ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u1	We shall begin with the Prime Minister's answer in the first term. I have agreed with Members that they will have three interruptions with one follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. I asked for the suspension of the debate on the offshore safety bill last week. I did so because of the responsibility I undoubtedly share with the members of the Chamber for the quality of legislation. The legislative proposal concerns the implementation of a European directive on the safety of oil and gas platforms at sea, following an extremely serious accident which occurred five years ago in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010. The Chamber has now come up with 15 amendments, most of which have in common that they are not about the legislative proposal. They are not about risk management and the preparation for emergency situations in the detection and extraction of oil and gas, but about the earthquake problem in Groningen. The cabinet attaches great importance to tackling the earthquake problem in Groningen in an energetic and careful manner. I note that at least there is no lack of speed in the Chamber. For example, in January, the Chamber asked me for a cabinet response to a leaked concept of the report of the Research Council for Security (OVV). That report was still being prepared and the recommendations were still lacking. It had not yet been established by the Research Council and therefore did not actually exist yet, but I had to come up with a response. In March, the Chamber called me for a debate on this report, while the cabinet response was not yet ready. Then I came up with that cabinet response, within six weeks instead of the legal deadline of six months. Last week, the Chamber responded with amendments to lay down parts of this reaction in legislation, while no debate on the cabinet response to that OVV report has taken place and I am still working on the relevant parts of my response. If I had not asked for a suspension last week after the first term of the Chamber, yesterday the Chamber had already voted on legal texts for which I was still doing my homework, on which there had been no internet consulation, which had not been dealt with in the Council of Ministers and on which the Council of State could not advise. I understand better than anyone that the Chamber wants to keep pace with the earthquake problem in Groningen, but I would ask the Chamber to give me the room to work things out carefully. We need to avoid rushing into laws that later turn out to be unworkable and repaired, or unpacking differently than we expected. Of course, I will do my part of the work with great speed, because I feel the urgency like the Chamber. As I announced in the cabinet response to the OVV report, I come in the course of this year with a coherent package of amendments to the Mining Act and with amendments to the related regulations. This package must address the social issues that we all know about mining activities. Part of that package is the balancing framework for authorisation and consent to the extraction plan, the involvement of other authorities in this process, which is also an important part of the opinion of the Security Research Council and a more independent position of State supervision of the Mines. I propose that the amendments that touch on the report of the Research Council for Security should be included in the legislative proposal that I will come up with for the elaboration and implementation of the cabinet response. In this way, I believe that we will come to good legislation together in a careful way. I also told the Chamber that I will act in line with the cabinet response, because it will take some time for the bill to come into force. This means, among other things, that I will happen to ask mining companies to carry out a risk analysis in new mining plans and to involve the provinces and the municipalities in advising on the extraction plans and changes to them. Then I come to the bill on offshore safety, which is now under discussion. The aim of the European Union directive is to reduce the risk of major accidents in the detection and extraction of oil and gas and to reduce the consequences, which can be very great as we saw in the Gulf of Mexico. Mrs Klever wondered what the added value of the new regulation was. The directive is already very much in line with Dutch practice, but the legislative proposal contains a number of new elements. For example, we need company policy on the prevention of major accidents. There should also be an independent verification scheme and a description of the safety and environmental management system. In particular, that independent verification is expected to lead to even fewer risks and incidents. There are already very few incidents in the North Sea. Under the bill, an independent expert must always look at the mining plant or drilling activity. This independent expert will examine the safety risks in particular. It is also new that environmental risks and their management should be taken into account in the report on major hazards. We already know this report and I will come back to this a number of times. The environmental risks and their management must therefore be taken into account, and therefore the risks and their management must be considered in advance. That is one of the essential elements of the legislative proposal. The Directive also lays down further requirements for the assessment of an application for a search or extraction permit. These relate to the applicant's technical and financial capacities and, in particular, to the ability to bear any liabilities arising from the search or extraction. The authorisation shall specify the means to be used by the holder of the authorisation. This shall be determined on a case-by-case basis and laid down in the permit conditions. This ensures that the holder of the authorisation is effectively able to bear any claims for damages arising from the detection or extraction of oil and gas. If he can't, he won't get a license. These new elements ensure that safety at and around mining installations on land and at sea in the Netherlands is even better safeguarded and that major accidents, such as the Gulf of Mexico disaster, are avoided as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u3	I was wondering whether the expert to look at the safety of the installations that are going to carry out inspections physically on the spot or whether this can be done by means of a paper inspection at the office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u4	I'll go into that expert later. I will also comment on the inspections carried out on the islands and in particular on the frequency of these inspections. I'll come back to it in great detail. Mrs van Tongeren asked about the difference between the measures applied on land and those in force at sea. Mr Bosman has also spoken about this. He indicated that he was able to follow the government's reasoning in this regard. That reasoning is as follows. In the legislative proposal, we have chosen to apply most of the measures that go under the directive for mining activities at sea to land immediately. The starting point is that this can contribute to further improvement on land. There are three exceptions. The first exception, or the first difference, is the applicability of the open preparatory procedure. That is the procedure under which participation and so on is regulated. It's different when it comes to country search permits. In the context of the Spatial Planning Act, the public preparation procedure is already being followed in the preparation of a land-based survey permit. I would like to go a little further on the questions put by Mr Smaling and Mrs Van Veldhoven about the difference that has been raised here. The second difference is the agreement of State supervision of the Mines to the report on major hazards for installations used for land mining activities. There is already an extensive ex ante review by State surveillance of the Mines of these land activities. I shall also go into this in a moment, in this case, in response to a question from Mrs Van Veldhoven. The third difference concerns certain measures which, by their nature, can only be applied at sea, such as a mandatory safety zone around mining installations in connection with shipping. Another example is measures for the evacuation and rescue of workers from a mining plant, which refers to an oil or gas platform. So these are the three differences. The first difference concerns the open preparation procedure. Mr Smaling and Mr Van Veldhoven have tabled two amendments on this subject: 18 and No. 19. The public preparatory procedure shall provide the parties concerned with an opportunity to submit views in the context of a draft decision. Those views will then be taken into account in the final decision. If interested parties do not agree with that decision, they may appeal to the Council of State, skipping the objection phase. In this way, this is entirely regulated by the separate preparation procedure. The directive means that it will not be possible to drill until there has been participation. As there is no need for further licences at sea before they can be drilled, there can also be no participation. According to the directive, and also because I am in favour of it, an opportunity must be created for this. That is the open preparation procedure that is now being laid down. On land an environmental permit is needed before you can drill. In the context of the granting of that environmental authorisation, the introduction of views and opposition to a decision has already been settled. It is therefore unnecessary to use this open preparation procedure when assessing a survey or extraction permit on land. Then you'll double what's already taken care of. That is why I do not recommend the amendments to No. 18 and No. 19. The second difference is the prior consent of SodM. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked why the report on major hazards does not require prior approval of State supervision of mines for land-based extraction plants. The report on major hazards is largely based on the system of health and safety documents in force in the Netherlands for many years. For this purpose, State supervision of the Mines has developed in recent years a form of system supervision based on the assessment of the documents submitted, experience with the company concerned and inspections prior to the putting into operation of installations and again shortly thereafter. On the basis of their own experience, on the basis of the assessment of the documents and on the basis of the inspection prior to the time when the case is to take place and then again, State supervision of the Mines is convinced that it is possible to obtain a good picture of the risks to the installation and also of the measures taken by the company to control those risks. The State surveillance of the Mines attaches great importance to the practical implementation and compliance of these documents after the assessment of these documents. The practical testing before and after the actual entry into service is important to him and therefore attention is given to this. In this way, the SodM is convinced that inspectors can be most effectively deployed. I now come to the independent verification. Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mrs Van Tongeren have asked questions about the independence of the independent verifier, as mentioned in the directive and the legislative proposal. Because the directive is very precise about this independence, when you are or are not, I have incorporated exactly what is in the directive into the legislative proposal on that point. The independent verification is important for improving the safety of mining works and mining activities. Not only is it necessary and compulsory to draw up this system, but it is also necessary to carry out this verification every time. Mining companies may choose to have that verification carried out by an external party. That's what companies are for, that's what they do well. However, they can also choose to place it within their own company. They are often large groups that have done very well. The government is also a very large group within which you have separate independent supervisors. So that's also settled with the big international mining companies. It will often be the large mining companies that are able to regulate the verifier's independence in such a way that they meet the criteria of independence. The smaller companies will not be able to do so easily. It is more obvious for them to engage an external party. We do not consider it important for which variant to be chosen as long as the independence of that verifier is guaranteed. In essence, it is important that the verifier within the company should not be involved in any way in the safety critical elements on which he should then have his views from the point of view of representing the safety interest. The SodM will continue to test the independence of that expert in practice. Moreover, regardless of the opinion of that independent expert, the director of the company remains responsible for safety. He also remains responsible for the health of his workers and for the protection of the environment. It is therefore very in its interest to adequately shape the independent verification and implement it in its company. Mrs Van Tongeren asked about the range of financial resources to be maintained by the holder of the authorisation. We have already discussed the need for them to retain this financial resources and she is asking what the band band is for. Under the bill, applicants for a search or extraction permit must have sufficient capacity to bear the liability. Each licence shall specify the means to be retained by the holder of the licence in the event of such extraction by that undertaking in order to fulfil those obligations. What amounts that should be, we're looking into right now. We are also looking at the United Kingdom, which already has a lot of experience with this. These amounts will then be recorded in the search and extraction permits issued after the legislative proposal enters into force. They therefore have no choice but to abide by it, because it is in those permit conditions. I would now like to turn to the amendments that have been tabled. There are four more of them here today. I got it shortly before this meeting. One of them is an amended amendment. I'll try to do it as best I can. The amendment in part No. 9 provides for the addition to the Mining Act of two grounds on which consent to a extraction plan may be refused. The amendment in part No. The aim is to broaden the scope to include interests other than efficient extraction and the prevention of damage, e.g. environmental protection, safety and public health, in the decision to grant a search or extraction authorisation and also in the consent decision to the extraction plan. Because the amendment to item No. 22 has been replaced by that in part No. 29 I will look at what else needs to be said about this later. As stated in the cabinet response to the report of the Research Council for Security, I think it is important that safety is mentioned in the Mining Act as an independent testing ground. That's not what it says right now. I'm looking into how best to do that. There are all sorts of things to be said about this. It's not just about safety, it's about other things. I'll see where that's settled, what's left with it and how best to do it. I'll be advised on that. I'm going to consult. I also get advice on this from the Council of State because I make it part of an overall package. I think it is very useful to do so and not to run for the troops in this way. That is why I do not recommend this amendment. I would ask the Chamber to give me an opportunity to work this out. The amendment in part No. 22 is because of that in part No. 29 have been replaced. A limited number of grounds are now mentioned in the Mining Act for refusing a search or extraction permit or consent to the extraction plan. The purpose of the amendment in respect of item No. 29 is to expand those possibilities. This amendment makes the granting of a search or extraction permit or the agreement to a extraction plan a broad social and political consideration. It must therefore be possible to involve interests such as water extraction or the environment. I've just responded to that. I think this is an important point. I recognise the desire to use a broader balancing framework for permits and extraction plans. I have also said this in the context of the debate on shale gas, but I would like to present it in conjunction with other amendments and to consult and advise on them. I think I can do it carefully that way. This amendment deals with one aspect, with several aspects. So although I support the idea behind this amendment, I would also advise against this by asking me to give me the opportunity to work this out properly and to ensure careful legislation in this way. In the amendment to item No. 10 provides that provinces and municipalities are given an advisory right in respect of the extraction plan, and that not only provinces but also municipalities are given an advisory right in granting authorisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u5	The amendment referred to by the Minister was partly motivated by the fact that the Secretary of State recently sent a letter to the Chamber in which she wrote that a licence to win salt should nevertheless be granted, despite the fact that the Chamber had asked by way of motion not to do so, just as paraphrasingly. A number of decisions are still pending in the field of licensing. That is why we have tabled this amendment, and I do not want to say that we want to see an urgent procedure now. Does the Minister understand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u6	Certainly, but Mr Vos must also realise that legislation requires care because of its impact. That means that if you have so far laid down something in legislation and you want to change it, it is good to get a picture of everything that is supposed to come into view. Then you should look at how best to formulate it, ask the field for advice and other stakeholders, consult the Council of Ministers, then ask the Council of State for advice, and then look into what else needs to be done. Then you have to change the law. However, as a result of a worrying experience for Mr Vos with one case to change the law quickly before we have had a good look at it, it is not the way to come up with careful legislation. Hence my opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u7	On the part of my group, there is a great deal of understanding that the Minister would like to deal with these amendments in conjunction with them after the summer recess. However, I would like to point out that the right of amendment still rests with the Chamber and that we would like to avoid having to deal with a situation in which a permit has to be granted, because there are no grounds for rejecting it; in my opinion, I have heard the Minister say that once again. Over the last few days, the Minister has been able to study them and we, together with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, have been thinking about this for a long time. We believe that we have dealt with it carefully. We hope that this will make it possible in future to assess licensing more widely in society than has been the case so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u8	It is not just the aspect that is now being raised. It concerns the whole of the issues at stake. Mr Vos has thought about this and he has a view on it, but we have agreed with each other that we will release internet consultation on a legislative proposal to see how the field reacts and what arguments are put forward from the field. The Council of State must also talk about this and the Cabinet would like to talk about it and have an opinion on it. I do not come up with anything like that if there is one amendment; then I do not have the right to refer it to the Chamber. However, if there are 15 amendments to all kinds of parts, I think we should look carefully at the care taken by the legislation. This is one part of it. If you are going to change the grounds on which you can refuse, then I think it is important to do so in the way I have just outlined and not in the way that this amendment is going.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u9	The Minister rightly notes that the Chamber has taken the opportunity to amend the Mining Act. This shows that there is a very strong desire within the Chamber to make changes. The Minister has not yet done so. I would remind the Minister of the Van Tongeren and others motion adopted. of 11 November 2013, which asks precisely this: "Whereas the grounds for granting authorisation are limited in the current law and do not meet the current major interests in mining, both underground and above ground, the Government requests that an amendment of the Mining Act be prepared'. At that time, the Minister actually gave us the same texts as this evening: give me a moment to prepare these changes carefully, in conjunction with each other. That was in November 2013. Now it's almost mid-2015 and the Minister asks the Chamber to do the same again. My group would therefore like to know from the Minister why the interim period has not been used to do what the Minister intends to do from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u10	What I am about to do is respond to what has been put forward by the Security Research Council. We have accepted the recommendations and are convinced that it must be done, and that it must be done in conjunction. There's been a flow of legislation from my ministry to the Chamber. There is no shortage of proposals; of everything and what had to be done. We believe that it is very sensible to do everything in this connection in conjunction. This coherence is based on the advice of the Security Research Council. I am already working on that and will make it for each other as soon as possible. I will have gone through this whole procedure this year and come to the Chamber with the proposal. That's what I can do in reasonable terms. Looking back, too, I think it would be wise to establish at this point that I am working on it, that I am doing it in conjunction and that the Chamber will have a proposal this year. I think it would be wise to wait and not take out one part of it and now amend it by law. In fact, I say one part, but this evening there are fifteen parts which require amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u11	Those 15 amendments therefore show that part of the Chamber considers that the Minister did not accept all the proposals made by the Chamber. Since November 2013, the Minister has had time to carefully prepare and submit it to the Chamber. The Minister hasn't done that so far, so now the Chamber is coming. The Minister did not answer my question as to what was investigated between November 2013 and now. I would like to know from the Minister what the major objections are, for example, to the Van Tongeren/Jan Vos amendment or the Jan Vos/Van Tongeren amendment. What would be the major objection to the rule of law or to the implementation of that Mining Act to include these amendments? In the meantime, the Minister can continue to work out the plans carefully. There's plenty to do in Groningen. In any case, we have established that there are more grounds for rejection. Also municipalities, water boards and provinces finally have an anchored role in the Mining Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u12	Mrs Van Tongeren says: now comes the Chamber. But the care that is required of me must also be demanded from the Chamber. The Chamber comes with changes regarding the role of the municipalities and the province. I already do that in practice, but Mrs Van Tongeren wants to lay it down in the law. Here is also a part of which it says it should be laid down in the law. If you want to do this kind of thing carefully, you have to do it within the framework of the Structure Vision Underground that is currently being worked on. With regard to the Structure Vision Underground plays a lot and you have to look at all this in conjunction. I have drawn the conclusion from the report of the Research Council for Security that I cannot wait for it, because it takes a little longer than the road I have just outlined. I think we should do this separately, following the report of the Security Research Council. It is wise to do so in conjunction, because then you can assess it in conjunction, you can consult the field, you can ask the Council of State for advice and you can talk to ministers who are involved in it. That's careful, and I'm in favour of that. That is why I am voting in favour of the amended amendment. 29, which I just discussed, didn't recommend.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u13	The Minister calls for care. However, he also hears the concern in the Chamber that between now and the moment when we discuss an integral package, permits are granted on the basis of the old situation for activities that a majority in the Chamber says they want to. What is the Minister's understanding of that broad feeling in the Chamber? He asks the Chamber for care and delay, but how is he going to take that into account in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u14	The old situation concerns the law that we have established with each other and which is currently in force. We have to abide by that; so do I. Change a law, you don't do afternoon. We all know that. If you want to do it carefully, you won't do it in a few months. That is why I have chosen this path ahead of the Structural Vision Underground, but responding to the report of the Research Council for Security. That is the path we can reasonably take now. Until then, I will apply the law. That is not irresponsible, because that is a law that has been in force for many years and can continue to be applied until the amendment is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u15	I'm sure the Minister doesn't want to accuse the Chamber of carelessness. He himself indicated that he intends to act in the spirit of some of the comments made, for example in the report of the Security Research Council. What then prevents him from acting on other points in the spirit of what is widespread in the Chamber? I am thinking, for example, of the fact that the issue of a licence can no longer be based solely on the economic viability of the gas. Why does he not say that he will consider such aspects or that he will at least try to give as little new permits as possible until the Court has taken a decision on them, knowing that a large part of the Chamber wants to change them and the Minister himself acknowledges that this is actually the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u16	I agree with Mrs Van Veldhoven. I think that's how it's gonna be. It is not just the economic feasibility on the basis of which it is decided. There's more. I think I have to do what is possible to make the broader consideration that I think is desirable, to involve and act on several aspects. I will look into the possibilities for this and I will make the most of them. In addition, I will try to get the amendments I mentioned, that coherent package, to the Chamber as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u17	The Minister wants to be careful. That's what's good for him. That's what we want. However, a little unwittingly the suggestion is raised as if the Minister were careful and much of the Chamber was not. Is that due to an incompatibilité d'humour? Or is it too busy because of the hecticness of Groningen and the complexity of the energy agreement and is it at the Minister's pace? Are we too fast or is the department too slow? I see some kind of mismatch between the Minister and the Chamber. That also unnecessarily influences the atmosphere. My question to the Minister is: how can we improve this without all these amendments being parked or discouraged?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u18	I won't say the room's too fast, but she's fast. If a draft report is leaking that has not yet been adopted and does not yet contain any recommendations and if you want a cabinet response right away, then you are very quick. If then that report comes and I am working hard with a cabinet response and if you call me to the Chamber before I am finished with that, then you are very quick. If I come up with the cabinet response and say 'I'm going to change that and I'm going to work with it' and if you set it out in amendments before I can do my job, then you are very fast. The Chamber is not alone the legislator. The government is, too. That is why I am also talking to you to see if we can perhaps move in together. That's what I'm trying to do. I think that has also been demonstrated by the reaction I just gave to Mrs Van Veldhoven's interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u19	We are representatives of the people. What is going on in Groningen affects us all: the Minister, the Chamber and the Groningers most. This, of course, creates the dynamics, including in the Chamber, that people want things to be arranged quickly. It's not just about the gas extraction in the Groningen field. There is a kind of general fear in the country of any intervention, above ground or underground, all those small fields, and from salt extraction to sand extraction. That is something we are concerned about in the Chamber. We feel that this gives more fear and uncertainty in the country than in the past. This, I think, requires perhaps a different pace or a more inviting way from the Minister to the Chamber to find solutions together with a certain speed. Is that how he sees it? Or is that unfeasible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u20	I am very willing to do so, but if the House puts something into the law by means of an amendment, then it is legally established and I am done. If that means that I cannot finish the work I am doing, that I cannot do it in conjunction, that I cannot discuss it in the Council of Ministers, that I cannot ask for the opinion of the Council of State and that, as agreed with each other, I do not think we can do it carefully. You can be a representative of the people and still act in legislation as I have just advocated. I think that can go very well together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u21	The great earthquake at Huizinge was in 2012. The Parliamentary Motion requesting amendments to the Mining Act was adopted in 2013. The Minister cannot therefore accuse the Chamber of "too fast" or "too heavy" if the Chamber seizes the opportunity to change the law in 2015. There's something else I'd like to know from the Minister. He says that the law is still like this, and that is what we have to do, but I am going to act in the spirit of all the amendments that have been tabled this evening. But how is he going to do that in the direction of the mining organizations, which say: the law just states that I can get a permit on these grounds, so I want to drill? How can the Minister say, without having great financial implications for the State, that I have the deal with the Chamber that we are already acting in the spirit of amendments which I have asked the Chamber to consider whether they can be put on the shelf for another year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u22	In general, mining companies have a great interest in a good, constructive relationship with the government. Furthermore, Mrs Van Tongeren says that in 2012 there was a major earthquake at Huizinge and now we finally come up with that amendment. However, there is absolutely no such relationship. I can do a lot with regard to the gas extraction in Groningen. I really don't need that amendment for that. The volume of gas extraction has been reduced a few times. We've already reversed gas extraction in the core area by 80%. We have established upper limits in the different sub-areas. We are now discussing further reductions, on which a decision could be taken on 1 July or a decision could be taken on 1 January. All this is possible on the basis of the extraction plan and mining decisions that I have to take. I have already said that the mining organisations have an interest in a constructive relationship with the government. This is also apparent, for example, from the shale gas file. There were also permits for this. I froze that case in consultation with the mining companies. Then we're going to do research to see what our policies are going to be for the future. So I think it is quite possible to act as much as possible in the spirit of what we are doing now, as Mrs Van Veldhoven has asked. We must therefore act as much as possible in the spirit shown by the opinion of the Security Research Council, by my input and, in particular, by the contributions of the spokesmen. I have already said that I am prepared to do my best to do so and to try to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u23	All the directors of the provinces, municipalities and water boards and the people at the water companies and the ordinary people in Groningen, with whom we have spoken a lot in recent years, but also the people in Boxtel and Terschelling do not feel that everything will be okay and that we can wait a while. The minister acts in the spirit of what has been agreed, but those people are at the mercy of the water. They're expecting something from us. You hear that and you read it all the time. The Hague, do something! Politics, do something! Tonight there are several amendments which are in line with the opinion of the Security Research Council. I expect the Minister to say that he can embrace some of the amendments because he wants to go that way too. I want him to say that he understands the urgency in Groningen and that something needs to change now. I want him to understand that it is not possible to postpone all of this for another six, eight or ten months. Does the Minister understand that there is now a real urgency? It's three years after the big quake in Huizinge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u24	How can Mrs Van Tongeren say that it is time to do something? What have we done over the past two and a half years? We've set up the largest investigation in the world into earthquakes caused by gas extraction. We have brought together all the experts who are there. We have taken far-reaching decisions. We have twice concluded an administrative agreement with the authorities in the area. We've made huge sums available. We have set up separate organisations that are now going to tackle the large-scale strengthening of houses and other buildings. A huge compensation organisation has been set up and I will tell you about it later. It is, of course, a mistake to say that it is now finally time to do something and that this amendment is the answer. It's absolutely not like that. The Security Research Council has said that a number of things need to change. I said I want to do that. I'm doing it in conjunction, in a responsible way and as soon as possible. In the intervening period I try to act in that spirit as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u25	I'm curious what "as much action as possible in the spirit of" means. That question has already been asked, but there is no clear answer. It cannot be that the Minister is surprised at what the Chamber intends to amend to the Mining Act when reading the amendments that have been tabled. We have had a lot of debates on this. I wonder where it comes from that the Minister says today that he would like to act in the spirit of the wishes of the Chamber. Then why do we not have a comprehensive analysis of what that means today? How hard is such a commitment? Then what can we hold on to? What can the people who face new drilling plans in their living environment rely on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u26	Of course I'm not surprised. I have described what the amendments say in the cabinet response. I'm gonna do some things on a couple of points. I do so according to the procedure that applies. I'm ahead of the Structure Vision Underground. The report of the Research Council for Security is now there and I embrace the recommendations. That's why I'm going to realize that as soon as possible. I am therefore absolutely not surprised because I myself have indicated what needs to be done. We are now looking at this in conjunction and developing it further. We also follow the procedure, which is not for nothing. Therefore, I do not think it is wise to introduce this in amendments at the outset. I do not think that this is in line with the best possible care that the Chamber and I are pursuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u27	The spokesman for the D66 Group asked whether the Minister could act in the spirit of the amendments. That's what the Minister wanted. What does that mean? So what specific commitment do we have in our hands? What reason does the Chamber have for saying that the Minister has a point there? Because until now, the Minister has really shown nothing of that. Not so long ago the plans for gas drilling came out at Terschelling. Then the Animal Party tabled a motion asking whether the Minister could freeze those permits. The answer was simply no. But it is one of the questions that the Minister is now saying: I might well act in the spirit of the amendments that have been tabled. So far, however, he has not shown any evidence of this. So what are we supposed to base ourselves on when he says he's gonna do it from now on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u28	I have already indicated that in the shale gas dossier I have managed to freeze the permits that were issued and to ensure that we first carry out the research that we consider desirable. I have also already indicated to the Chamber that I will involve municipalities and provinces in the decision-making process, in anticipation of what will soon be the subject of the Mining Act, which I estimate will be amended. If there is an opportunity on other parts to act in the spirit of the forthcoming amendment, I will do so as far as possible, as I promised Mrs Van Veldhoven. Exactly what that means, I have to look at it. I think that this is quite something: to anticipate the Structural Vision Underground, to come up with a coherent package as soon as possible and to see how to anticipate it as much as possible in a responsible way. I'll do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u29	I hear the Minister and at the same time I feel the urgency of the others. We supported the motion referred to by Mrs Van Tongeren. The Minister could have examined a number of issues very proactively at the Council of State. The same applies to the reverse burden of proof. That didn't happen. Why not, I don't know. Perhaps the Minister will be able to comment on this later. But he can also choose to simply accept the amendments he feels about in principle and, if necessary, to amend the Mining Act. That could be a route, couldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u30	That's not a route for me. I am not going to accept any amendments because the House wants to do so, and then look at how it can be done best and then change them again. If I did, that would really be a textbook example of careless legislation. I'm definitely not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u31	This presupposes that amendments have now been tabled by the Chamber which would not be careful. I'm having trouble with that. Although the amendments have not been tabled by me, I note that this is something that strikes me. I think, perhaps, in the second term, the Minister could take a look at what he thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u32	I can say the same in the first term. If you're going to change legislation, I think it's wise that you prepare it carefully. That's why we've agreed procedures with each other. It's not like the minister's gonna change a law for a second. This is done by the Council of Ministers, by the government, including the Head of State. Before we decide to do so, an internet consultation is first done. Prior to this consultation, the ministries must consult each other and we must ensure that we do justice to our actual administrative advice. After the Council of Ministers, it goes to the Council of State. After that, it will return to the Council of Ministers, and then there will be a proposal to the House of Representatives. That's careful legislation. If I announce on a number of points that we must do so, in conjunction with and as soon as possible, then I do not think it is careful to lay down the possible outcome in a law at the beginning of the process. Certainly not when it is said by me, as co-legislator, that things are not complete, that they need to be looked at in conjunction and that it can be done in a different way, namely as I have just described. That is my assessment of the way in which we, as co-legislators, should deal with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u33	If I see this discussion going on like this, I think we are heading towards a situation that may not please either the Minister or the Chamber. We would not be happy if the Minister would turn back a lot of things later on in a letter of amendment. We all benefit from a good and coherent package. But if the Minister cannot indicate how he can act in concrete terms in line with the feelings that clearly live, that does not satisfy the Chamber either. I have an almost technical question. Suppose the House adopted the amendments. Is there anything else until the entry into force of the law which would enable the Minister to do some of the consultations which he rightly attaches value to?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u34	The question is how is it going to proceed with the legislative proposal that has been amended in fifteen places. I should check that out. The government is a co-legislator, the Chamber is a co-legislator, so we both need to be able to take responsibility. I will have to look at what it looks like and how the further procedure should be going, but I would very much regret this. We have joined forces to make a Structural Vision Underground, to do justice to the report of the Research Council for Security, to come up with a legislative proposal as soon as possible, to act as much as reasonably possible in the spirit of forthcoming changes, of which I have already indicated a few points on which I am doing so. I think it would be much wiser to continue along this road. It's not like that's gonna last forever. It's now the middle of April. If the Second and First Chambers were to act quickly and the Council of State would also want to act quickly with an urgent opinion, we could ask that as a Council of Ministers, then it is possible to have a legislative proposal with the Chamber at the earliest in mid-October. All the things I have just discussed can then be presented to the Chamber in an orderly manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u35	The Minister belongs in the Chamber to the urgency, the desire to clarify quickly to the people of Groningen. This concerns a number of points, for example the grounds on which an authorisation may be amended. It's an old wish of the Chamber. The Minister indicated earlier that he will see what he can do to act in that spirit. The question has been asked a few times: Minister, what can you do in concrete terms? Suppose there's a permit application to Terschelling tomorrow. Can the Minister include these other grounds, or can he not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u36	Mrs Van Veldhoven talks about Groningen, but there are no new permits. In Groningen, the issue is that according to the existing permits a extraction plan must be drawn up. I have to agree with that extraction plan and then have all the room to do what I have done recently and would like to do in the near future. This part of the discussion is therefore of no benefit to Groningers. For other applications, we have introduced careful procedures into the law. They have been established and then regularly adapted. That is a careful procedure, but we want to do it in a different way. That's the way I'm preparing right now, in line with the advice of the Security Research Council. I would like to do so in an orderly manner to ensure that these changes are made as soon as possible. What is possible in the meantime within the existing law, in consultation with relevant companies or in any other way to anticipate that new situation, I will explore. I'll inform the Chamber about those possibilities. That way, I will act until the appropriate law comes into force. I am prepared to consider exactly what is possible at this point and to let the Chamber know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u37	Please continue with the examination of the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u38	I was working on the subject of "independent verification." This independent verification is important for safety. I have indicated how this independent expertise can be completed, either externally or internally. There are criteria for this and the SodM will check what happens. I have already said something about the range of financial resources to be maintained by the licence holder. I am getting back together, because I had already completed this point. I had started with the amendment to item No. 9. Then I have the amendment to item No. 22 treatment. Secondly, I have the amended amendment to item No. 29 discussed. I come to the amendment to item No. 10, which regulates that provinces and municipalities are given an advisory right in respect of the extraction plan and that municipalities are given an advisory right in addition to the provinces when granting the authorisation. The amendment in part No. 23 regulates that provinces, municipalities and water boards may provide advice on permits and extraction plans under the Mining Act. In addition, the amendment lays down a duty to state reasons for the Minister's deviation from these opinions. I would like to make two comments to this effect, following the discussion that has just taken place. I believe that municipalities and provinces should be properly involved in the decision whether or not to agree to a extraction plan. I'm working that out right now. I will, because I have that opportunity, also in that way deal with the provinces and municipalities. My second comment concerns the obligation to state reasons. Under the General Administrative Law there is already a duty to state reasons in the event of a deviation from advice. That is why it is not necessary to arrange it separately here. That is why I have tabled the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. 10 and 23 detachment. The amendment in part No. 18 ensures that the open preparation procedure for marine situations also applies to applications for survey permits on land. The amendment in part No. 19 provides that this procedure shall also apply to applications for permits to search and extract all minerals and geothermal energy on land and at sea. As I said earlier, a substantive preparation procedure has already been provided for in the environmental permit on land. It takes place before it can be drilled. It is therefore unnecessary to establish a public preparation procedure when assessing a survey or extraction permit on land, in addition to what has already been arranged. That is why I reject both amendments. The amendment in part No. 21 shall ensure that no new authorisations for mining activities are granted for sites with Natura 2000 status, the Wadden region or a World Heritage Site. The amendment in part No. 24 provides for no new authorisations for mining activities for sites with Natura 2000 status. I was just talking about the Structure Vision Underground. In particular, my colleague from I and M and I are preparing them. It looks at the question of where mining activities can take place in a responsible manner, taking into account all other interests involved in the subsurface and what is happening directly above it. There will be a wide-ranging consideration, including the specific areas mentioned in the amendment. I therefore advise against this amendment, which anticipates the careful consideration for which this Structural Vision is intended. We have also set up a large legislative process here in order to be able to make a careful assessment. It seems very important to me to do the same in this case. Several members have asked about the formation and capacity of State supervision of the Mines. State surveillance is an organisation with 60 formation sites, including 45 for inspectors. They supervise the exploration, extraction and aftercare involved in the extraction of minerals. In order to carry out the additional tasks arising from the implementation of the directive we are discussing tonight, the organisation of the SodM has been extended by two formation sites. Furthermore, the SodM has also received additional budget for the hiring of two drilling specialists. As pointed out in my response to the OVV report, State surveillance is currently working on an improvement plan which also looks closely at the capacity and competences needed to do the job properly. There are 60 formation sites, 45 of which are intended for inspectors. Two places will be added, because two specialists can be hired. further, the SodM will examine what should be even more important in terms of capacity and competences. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked about the use of capacity and resources of State surveillance on the Mines both on land and at sea. The Netherlands has 150 mining installations at sea and 600 on land. The installations at sea are usually more complex and this is the reason why the distribution is not entirely 150/600, but that roughly one third of the use of State surveillance is directed at activities at sea and two thirds at activities on land. Mrs Van Tongeren asked if State surveillance is able to inspect all wells. Mrs Mulder also asked questions about this. State surveillance works with system oversight. It will verify how the company has anchored control of the integrity of the wells in its healthcare system. Let me say a few words about the distinction between wells and drilling installations. If you're gonna start with something, you're gonna need a drilling plant first. When that drilling is over, the pipes are in the ground and the oil or gas can be extracted, it's a well. A good anchoring in the care system provides the best guarantee that the company applies this widely to all its wells. So it does not make much sense to go from well to well and to check that they are doing well. According to State supervision, you have to check whether the whole company is organised in such a way that it deals with these matters in a good way and that it applies this good way to all wells. This is assessed in practice by means of samples. The 45 state surveillance inspectors plan 500 inspections every year. In view of the risks involved, drilling platforms are given the highest priority. State surveillance aims to visit drilling facilities at sea and on land, where work is therefore being done to unlock a field, on average five times a year. In the case of special work or problems, this frequency shall be increased. Mrs Van Veldhoven noted that the legislative proposal I have now announced required many reports to be drawn up. It asked whether State surveillance, in addition to the assessment of these reports, would also carry out additional inspections. It referred to the reports to be drawn up on the basis of the implementation of the directive now before us. Her question was whether, apart from assessing the reports, there will be additional inspections to see if it all makes sense in practice. State surveillance inspects installations on the basis of the risks involved. In doing so, it uses an inspection frequency per installation, where the installations with the highest risks are of course the highest frequency. Where appropriate, such as specific risks, experiences elsewhere in the world, special activities or complaints from local residents, additional inspections will be carried out. Ms Van Tongeren asked about the roadmap to make information available in State surveillance more accessible to the public. I think it's useful that that happens. State surveillance is therefore working on a communication plan. An important part of this is that the available information is made available to the public. That communication plan will be ready by the summer. Mr Smaling and Mrs Mulder asked why only 30% of the costs of State supervision are passed on to companies. Mr Bosman, on the other hand, stressed the need to keep costs as low as possible. We have chosen in the legislative proposal to pass on the costs of the main parts of the directive. These are the assessments of the so-called reports on major hazards, which I have already mentioned, the assessment of notifications and the advice on licence applications. This means that costs for tasks of general interest are not passed on. Costs directly related to a company and to a permit will be passed on. This is in line with the opinion of the Council of State, which pointed out on this point that supervision is also of public interest. I quote the Council of State: 'The principle of profit cannot, in this sense, justify the total abolition of the public contribution'. We have therefore chosen in the legislative proposal to calculate only those costs which are clearly reduced to the activities of individual companies. In this way we also remain exactly within the cabinet policy, which has been based for years on passing on costs as laid down in the Maat report. That is why I do not recommend the amendment tabled by Mr Smaling in respect of item No. 15, which aims to pass on to mining undertakings the costs of all tasks carried out under the Directive. Moreover, the rate of 30% will increase in the future if tasks of the SodM which are not covered by the Directive but should be passed on according to the same system are also passed on. This includes advice from State surveillance to Economic Affairs. If we want to grant authorization, we ask for advice. It's an individual company. Those costs of State supervision will then also be passed on. Mrs Mulder asked how many confidential reports have been received by State surveillance. She asked for that to be specified per year. I've looked into the years 2013 and 2014. The number is zero. However, non-confidential notifications were received in 2013 and 2014. In 2013 there were 11 and in 2014 there were 15. In these notifications, the reporters did not ask for confidentiality. Ms Mulder indicated that state surveillance should request approval from the Ministry of Economic Affairs to conduct investigations. She asked me to go into this. I can say that state supervision is free to use the research capacity of TNO and the KNMI without my intervention and without any costs. This is largely financed by us. That's why State surveillance can use that, beyond me, as much as it needs it. In addition, State surveillance also has its own budget to have investigations carried out by third parties. In order to increase research opportunities for mining activities, including research by and on behalf of SodM, I started, in accordance with the recommendation of the Research Council for Security, to set up a structural and independent research programme. We've already talked about this. I'm busy working this out, in line with the recommendation I've adopted. In the Groningen dossier, State surveillance advises on the basis of its own research and also on the basis of research that it has had carried out. I do not have any substantive interference with that. I've never had one, and I don't want one either. Moreover, there is also an evaluation of its own organisation within State surveillance at the moment, looking at knowledge development, research, risk analysis and risk assessment. It also examines the views to be expressed on this subject, including for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u39	I thought I'd wait until the minister's done. It is good to hear that there are so few complaints and that, if there are complaints, the nature of the complaints will be examined immediately. I suppose they'll be solved, too. Perhaps the Minister could comment briefly on that. Has it been dealt with; do these complaints not lie? Last night we had a round table. It pointed out, both by the current director of State supervision of the Mines and by the previous director, that there had indeed been situations in which the use of the KNMI and of TNO had been insufficient. Can the Minister rule out the possibility that things will go wrong again in this area in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u40	I think it would be useful to take this point of interest from Mrs Mulder. I can only repeat what I have just said, namely that State surveillance can have the capacity of TNO and the KNMI without any charges being charged. If Mrs Mulder asks me to see if there are any incidents, I will do so. Mrs Mulder's other point was about the complaints and how they are handled. I will see if on another occasion when it comes to State surveillance, perhaps in the annual report, I can give the Court an insight into how complaints are handled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u41	Thank you for these commitments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u42	I have already made clear how State surveillance has acted in the Groningen file and I have nothing to do with that. I have also indicated that there is an evaluation within State surveillance with regard to its own organisation and the aspects I mentioned. Mrs Van Tongeren asked whether other possibilities for the independence of State supervision were also considered. She mentioned an independent administrative body, an agency and moved to another ministry. It is not necessary for the independent operation of State supervision to be otherwise positioned. Monitoring is the most important task of the SodM and that does not require ZBO status. Supervisors within the Empire can and usually are part of the Ministry. The NVWA, the Inspection Environment and Transport are not ZBO but are excellent supervisors; independent and well positioned. I intend to strengthen the independence of State surveillance by amending the Mining Act. At the moment, the existence of State supervision is laid down by law, but what is and cannot be done can also be laid down by law. That's what I'm preparing for right now. That brings me to the amendment to item No. 11. This is intended to make State surveillance a ZBO. There should be no doubt about the independence of State supervision. Apart from the question of whether it is desirable to pour it into the form of a ZBO, it is certainly not careful to do so. A law aimed at achieving a ZBO absolutely requires further elaboration and detailing. For example, the appointment, period of dismissal and legal status of the inspector-general should be regulated when a ZBO is established. Let the Chamber await my proposals for strengthening the independence of the SodM, then consider whether or not it can agree and, if necessary, tell me how otherwise it should be arranged in an orderly manner. In advance of that, I would advise against making an amendment to the effect that it will become a Zbo. I therefore also recommend the amendment to item No. 11. I come to the reversal of the burden of proof. The settlement of damages is organised in Groningen in such a way that in practice the reversal of the burden of proof is not, or hardly, relevant. In my opinion, that is the way it should be. It is not disputed that houses and other buildings in Groningen are damaged by earthquakes and that these earthquakes were caused by gas extraction. It is, however, a question of ensuring that the damage is reimbursed quickly and correctly. That's what's gonna happen. The NAM is liable for the damage, even if that company has not made mistakes and complied with all the rules. We call that liability. We've already taken care of that. We have placed the damage handling remotely from the NAM, at Centrum Safe Living, so CVW. That's under independent supervision again. Someone who has damage will contact Centrum Safe Living. That sends an expert. He can make an offer to compensate for the damage within eight weeks. So far, offers from Centrum Safe Living have been accepted by the disadvantaged in 92% of the cases, according to it. In 4% of cases, a counter-expertise has been requested. At any time, even if they do not agree with something, the Technical Committee on Soil Movement, Tcbb, can be included. So if an application is rejected because there would be no connection, the Tcbb can be called in to rule on it. If one does not agree with another step in the process, one can also call the Tcbb. In 92% of the cases, however, the offer of Centrum Safe Living is accepted. If that does not happen, a counter-expertise can be requested. Those who wish to do so can do so by using the expert they wish to do so. The bill for this is paid by Centrum Secure Living. If anyone doesn't agree with those two valuations, they can ask the Tcbb to issue binding advice to Centrum Secure Living. So an expert immediately goes to make an offer if the damage is accepted. If anyone disagrees, they can apply for a counter-expertise immediately. In the meantime, if there is any discussion about the cause, which is not usually the case, the Tcbb can be enabled. If there is no consensus after that counter-expertise, then the Tcbb can rule. Centrum Secure Wonen considers that ruling as a binding opinion and follows it up. Last year the Tcbb was asked for advice in nine cases. This year the counter is also at nine. In addition to the process described here, there may be specific cases. He may refer a mayor to the Special Situations Committee. It has a separate budget and in the extreme it can say that a property must be bought up. This is then binding, in this case for the NAM, who makes the purchase. In four cases, this has indeed led to the purchase of a property. If, in the opinion of those concerned, something has not gone well, then they can also go to the Independent Councilman. He'll look into it. We have all arranged this in such a way that the outcome is that not once has anyone called the judge. The image that Mrs Ouwehand sketches, namely that disadvantaged people must learn to get compensation for their damage, is therefore quite wrong. I don't think it's good to say things like that either. Perhaps I should point out that in 70% of all cases where the damage is compensated, people choose to be paid in money. People can choose that the damage is repaired by a certified contractor on behalf of the Centrum Secure Living. They may also employ a contractor themselves; that account will then be paid by the Centre for Safe Living. In 70% of cases, people do not choose to do so, but are paid out in cash.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u43	Many people in Groningen have been calling and e-mailing MPs for years because they are not getting out because their damage is not being repaired. That is why the Chamber asked the Minister by way of motion for a Groninger gas ombudsman, which the Minister consistently calls the independent councillor. That counsel has sent a report for the year 2014. That report states that 655 people in Groningen are waiting more than a year for complex damage to be dealt with. No agreement was reached with the NAM on this. Those people are waiting for that. So I would like to highlight the presentation of things that the Minister is now presenting in a different way. I think that, among other things, because of these people, we would like to bring about the reversal of the burden of proof in the law. People are desperate and drowning in bureaucracy, which may not make their daily lives more conscious, but does not make them more enjoyable, even though they already have to live in a badly damaged home.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u44	I very much agree with Mr Vos that it is very important and that the people of Groningen are fully entitled to have all the damage they cause as a result of the earthquakes compensated properly and quickly. I am very aware of that. I am also aware that this has been difficult at first. In the beginning there were not many reports of damage, but after the earthquake in Huizinge the number has increased enormously. We had 30,000 claims until the end of last year. In the first three months of this year a further 9 000 notifications have been received. So we're almost at 40,000 by now. A large number of damages are reported. That is why we have dealt with the whole issue. We have set up a separate organization, the Safe Living Centre. It was removed from the NAM and independently monitored. This organization is now in the process of dealing with the damage. As a result, people's satisfaction has grown considerably. Right now, I'm fine. I have already said that they have set the case up at the Safe Living Centre in such a way that they are able to come forward with an offer within eight weeks in response to a damage report. If there is a delay afterwards, it is often because people take the time to look at the offer, to discuss what they are going to do with it and to make their decision. So we are not going to let things go through the courts and we are not doing legal things about the burden of proof, but we are trying to get people to get the compensation they are entitled to because of the damage they have suffered. There are complex cases; that is certainly true. Mr Vos has drawn attention to this earlier. He told me that he wants all these complex cases to be dealt with before the end of 2015. I told him this is gonna happen. I can also tell him that so far we are on our way to making that happen. The complex cases that have been there for a long time are not so much more than Mr Vos's reporting of the Independent Councilman is now working at a rapid pace. The NAM has assured me that these cases will also be dealt with before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u45	That report is from February. It concerns 655 people who do not have an agreement at the moment, while they have been waiting for it for more than a year; that is an extra nuance that you can add to it. You can also shake off a number of other numbers, but I'll leave it at that. Since I asked for that before the end of the year, I have only received more e-mails. I note that in the past period, since the reversal of the burden of proof, I have been told by the Minister that he is not in favour of the Minister's understanding of the arguments. The NAM also tells me that she is not in favour of the NAM's understanding of the arguments. However, many citizens in Groningen have emailed and called me to say that they would be very happy with the reverse burden of proof. They ask me to stand firm in order to achieve this, because it is important to them. That is why I am presenting the amendment today as a representative of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u46	When people say it's important to them, that doesn't mean it's important by definition. It doesn't mean that it has to be laid down in the law by definition. You do people justice if you pay for their damage quickly and correctly. You don't do them justice by letting cases go to court and settling the reversal of the burden of proof in court. It's much better to make sure the judge doesn't show up. You have to make sure that the whole case is organized so that people are done justice and that they don't have to go to court. The reversal of the burden of proof does not need to be discussed at all. Mr Vos says that people are waiting a year and longer. We have therefore made the scheme so that an expert goes immediately after an injury report. If you don't agree with the outcome, you can hire another expert on behalf of the Centre Safe Living. If you disagree with that second damage expert, then you can go to the Technical Committee on Soil Movement. That committee comes with an opinion that is binding on the Centre for Safe Living. That is the end of the matter and it simply needs to be paid out. You can also think about things about that. We have set up the Special Situations Committee, which has a budget of 15 million for a period of three years. This committee has already said in a number of cases that the property must be purchased. The NAM is obliged to carry out the committee's advice and purchase the property. That's what's gonna happen. It is precisely our responsibility to ensure that we make good the damage properly and quickly. We've taken care of that now. Let's see what opportunities there are left to further improve that. I am very willing to address any reasonable possibility of further improving the procedure. I am thinking, for example, of the arbitration that now lies with the Technical Committee on Soil Movement, but which you can also organise in a different way. That's what I'm looking at. If there are other things on the agenda, I will look at them and if they lead to an improvement in the procedure, I will be happy to amend them. If I thought reversal of the burden of proof would help, I'd let the Chamber know. As I have just said, I believe it is in the interests of the people of Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u47	What the Minister says is only part of the reality. I would like to support Mr Vos. I also get emails from all sides from Groningen, from inside and outside the damage contour lines. A lot of people don't get to judge at all. They have long before been so demotivated and have such a Kafkaesque feeling about what happened to them. For example, people have received a real estate report stating that the house is in good condition, there will be a quake and the first expert says that the damage was caused by late maintenance. If they already go for counter-expertise, there is a considerable gap between the first and second experts. Do those people who are despondent and distraught still have to go to the Tcbb? That's part of the reality, isn't it? Can't you influence that by making the corridor to the judge much more attractive?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u48	I do not think it is in the interest of the people in Groningen that the corridor to the judge be made more attractive. I think we absolutely shouldn't want this. The judge must always be there, of course. If anyone wants to go to court, they can do it. It's our responsibility to do it right and to make sure the judge doesn't get involved. I think it's a very neat procedure. If there's any damage in Groningen, we assume the damage was caused by earthquakes. We'll send a damage expert there right away to take the damage. If the damage has been established, it will be properly compensated. People can say: we do not agree. Then there's the counter-expertise. It could also be said that you have come up with this damage report, but that is not because of the earthquakes. Then we'll bring in the Tcbb's expert. Once there are two reports, it is important that there is no ambiguity about it and that we do not keep talking. Then a knot has to be cut. That knot can now be cut by the Tcbb with a binding advice. Moreover, this binding rule applies only to the Centre for Safe Living, because the citizen is not bound by anything. If he doesn't agree with the Tcbb's ruling, he can still go to court. That will not happen, however. I think we should strive to do so that way. You call the Tcbb. I think the Tcbb is the right authority to do that right now, but I'm looking into whether we can do better and whether we can fill in the arbitration in another way. I would like to take every opportunity to ensure that compensation is done correctly and quickly, that the procedure is improved and that we can save people from having to go to court with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u49	It's not like I'm in it. I think that the psychological situation in Groningen is such that the neutrality and expertise of a judge are extremely important for people. I also think that the provisional ruling of the Council of State by many people in Groningen was felt to be a relief, not because now that 3 billion cuub is won in Loppersum or not, but because there is apparently another route to justice outside the Minister and outside the Chamber, which is often for them in The Hague. That justice is then that the judge with his legal expertise looks at a situation. Given the psychic state in which many people find themselves, the Ombudsman also says that those people are psychologically in very heavy weather. That still hasn't happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u50	Why wouldn't what we set up do justice? I am primarily responsible for this. If you say there's damage, we don't say: prove that the damage comes from the earthquakes. No, if you say there's damage, there's gonna be a damage expert. He's watching that. We assume that this damage was caused by the earthquakes; that is clear. He shall then determine the damage and make an offer to compensate it. In a small number of cases, 4%, people disagree. They can then apply for a counter-expertise themselves, which is paid for them. For cases where there's no clarity, you've arranged arbitration. For special cases you have a special committee and for complaints about the whole you have the Independent Councilman. At any time, people can go to court if they want. That judge is not currently forced into a straitjacket with regard to the burden of proof. The judge can decide for himself what to do with that burden of proof. If he is presented with a case, he can say: I remove the burden of proof from the person concerned and put it with the NAM; let the NAM prove it. That's for the judge to say. There's nothing stopping that judge. We've arranged it in such a way that the judge doesn't have to be involved. That is also our responsibility. Anyone who wants to do that can go to court. If you go to court, the judge has the free hand to share the burden of proof. I think we've arranged it neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u51	Yesterday we received a letter from the Minister on the amendment to item No. 12. In that he says that the damage must be compensated correctly and quickly, and that is what is happening. The Minister repeats this here this evening and states that he does not recognize the image of Mrs Ouwehand that there must be lure by the inhabitants. I'll recognize that image. I'm really sorry about that picture. Especially the complex damage has been extended for us as one big hot potato for years. I really think it's a huge scandal that it happens that way. People are getting really shorthanded. I also recognise the despondency that Mr Smaling describes. I've been to a lot of people's homes. I've seen and heard a lot of things. I've been getting e-mails. I've spoken to vicars in the area. They made a statement not so long ago. Quite frankly, I don't think you can sustain that the system is working properly right now. People are so despondent that they don't come to those final stages at all. I am really sorry to see that the Minister presents such a different picture than the one I recognize from the region. I honestly don't get it. I saw, I believe, last Monday a picture in the minister's newspaper that was also in people's homes. I think he sees it, too. I'm asking him to think with us a little more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u52	I've been to dozens of people's homes and talked to hundreds of people on the street. I know exactly what's going on. That is why I am convinced that we need to regulate this compensation scheme in the best possible way, and I have worked hard to do so. I am convinced that the arrangement is good at the moment, and I will continue to look for ways to improve it. Mrs Mulder talks about the complex damage. We do not need to make that point any more complicated than it is. We have said that a damage report is being made and that a counter-expertise is possible. If you disagree, the Tcbb will be put on it. Then there is a verdict and then it has to be carried out. If there is a special situation, then there is another separate committee. Some of the damage cases have been there for too long. That's what we talked about here in the Chamber. Mr Vos has said that as far as his group is concerned it must be resolved before the end of the year. I told him I'd take over from him, and I'm on course for that. I believe that we are all convinced that there is a particularly difficult situation for Groningers together, for the area as a whole, and for individual Groningers, which is very burdensome, and I think that the responsibility lies with us, particularly with me, to ensure that the good things are done there. I have spent the last two years and five months with all the strength I have put in, and I will continue to do so to ensure that everything that can be done to ensure that this compensation procedure is fully implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u53	Apparently, I hear other things than the Minister, I can only establish. Moreover, the Minister still does not want to bring this gas extraction further down this year, which we have to wait for. Honestly, we're a little tired of waiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u54	There has been a long period of gas extraction, namely 60 years. I came two years and five months ago. Since then, I have been constantly working with the Chamber on all kinds of measures I am taking with regard to Groningen. At least it has not been in the last two years and five months, as I say to Mrs Mulder. We have always tried to do as quickly as possible what we thought was necessary. I believe that a large number of measures have been taken and that they are already having an effect. We have a separate organization that takes care of the damage in a correct way. We have also created the certainty surrounding it. We're catching up with the delays. There is still a lot of work to be done, but we are doing this in the right way. If a proposal is made by the Chamber which I think is an improvement, I am very happy to take over. However, I say that no cases have yet been brought before the courts and that reversal of the burden of proof is only a matter for the courts. Moreover, the judge already has the opportunity to distribute the burden of proof as he wishes. So I cannot see it as a solution with the best will in the world. What I do see as solutions, I have just outlined. I've already done it. Whatever's better, I'm willing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u55	It also bothers me that, on the one hand, the Minister acknowledges that there are problems for the people who are the victims of gas extraction in Groningen and, on the other hand, he does not want to admit what that requires to do for these people. What also bothers me in the Minister's reply, both in this letter and in the previous letter on the amendment, is that he writes: well, this is not ideal for those people either. No, no one's saying that. No one's waiting for tears in his house or much worse. It's for the people in Groningen who are the victims of a tragedy here and then you have to go into procedures. That remains very bad and we are not going to solve that in any way, because those tremors have been, are still there and will be. What the Chamber wants is to relieve the residents, the victims, as much as possible. Can the Minister really say here with a dry eye that he does not expect any positive effect for the people of Groningen in the sense that, if they go to court in those complicated procedures, which they had not already asked for, they know at least: the NAM is lagging behind here and not me; the NAM will have to prove that my damage has not been caused by its activities and fortunately I do not have to do so much about it. Are you sure the Minister doesn't expect anything from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u56	I don't expect any of that to have a positive effect. I believe that reversing the burden of proof does not have a positive effect in a situation where there are no cases before the courts and where the judge himself can decide on the distribution of that burden of proof. I think we need to have a proper procedure for compensation. If you're dealing with 30,000, 40,000 damage reports, you're gonna need a procedure. Then you can't make ad hoc decisions. That procedure has been set up. It is a very careful procedure. I'm very interested in opportunities for improvement. I will also be happy to use it wherever it is reasonably possible. If what Mrs Ouwehand is proposing would have been an improvement, I would have been happy to do so. I'm convinced it's not an improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u57	The difference is this. The minister says the judge can see for himself how he does it with the burden of proof, so that still depends on how the judge does it. What the Chamber is now proposing is that the burden of proof lies with the NAM. So you're strengthening the victim's position, and there's plenty of reason for that. I hear the Minister says: I don't expect anything from it; the victims are not going to like it; it doesn't have a positive effect. I have a second question on this point. Doesn't the Minister also expect this to be an incentive for the NAM to do a little bit better to be more generous at the start of the trial in recognising (the nature of) the damage caused and in the compensation that will have to be coughed up for it, because she knows that she will have the appearance against it when it ends in court?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u58	I would like to ignore the arguments put forward by Mrs Ouwehand prior to her question. She asks: do I expect that, as a result of the adoption of this amendment, the NAM will deal more flexibly with the claims? No, because the NAM isn't about that. We have the Center of Safe Living. That was placed remotely from the NAM. There will be 160 people working there, mainly from Groningen, to arrange for a damage settlement there. They have already been instructed by me to ensure that damages are paid generously, correctly and quickly. Correct is part of that, too. They do. In the meantime, I have made sure that they have set the case up in such a way that after a period of eight weeks an offer of damages can be made. The aim is also to ensure that those who have received this offer react so quickly that a matter can be dealt with completely within 16 weeks. That is what we are striving for. That is what the people in Groningen must be talking about and not about the fact that they are coming to a judge and that the Chamber is regulating a change that has no effect in practice. In a proper damages settlement procedure, people have an interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u59	D66 wants the position of the people in Groningen faced with huge cracks in the wall and the beams, we have seen them all strengthened. The Minister actually says in response to the solution proposed by the Chamber: it makes things worse. Yesterday in the hearing I asked the question to the NAM: do you have proof of that or is it a feeling you have? That is the same question I would like to put to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u60	I didn't say it's gonna get worse. I have said that the interest of the people lies mainly in the correct and rapid handling of their damage. With such large amounts of damage, 30,000, 40,000 reports, you really shouldn't have it from the judge. Then it has to come from a proper procedure. There hasn't been a case before the judge yet. If a case comes to court, the burden of proof is not a major bottleneck there, because the judge himself can decide how to distribute the burden of proof. I did not say that it is getting worse, but that I do not see how this amendment in any way leads to an improvement in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u61	I ask the question because in a number of countries around us the reversed burden of proof for this kind of thing has been implemented. You don't see any problems there either. That is why I ask the Minister if there is any evidence that the situation would deteriorate. Of course, we all want people without the intervention of the judge to be helped quickly and adequately. In the countries around us, it works well in this way. So why does the Minister think it's not getting better?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u62	I didn't say it was getting worse. Mrs Van Veldhoven repeats this and so I say again that I have not said that this is making it worse. Mrs Van Veldhoven refers to other countries. The Chamber referred to Germany. In Germany there is no reversal of the burden of proof but a presumption of evidence. That presumption of evidence is not applied at all. So I have already said that I remain attentive to the possibilities of improving the handling of damages. I have also said that this legal change concerning the burden of proof has little or no meaning, because the judge is free to distribute all that burden of proof. On 13 April I informed the Chamber in writing about the reversal of the burden of proof and about Mrs Ouwehand's amendment. The Chamber spoke about the situation in Germany, and that is what I have been trying to find out. I just said that in response to Mrs Van Veldhoven. I have found that this evidence that is valid in Germany is not used at all in practice. Mrs Mulder asked about Britain and Norway. I think I said something about Austria and France. I have no reason to believe that there is evidence in Great Britain and Norway, let alone that that is a solution. If Mrs Mulder has any other information on this matter, I would be glad to hear it. I have examined what the Chamber has asked for, in particular the alternative in Germany, and have informed the Chamber about it. After my letter of 13 April, the amendment to item No. 8 replaced by Amendment No 8 replaced by Amendment No 8 replaced by Amendment No 8 replaced by Amendment No 8 replaced by Amendment No 8 replaced by Amendment No 8 replaced by Amendment No 8 replaced by Amendment No 8 replaced by Amendment No 8 replaced by Amendment No 8 replaced by Amendment No 8 replaced by Amendment No 8 replaced by Amendment No 8 replaced by The new amendment regulates the following. In the event of damage caused by soil movement or mineral spills within the area of impact of a mining work which could be damage to mining by its nature, it is suspected that the damage is the result of mining activities. That amended amendment goes beyond German law, because here in the Netherlands, if the amendment were to be incorporated into the law, it would not have to be proved before the courts that the damage is the result of soil movement. If there is damage, the question is whether it is due to soil movement. The next question is whether this soil movement is a result of mining activity. In Germany you have to prove that the damage is due to soil movement. Then there's the evidence for that last part I just talked about. This is therefore not being applied in practice. Mr Smaling cited my example of Mr Jansen in the letter. He asked whether Mr Jansen is worse off in reversing the burden of proof. With that amended amendment in part No. 12 is no longer the case. The example was given in the amendment to item No. 8. In the case of Amendment No 1, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has tabled a number of amendments. 12 Mr Jansen's disadvantage no longer applies, but the situation for mining operators is becoming more unreasonable. I will say a few words about all the mining operators. The Chamber may think of the NAM, but it's more than the NAM. In conjunction with existing risk liability, the mere fact that someone carries out mining activities in this amendment is sufficient to assume liability for any damage that might have been caused by a mining activity. This applies to all mining activities in the Netherlands, both for large and small operators. Such a far-reaching liability is unprecedented. It should therefore not be introduced lightly. For example, a gardener in the Westland. His neighbor has a crack in his house due to a structural flaw. That rift could also have been caused by a mining activity. That gardener uses geothermal energy, which is considered a mining activity. That means that the gardener has to compensate for that damage, unless he can prove that that damage has another cause. He must carry out research and prove that this damage was caused by an engineering defect and not by that mining activity. If he can prove that, he doesn't have to pay for the damage. Otherwise, he's just gonna have to pay for it. Such a scheme is contrary to the principle that no one has to compensate for any damage he has not caused. This is unreasonable for operators and it is also detrimental to the business environment. For that reason and because the amendment to item No. 12 to solve a problem that is not there, I advise against the amendment. Mr Smaling also asked for a response to his assumption that there is a lack of knowledge in the courts and that it is therefore necessary to establish the presumption of evidence legally. I do not share that view. The judge will base his judgment on evidence that parties submit. The judgment of the experts employed by the Safe Living Centre is important to the court. The Tcbb's view is also important to the court. The judge may also appoint an expert. Even if a presumption of evidence is used and the operator provides counter evidence, the court will still have to assess whether that mining activity is the cause of the damage. That's what happens in court. I think that we should and can avoid this with the procedure that I have just explained in detail. Mrs Mulder asked how I defined the amendment to item No. 12 go and deal with it. I don't know. It is not easy to define in a good way what the impact area of a mining work is. I did not recommend the amendment, so I cannot answer that question either. Mrs van Tongeren asked whether the amendment on the burden of proof that is now under discussion is the same as the one on which the amendment was discussed in 2001. In 2001, there was an amendment by Mrs Witteveen-Hevinga. I think I'm the only one in the Chamber who got to work with her for another year. Mrs Witteveen tabled an amendment to the Mining Act. That amendment is very similar to the original amendment tabled by Mrs Ouwehand, the amendment tabled by Mrs Ouwehand. 8. That amendment was rejected in 2001 because by letter of amendment the tasks of the Tcbb were fundamentally extended and perceived as a solution. The amendment now before us, the amendment to item No. 12 of Mr Vos and Mr Ouwehand, goes beyond the 2001 amendment and goes beyond the law in Germany. The new amendment already establishes the presumption of mining damage. So as soon as there is damage somewhere in the vicinity of a mining work that could be the result of mining, it is said: then so it is. On that basis, there is the obligation to compensate for that damage. Then you end up in the situation as I just pointed out with the example of the gardener in the Westland. Mrs Mulder indicated that it is a real issue that people who already have problems have the idea that things are not being taken seriously. She asked me if I wanted to solve that problem as soon as possible. Like Mrs Mulder and all the others who have often been in the area and who have spoken to the people, I know very well what lives there and how people experience it. I know that there is an expensive duty on us and on me in particular to ensure that the compensation procedure goes well, continues to work well and, where it can, is improved. That's why I'm doing it. I am looking at arbitration, but I am also working on a guarantee fund, with which you can achieve solutions when there is a discussion about damage to be repaired or about overdue maintenance. I am in the process of finding a solution for this with a guarantee fund. Mrs Ouwehand asked if I would be willing to take over the damage settlement myself and then deposit the bill with the NAM. We've just set up a large organization, remotely from the NAM and under independent supervision. This Safe Living Centre must handle the damage properly and quickly, and I believe it does. This is also apparent from the assessment of the people involved. The damage protocol has been modified. Unlike the NAM at the time, the Safe Living Centre employs people who have had special training in and experience in the handling of damages. I am confident that the current damage handling by the Safe Living Centre will be done with care and speed. I have made sure of this on the spot and here in The Hague on several occasions. I see no reason to take over the proceedings just over three months after the Centre for Safe Living has been set up, and to do so myself. I would also like to respond to Mrs Ouwehand's remark that there are no problems at all with the demarcation of mining and that everyone knows that windmills are not mining. I do not dispute Mrs Ouwehand's remark that it is sufficiently clear what is and is not covered by mining. That's right. However, I note that not all mining is comparable to the extraction of gas in Groningen. I've already talked about the geothermals. That too is mining. It's used by gardeners. So if you come up with arrangements, it has not only for the NAM but also for a gardener effect. In view of the input of several spokesmen on the burden of proof and the importance of an opinion on this matter from the Council of State, I propose that I consult the Advisory Section of the Council of State specifically on this point. It is clear that this is a major problem in the drafting of this legislation between the government and the Chamber. I therefore propose that we request an urgent opinion from the Council of State on this amendment on the burden of proof, that I await that opinion and that we then include that opinion in the amendment of the Mining Act following the OVV report. So we ask for that advice from the Council of State. The outcome of this is included in the bill that I come up with to amend the Mining Act on the basis of the recommendations in the OVV report. The next opportunity for us to fully amend this law on the basis of all these recommendations can therefore be taken into account. The bill we are discussing today can then continue. If I come up with that bill, if I have had the opinion of the Council of State and if the Chamber does not yet agree, then the Chamber can, if it wishes and despite what I have just said, retable this amendment on that occasion. Madam President, I promised you I would do it in an hour and a half, but there were some interruptions. I'm trying to get rid of the rest of the questions now. I've had most of the questions by now. I should also like to comment on some of the amendments, because four of them came to me shortly before this consultation, half an hour before this consultation. Mrs Van Tongeren pointed out that you have a finite industry with oil and gas and that this is on the way to the CO-neutral energy supply that is being pursued by 2050. She asked me how I anticipate that. I have already announced that I will present the Energy Report 2015 at the end of this year and that I will give a long-term view of the role of gas in the Dutch energy supply. It is now clear to everyone that gas will continue to play an important role in the Netherlands in the coming years. Of course, this does not mean that we can always win unlimited gas. However, I do not see why the present proposal should somehow take account of the phasing-out of the oil and gas sector. That phasing-out will take place in the longer term, but I do not see any connection with this bill. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked, following the Council of State's ruling on turning off the gas tap in Loppersum, whether I can guarantee that the crane will not be opened elsewhere in Groningen. This week I informed the Chamber in writing. I have imposed production ceilings for all four clusters within the Groningen field. Those limits are fixed. They must not be exceeded. If the Council of State decides on one of these clusters, it must not lead to any more winning in the other clusters. So compensation for less production from Loppersum by more production from the other parts of the Groningenveld is not the issue. The reduced extraction from the Groningenveld as a result of the ruling, the provisional provision of the Council of State, which will result in a final ruling at the end of this year or early 2016, will not lead to more gas being extracted from gas fields elsewhere in the Netherlands. In practice it is not possible to temporarily win more from the now in production small fields. There is produced at a continuous, steady pace that slowly but surely slows down during the life of the fields and cannot be temporarily increased. Well, that's not gonna happen. Mrs Mulder asked when a separate work programme for fracking would be arranged. The amendment of the Mining Decision which regulates this has recently been consulted. I expect a separate work programme for fracking to be required from 1 January 2016, if that change can be in force. At the moment, State supervision of the Mines is already overseeing the fracking. In conventional gas extraction, this fracking is seen as part of the gas well. A separate work programme is already needed for this. Now I will deal with the possible liability in Limburg. Mr Smaling asked about the expiry of liability in the coal mining industry in South Limburg at the time. Coal mining ended in 1974. Afterwards, a German company continued to pump mining water away on Dutch territory to keep the adjacent mines in Germany, where coal was still extracted, dry. Since coal mining was also discontinued in Germany in December 1992, the German company stopped pumping in 1994. The pumping away of groundwater was therefore not related to the closure of coal mining in the Netherlands. Therefore, in the context of the legal proceedings against the Guarantee Fund, damage to the mining industry prior to the start of the limitation period was based on the termination of mining activities in 1974.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u63	That's the point. You're gonna stop mining and shut down mining activity. But then the water that naturally comes up is pumped away for another 20 years. In 1994 you quit and you get a different geohydrological situation. In geohydrological terms, 1994 is therefore the point after which a new situation arises. That was 20 years ago and is therefore within the limitation period. Is that what the Minister says?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u64	We had lawyers do a good job of finding out. The pumping of the water has started and ended due to activities that took place in Germany. This did not concern the activities in the Netherlands. They ended in 1974. Therefore, 1994, the year in which the pumps were stopped, is not relevant for the limitation period. For this purpose, the closure of mining activities in the Netherlands is relevant and that was done in 1974.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u65	I'd like to fight about that sometime. A different situation was evident in 1994 because the water was no longer pumped out. Underground mining has been carried out. The water was pumped away for a long time, but it didn't happen from a certain moment. At that time, a significantly different situation occurs in the subsurface, which also has above-ground effects. That's what you see in the city of Parkstad. Perhaps we can agree bilaterally that in 1994 there was a significant point that led to a different dynamic in the subsurface and therefore also above ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u66	With all due respect, we will only agree on this bilaterally if Mr Smaling is able to endorse my view this time. The normal limitation period is 20 years. In the case of mining activities, the legislator has opted for a limitation period of 30 years. Mining activities in the Netherlands ended in 1974. Then, at some point, the pumps were restarted because of the extraction in Germany, but that also ended again. This therefore related to the activities in Germany and not to the activities in the Netherlands. In this context, there is already a legal procedure against the Guarantee Fund for Mining Damage. This is based on a limitation period which started in 1974 and has now expired. That is the legal situation at the moment. I'm gonna put it right here. I do not know whether Mr Smaling can agree with that. Mrs Mulder asked about the development of research into the effects of coal mining in Limburg. I included a passage on this in my letter of 27 March. It states that seven possible consequences of former coal mining and rising mining water are currently being investigated. These are soil increases, sinkings at shafts, subsidences over shallow extractions, groundwater pollution, rise in groundwater, release of mine gas and light earthquakes. All of these possible consequences are being investigated. That's a big investigation going on. The results are expected in mid-2016. I can't say anything about it ahead of time. Then I'll deal with the damages from the NAM. Following a ruling by the NAM, namely that even outside the contour area could be knocked on by the NAM. I have already made statements on this matter before............................................................................................................................................................................................................ On the basis of the earthquake at Huizinge, an outline of the ground accelerations occurred in 2012. On the basis of these ground accelerations, it is possible to calculate for houses the distance from the location of the earthquake damage can occur. Beyond these contours, the ground accelerations are theoretically too low to cause damage. As a result of the situations that have arisen and occur, the shallow bottom of Groningen is currently being mapped out in more detail in order to obtain a more accurate picture. It is possible that certain soil species have a strengthening effect on the ground accelerations and thus come outside the contour area. It may be an explanation for the damage outside the contour area. That study will be completed in this year. This can lead to adaptation of the contour area. In the meantime, I think it is very sensible that the NAM should think and look at what is happening in practice and that claims outside the area should also be dealt with by the Safe Living Centre.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u67	You have earthquake damage or you don't have it. In the eyes of many Groningers, the contour area is still a reality in The Hague. If the Minister now says that they are being treated, does that mean that they will be solved in exactly the same way as the Minister has outlined for the inhabitants living in the earthquake zone within the contours?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u68	We've already discussed with each other that at the moment, in its entirety, it's about 40,000 claims. To be able to handle them properly, you need policies and procedures. Those procedures should be based on research and facts. That's what happened. The contour area has been established. There could be nothing out there. There are things. As a result, we are now going to investigate. This may show that the contour area needs to be expanded. In the meantime, claims outside that area will also be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u69	For years, until 1993, it has been denied that there were earthquakes at all. Then it was said for a long time: these tremors are up to 3, or 3.6. Eventually it was said that they are probably 5. Are we gonna talk about the contour area every time? I don't understand. In Groningen, you either have earthquake damage or you don't. Nature will not be guided. When we intervene in nature through the extraction of fossil fuels, from gas, earthquakes occur. We cannot determine where they come from with the help of a contour area that we find here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u70	The contour area is part of research that you do and of observations that you make, in order to base your policy and be able to work with a careful procedure. We can talk about denying the link between damage and gas extraction in the past. However, as long as Mr Vos is in office here and I am in my place, there is full recognition of the link. That was never contradicted by him, by me or by anyone in this Chamber or the Cabinet. We are now dealing with all claims in the manner we have just discussed with each other. Part of the procedure used is that contour area. If we find that this is not the full answer to what may occur in practice, then we will investigate it. If it turns out that there must be an adjustment, then we will adapt it. In the meantime, we will process the relevant reports from outside the area. I think that is what we should do in the context of care. Mr Smaling has asked me to introduce a more targeted review of the duration of search and extraction permits. In this respect, he has the amendment to item No. 20 submitted. What Mr Smaling is asking for is already included in the procedure for granting search permits. A search permit is almost always granted for four years. The authorisation holder shall indicate after two years whether he intends to drill and, if so, where he intends to do so. That's a "go/no-go" moment. If he doesn't, it's over with the permit. In addition, there is always an obligation to make sure that in the third year of authorisation, at least, there is effective drilling. After two years he has to say when he does it, but that may not be in the fourth year. No, that has to happen in the third year. So much for the search permits. Extraction licences shall be granted for the duration of their extraction. Small fields have a duration of ten to twenty years. If there has been no significant activity in any part of the area within a two-year extraction permit, I can reduce that authorisation by that part of the area. So it's already taken care of. That is why I reject the amendment to item No. 20. Mrs Van Tongeren asked what happens to wells after the mining operations have ended. Those wells are out of use. The well is equipped with plugs of cement at different depths, so that nothing can pass through. It's being tested. If these tests are successful, then the tube can be cut off from the well. Subsequently, the mining company will remain liable for any damage resulting from the decommissioning of a well for a period of 30 years. Mrs Van Tongeren also asked about the decision on major accidents (Brzo). Will wastewater injections and above-ground storage of condensate be covered by that Brzo? In the case of waste water injections in the context of mining activities, this is the re-injection of production water. You win oil and gas and it raises water. That production water is separated from the oil or gas on the surface and is then injected back into the subsurface. Depending on the establishment whose waste water is injected and whether the production water also contains dangerous substances, that activity may be covered by the operation of the Brzo. So that depends on the facts. This is not generally the case with mining works. The Brzo does not, in principle, cover above-ground storage of mining works. Exception is the underground gas storage on land. That exception is included in the so-called Seveso Directive, which has been implemented in the Brzo. The purpose of this Directive is to control risks in installations with large quantities of hazardous substances, such as underground gas storage on land. The offshore safety directive, the implementation of which we are discussing, aims at a similar regime for mining works and thus also contributes to safety. Madam President, thank you for your patience. This was my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u71	I am missing an opinion on a number of amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u72	You're right. These are four amendments which I received just before this sitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u73	But before you judge that, there is an interruption by Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u74	I am happy to await the advice on the latest amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u75	With the amendment in part No. The aim is to make all waste water injections subject to authorisation under the Mining Act. I have already said that waste water injection is often about the injection of production water, and this is covered by the definition of the storage of substances referred to in the Mining Act. This does not require a storage permit because it involves the injection of production water into the same soil layer. As I have just said, the injection of production water is subject to regulations which are laid down in the environmental permit for the installation in question. It is therefore not necessary to introduce a licence requirement for the injection of the production water itself. Any additional grounds for refusal for the storage of production water are also superfluous. The environmental permit and the conditions that can be attached to it are available for this purpose. Moreover, this amendment would also have a disproportionate impact on geothermal heat and gardeners. It would make the whole process of switching on geothermal heat and geothermal energy even more complex and therefore even less attractive. In the case of geothermal energy, only pure water is pumped back into the ground. No new substances are added which pose a risk to the environment. That is why the amendment, as it is before me, must be discouraged by me. In part No. 27 an amendment has been tabled to replace that Amendment No 27. 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u76	The amendment in part No. 27 is a sub-amendment tabled by Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u77	Thank you, Madam President. It is as you say, and that can also be expected from a President. The sub-amendment amends the amendment in part No. 12 and aims to further strengthen the position of the injured party with an obligation to provide information to operators and public authorities. We have just discussed for a very long time the amendment to item No. 12 of Mr Fox and Mr Ouwehand. I did not recommend that amendment and I therefore also advise against the sub-amendment. I note that citizens can appeal to the Public Administration Act if they want public sector information. Furthermore, the amendment may require operators to make business confidential information available, which is not desirable. My main argument, however, is that the amendment is a sub-amendment to that paragraph. 12 is and that I have already advised against that amendment. I therefore advise against the adoption of Amendment No 2. 27. The amendment in part No. The purpose of 28 is to require a number of additional information when submitting an application for a search and extraction permit. It concerns information on the impact on the environment, damage caused by soil movement, safety and public health. The legislative proposal already provides that when assessing an application for a search or extraction permit, I must take into account the risk, the hazards and other relevant information on the area for which the permit will apply. It has been suggested in the debate that it is only about economic viability, and that is not correct. It concerns risks, hazards and other relevant information on the area for which the authorisation will apply. Ministerial arrangements will determine the data to be submitted by the applicant. I will also look at the aspects mentioned in this amendment when drawing up this regulation. In view of the arrangements that I will come up with, it is not appropriate to regulate some of these additional data by law at this stage. It does not fit well in the system of how we deal with laws and regulations. It has no added value in this case either. It also does not benefit the integrity. That is why I do not recommend the adoption of this amendment. The last amendment I have to give an opinion on is that of item No. 29. This amendment replaces the amendment in part No. 22. However, I have already responded to that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u78	We have heard the Minister answer a number of questions, but we have also heard the Minister say for two hours: 'Everything the Chamber proposes is not necessary. Just trust me. It's gonna be okay." The Chamber had another hearing last night with people from the area in Groningen. We're being flooded with e-mail. We get stories and requests from Groningen all the time. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance feels that there is urgency, but that also applies to the other groups, because they have said so themselves. I do not understand why the Minister is actually rejecting all the amendments for two reasons, it is coming too soon and there is no consistency. He doesn't say, "I can live with this one. I could have done better myself. I don't want that." The Minister simply says: in one swipe everything off the table; I'll come myself when the time is right for me, and Chamber... I'll just say it a little more gross than I normally do... The Minister thus creates an atmosphere which makes it difficult for the Chamber to cooperate with him. I would therefore like to ask the Minister again at the end of his speech: can the Minister look at the amendments and perhaps find some that may not have been written down entirely in the way he would do it, but which are an improvement and give the Groningers or the people on Terschelling or in the Green Heart or at the Bergermeer gas storage? Is there really nothing in all the proposals from the Chamber? Is everything we propose careless, premature and without any coherence?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u79	I don't have a problem with the atmosphere. Insofar as there is something going on with the atmosphere, it may have to do with me coming up with a bill on the safety of drilling platforms in the North Sea. There has been a disaster in the Gulf of Mexico, and the European Union has said that a number of things need to change. I'm implementing that in a law amendment. Then the Chamber comes forward with 15 amendments which mainly concern Groningen. Of course, the Chamber may do that, but what I may do is to go into the substance of that and come up with arguments why I think it would be better to do it at a different time and in a different form. I have also expressed this in detail today in a letter to the Chamber. I've had two hours and 15 minutes to talk about it. I have also always dealt with the substance of the matter. So there is no question of me wiping everything off the table, no, it is a question of taking everything seriously and going into it in substance. I also keep telling you how careful decision-making could take place in a more responsible manner, perhaps not at the moment, but at a later stage. The Chamber is a co-legislator. The government is also a co-legislator. We must try to agree together. That was what my contribution today was aimed at. My aim was not to clean up all the issues raised by the Chamber, but to do justice to them in the most correct way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u80	Then perhaps the Minister and I attended another debate, because I did not have the Minister at any point... Perhaps the Minister has carefully and comprehensively wiped it off the table, but everything has been wiped off the table. The earthquake in Huizinge was in 2012. The adopted chamber motion to amend the Mining Act was from 2013. It is quite logical, therefore, that the Chamber, which does feel the pressure and tries to arrange something for the Groningers but also for people elsewhere in the country, is taking advantage of this moment. The Minister knew that. He could have seen it coming; so it can't be a surprise. But again, the arguments are only: it's too soon he says that after two years of.... and there's no connection between it. That's the main argument. How should we find a link between extending the grounds for rejection, also recommended by the Research Council, and regulating the formal role of water authorities, municipalities and provinces? There's no connection. Those are two different subjects. The Minister's gonna wipe that off the table. The Minister doesn't, but I'd still like to invite him to see if there's really nothing possible. Otherwise, it's just gonna have to come to the vote. Then there's no other option.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u81	The latter is undoubtedly the case. The Chamber itself is in charge of the order. It itself decides what amendments will be tabled and what will be done at the time of the vote. I realize that very well. Perhaps Mrs Van Tongeren could also realise that it is not the case that people in Groningen have to wait until something is arranged for them. As I have already said, I have been constantly working for two years and five months to arrange all kinds of things to ensure that the great problem facing people in Groningen, the Groningen society and Groningen as a whole is addressed. That is why we have done what we have all done. We also have other things to do, for example the safety of drilling platforms. This is now dealt with in a legislative proposal. In the meantime, however, I will continue with all my strength to further improve what is going on for Groningen and what we have set up. The points that have been raised today in the traffic between the Chamber and the Government are, to a large extent, points which I am also working on and which I will present to the Chamber as soon as possible in their connection with a legislative proposal. I have indicated that the very early moment at which I could do so could be very soon, in mid-October. I will come back to the issue of the municipalities and provinces that Mrs Van Tongeren talked about. I have already said that, in anticipation of the amendment of the law, I will deal with the municipalities and provinces in the intended way as regards their role in advising.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u82	I thank the Minister. No, Mr Smaling, you've already had three interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u83	I just want to request a 15-minute timeout.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u84	Yes, I was going to, because your wish was known. I thank the Minister for his first answer and suspend the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u85	Mr. Chairman. It is time for a change in the way in which we in the Netherlands deal with the extraction of substances from the subsurface, not only at sea, but also on land. For a long time, therefore, D66 has been calling for adaptation of the Mining Act, not only in connection with Groningen and the incredibly difficult situation in which a lot of people find themselves, but also in connection with all kinds of other issues that concern residents of Brabant and Drenthe. I am referring, for example, to options for the extraction of shale gas, or, on the other hand, to the injection of waste water. In the meantime, people are telling us that licensing such matters should no longer be an automatic exercise. There really must be a careful balance between this and the interests of the company applying for the licence. A very specific point about this law. Despite the Minister's replies, D66 is not convinced that the safety of mining installations is sufficiently guaranteed if the person responsible for verifying safety is employed by the company for which he does so. That's a bit of the butcher who approves his own meat. There will probably be situations in which this is going to be fine, but let us be sure that such an inspector does not oppose appearances. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas an independent expert at the mining installations will carry out the verifications;]] [[Whereas the independence of this expert may be doubted if he is employed by the undertaking from which he checks the installations;]] [[invites the Government to include in the AMvB in the selection criteria of the independent expert that it may not be employed by the company from which it checks the installations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Veldhoven and Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34041-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u86	We have talked extensively about reversing the burden of proof, or at least about the idea that if mining activities take place in a particular area and there is damage, residents may assume that they are in a strong position and that the burden of proof will lie with the party benefiting from those activities. The D66 Group is in favour of strengthening the position of the people concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u87	Mr. Chairman. I had almost the same introduction as Mrs Van Veldhoven, namely that there is a kind of spatial planning fear in this country. We are of course a small and densely populated country, so everyone has a "backyard" and prefers some things not to happen in it. The situation in Groningen has caused people at all levels and in all parts of the country to worry about what is happening in their immediate surroundings, whether the installation of windmills is above ground or the injection of wastewater, gas extraction or storage and salt extraction is underground. It plays everywhere and in all kinds of different places. We must be aware of this, as a Chamber and as a government. I ask the Minister to be more aware of this and to be aware that what is happening in Groningen is creating a population that is more and more anxious and uncertain about what is happening to the environment. Another point is that the Minister has a hand in wanting to do everything at his own pace. It's his policy. If the majority of the Chamber follows him, he can pursue his policy. I have to say that in recent months it has often occurred that the two government parties followed him and all the others were considered to be some kind of dwarf poodles after the minister. Motions were consistently not recommended and voted away. This creates, also in view of the emotion that is especially there in Groningen, an atmosphere in the Chamber that is not nice to me. I can handle that. I think it's worse for those people in Groningen who want something real to happen. The Minister does all kinds of things, I say immediately, but it does not land enough. Today we are discussing here, among other things, that people do not feel that they can quickly get their rights. Then the NAM can send a damage expert and then we can have Centrum Secure Living that is neutral and objective on paper, but I hear that that stays strongly on the NAM. And there is something like the Tcbb, but people barely know what the letters of that abbreviation are for. That's where the judge comes in. If we want to meet the people in Groningen and elsewhere in the country who are concerned about what is going on in their immediate vicinity, then we must, both the Chamber and the Cabinet, express confidence, preferably in the widest possible composition. Unfortunately, this has not been the case in recent months. I hope this changes as of today. I therefore call on the Minister to express a slightly different mentality in this respect. It is not about his work ethic at all, but about allowing feelings and movements, especially from that province, which may not translate into percentages of people who find their right or not, but in percentages of people who are in great spiritual and financial distress, but simply cannot leave. These percentages will, among other things, reach the provincial Ombudsman. I am happy to meet the Minister with regard to some of my amendments. If this can be taken into account at a later stage, I would like to hear from him at what time he thinks that a new amendment to the Mining Act, which takes account of his elaboration of the recommendations of the Security Research Council, will be able to move in this direction. I am in principle willing to re-table these amendments unless they are already included in his own legislative proposal. The Vos/Ouwehand amendment and our own sub-amendment relating to it do support the SP Group. On the question of when there is a geohydrological change in Limburg, we disagree. That is why I am tabling a motion that brings the Minister and me together, I hope. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in Limburg there is a phenomenon of not sinking soil but rising as a result of rising mining water;]] [[Whereas as a result of rising soil there is damage to, inter alia, homes, buildings and infrastructure;]] [[Whereas this new damage has occurred in particular since the cessation in 1994 of pumping away the mining water;]] [[considers that this is a new fact and that the legal limitation period should be linked to this new fact;]] [[declares that this new injury is exempted from the general limitation period until the results of the current investigation are known, and in particular the exact cause of the rising soil and the resulting damage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34041-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u88	That was a long one, but a nice one. This is what I wanted to leave it at.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u89	Mr. Chairman. We are dealing here with the amendment of the Mining Act implementing the offshore oil and gas activities directive, but the debate focused on amendments that anticipate the debate on next week's report by the Research Council on Security, and in particular on the amendment to reverse the burden of proof. The PVV supports this amendment. I have given our three main arguments for this in the first term. The Minister has not been able to convince us of the opposite. We do not want to create false expectations either. The current damage cases have not been helped directly by this. Only if people come to court after years of scheming about damages, will this amendment be helpful. However, the PVV is also mainly committed to helping people in Groningen for that time. Next week, during the debate on the report of the Security Research Council, we will make concrete proposals for this. We hope that this first step in the right direction of the PvdA will be a turning point in the years of deception of the Groningen people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u90	Mr. Chairman. Since Huizinge there has been a feeling in Groningen, in Twente, in Woerden and on Terschelling that people are not well protected against large gas and oil companies. I've said that before. It's about the world's biggest companies. Shell is the third company in the world in size and Exxon the fourth. These companies have a turnover of over 300 billion a year and make profits of 150 billion a year. Ordinary people feel pretty powerless to stand up to that. Tonight I tried to express that feeling by saying that they do not feel that much is changing in The Hague and that they are being defended. The fact that the minister behind the scenes has conducted a lot of investigations and that there is a lot of activity is not felt by the people who sit and live there. To my great regret, I miss that with this minister. I also miss a movement to the Chamber when he is so clearly called upon from all sides in the line of: "Is there really nothing possible? Can't we go any faster? Isn't there anything in there?" The resolution adopted in 2013 already asked to look at the grounds for rejection. I find it regrettable and inexplicable that this has still not been achieved in April 2015. I also understand that the amendment to reverse the burden of proof has been in place since the beginning of February. If the Minister had wanted an opinion from the Council of State on that amendment at the time, it could have done so. I understand there's a lot of work in the department on the extraction of gas. That is of course because this has only come to the attention of Huizinge since the quake, but it is a reality. It just doesn't work anymore to explain to people from Groningen, Twente and Terschelling that it has to be postponed again, until October, until June and even longer. That is why I am sorry that the Minister is not partly in favour of the Chamber by saying that he is prepared to accept certain amendments if the Chamber is prepared to withdraw other amendments. The Minister simply said about the whole package that it is not necessary, that it is going at its pace and with its information. I am sure he will do the same with the motions. I've got two motions I'm gonna try bravely with. One is about disclosure of information. The Aarhus Convention states that there is an increased need for the State to make environmental information available to all citizens. State Secretary Mansveld, who signed the Maastricht Declaration on behalf of the State, confirmed this statement once again. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that not all the information from State surveillance on the Mines is public and that transparency is good for citizens' confidence in government;]] [[calls on the Government to gradually publish and access all non-business sensitive SodM information on compliance with the relevant legislation through the website,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Tongeren and Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34041-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u91	My second motion concerns one of the many problems the Groningen people have in getting their damages reimbursed. Several Groningers have told me that they are obliged to borrow money, because their new or fortified house is worth more than the house they now have. The NAM must not give a donation to the person concerned. It is therefore said: the WWZ value of the old house was €200,000 and the WWZ value is €250,000; you can borrow that €50,000 yourself. I am familiar with a number of cases and I think this should be changed. This is an investigative motion, a request to the Minister to look into this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that mining undertakings have to compensate for damage caused by soil movement as a result of their activities;]] [[noting that damage repair and strengthening of buildings may increase the value of a building and may result in a donation;]] [[noting that the Tax Administration collects tax on donations;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether it is necessary to adapt the tax rules for donations in such a way that they do not put a brake on damages and prevention in mining activities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34041-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u92	Finally, I hope that we will get to work on two tracks. On the one hand, we in the Netherlands need to rehab of fossil energy as quickly as possible. We need to do this by using it more efficiently and by moving to renewable energy as quickly as possible. The last fossil fuel left in the Netherlands, for example under the Wadden Sea and the Wadden Islands or in shale gas bubbles in Brabant, should not be used. On the other hand, we need to speed up the dossier. It may go a little faster than the Minister wants, but I hope he sees that this is the intention of the Chamber. That is why 15 amendments and about five or six motions have been tabled to the Minister this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u93	Mr. Chairman. My group has tabled three amendments to the legislative proposal that we are debating today. One of these is to increase the participation of local authorities in new mining projects. I think it is very important that people feel connected and have the right to advice in the extraction of gas and other fossil resources. That's what we experienced in Groningen. I am glad that we can put the amendment to the vote. The second amendment dealt with a different distribution, the allocation of greater value to natural values and environmental factors. Not only economic gain must play a role, but also the way we deal with people and nature is gaining more and more importance in the time frame in which we live. It is a good thing that we also lay this down in the law. We have also proposed an amendment to that effect, which we shall put to the vote. Much has been said about the reversal of the burden of proof. This has been the subject of discussion in this Chamber for more than 15 years. On 13 December 2001, my colleague Witteveen tabled an amendment similar to the one that is now before us. In my view, this has been handled very carefully. In 1998, the Council of State also looked at a similar issue in the draft Mining Act at that time. I have been surprised at the way in which today we have dealt with the right of amendment of this Chamber as set out in Article 84 (2). I think we all need to reflect on that. I believe that the choice of words used at times does not reflect the right laid down in the Constitution. I have spoken about the contours that have now been established. I am starting to be more and more surprised about that. I think we should look at that again in the future. Maybe we can let them go completely, because it's very simple for me and my group: you have earthquake damage or you don't have it. In my view, the contours that we see in The Hague do not matter very much. That point will come back in the coming period. I will also table a motion with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance on the positioning of SodM, but that will be discussed in the debate we are having next week, as is customary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u94	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the amendment of the Mining Act, which is indeed about implementing a European directive to better protect nature from mining activities at sea. The Minister has shown some resentment that the Chamber has taken the opportunity to do something more for the protection of nature. The same applies to a wide-ranging desire to ensure better protection of the interests of local residents who are likely to be victims in mining activities and thus to strengthen the position of potential victims. The Minister is displeased. I'd say the room's just doing its job. We are representatives of the people, we are co-legislators. It is an independent responsibility to check whether the tasks ahead of us are being carried out properly and quickly and whether they are really in the interest of tackling the major problems we encounter daily in our mailbox and in conversations with people. I think that is only logical, so I am surprised at the way in which the Minister has addressed the Chamber. The reversal of the burden of proof is urgently needed. The Minister doesn't expect much of it. He also tried to sketch an image in previous reactions as if, if the Chamber adopted the bill, a paradise on earth would arise for the Groningen people; as if we were so naive to think that would happen. I'm gonna say it again: that's not gonna happen at all. The amendment does not come a second too early, given the predictions that have been made about the tremors that will follow. This is certainly the case in conjunction with the cabinet decision not to make final agreements at the moment on how far down gas extraction should go and the Minister's refusal to examine the safest scenarios at least, so that we can look together to see whether it should go to 12 billion or 21 billion. The Minister doesn't want any of that. At the same time, research shows that there will be more tremors, whether today or tomorrow. Therefore, for the position of the people who will hit that, this day is not too early to adopt that amendment. If the Minister had looked more seriously at the wish that lived in the Chamber, he could have looked seriously at the possibilities before. The proposal has been there since February. Now the Minister comes up with the argument of the Council of State, that there is a possibility of an emergency procedure lasting six weeks. I guess I could have done that by now. So, as far as the Animal Party is concerned, we are simply voting on it. I think we'll regret it if we don't. To conclude this debate as far as my group is concerned, I have another motion for a resolution. On this point, too, there is an amendment from my group. However, if for some reason that is not laid down in the law at the moment, I would still like to put it to the cabinet by means of a motion. The motion concerns the safeguarding of Natura 2000 sites of mining activities. The Minister did agree to this for wind energy at sea, for which he thanked. We're still waiting for policy. It seems reasonable to do the same for mining activities. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister has undertaken to develop policies for wind energy at sea in the form of a framework ecology excluding the placement of wind turbines in or near Natura 2000 sites;]] [[noting that the Minister is working on a structural vision of subsurface in which policies will be developed which will include the balancing framework of mining activities in particular natural areas;]] [[Whereas Natura 2000 sites should be protected not only from wind turbines but also from mining activities, including gas drilling and salt extraction;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the subsurface structural vision an exclusion for mining activities in or near Natura 2000 sites,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34041-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u95	It goes without saying that all the amendments calling for greater account to be taken of nature as grounds for exclusion can count on the warm support of my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u96	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the many questions that my group also had. They have all been answered consistently, for which I am grateful. We had not yet made up our minds about the reversal of the burden of proof. I said that in the first period. I had hoped today to clarify all the ins and outs of that amendment. That total clarity has not been achieved. What I did hear and what I read in the Minister's letter is that the settlement of damages is actually going very well. The image I have is just a completely different one. On the basis of this observation and of what has been discussed and shared here in the Chamber this evening, I can say that the CDA will vote in favour of the amendment on the reversal of the burden of proof. We want to offer the inhabitants of Groningen more comfort. Right now, it's just not going well enough. Now is the time to do that. If we find out in the future that there might still be some hooks and eyes, we will certainly approach them with care in the future. This can also be expected from the CDA Group. We shall look closely at the other amendments. There are a number of issues that are going to take place in the coming days and weeks, in hearings or in debates here in the House of Representatives. We will either involve them in this or we will give our opinion on it next Tuesday. We just hope to be able to give our Groningers good support in this way. We trust that we can do this right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u97	As the last speaker, I shall give the floor to Mr Bosman of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u98	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. The bill is actually about the implementation of a directive, as has been mentioned a few times here. The VVD is very happy with that. However, the debate has focused on the Mining Act, which is currently being amended by the Minister. The VVD also knows about the concerns of the inhabitants of Groningen. It was the VVD who supported the binding declaration of the opinion of the Technical Committee on Soil Movement. It is a pity that so few people take advantage of this possibility. Can this be due to the lack of information or is it not an active reference to this possibility possibly a problem? There are now a large number of complex cases. The NAM has indicated that these complex cases are all gone in 2015. Is it possible to get half a year in the middle of the year, so we know they're really on the road? Then I think of July 1st. It is essential that these complex cases are resolved and that it is clear that there will be a solution, because these people deserve that solution. Hopefully half of all cases will be resolved by mid-year and by the end of the year, because that is what everyone deserves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u99	The Minister has indicated that he can answer correctly, so I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u100	Madam President. Thanks to the spokesmen for their contribution in second term. The first motion I have received is a motion by Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mrs Mulder. They don't want the butcher to approve his own flesh. The government is therefore invited to indicate in the selection criteria for the independent expert that it cannot be employed by the company from which it checks the installations. This motion is not the supreme wisdom. You also have a lot of responsibilities in the government. Part of that government are regulators. Those supervisors are independent and can also function independently if you have properly arranged that. The same applies to large companies. They may also arrange the matter in such a way that the staff responsible for the verification can do their work independently. This is also recognised and, in particular, so appointed by the European Union in the current directive. That option is expressly left open. The criteria for this independence will be laid down and applied by us. That will be monitored by the SodM. Also, someone who is not employed by Shell can still depend on Shell. For example, if you work for a small company that is entirely dependent on Shell, you may be much less independent than if you work well within the large Shell organization. The fact that you are not employed by the company in itself does not mean that a problem would have been solved. In view of the possibility which the European Commission has expressly opened up, given that there are also alternatives where what we are now proposing also appears to be possible in practice, given that in the event of non-employment there may be dependence, given that criteria are laid down which are monitored by the State, and given that this motion does not lead to an improvement, I would advise the Van Veldhoven/Agnes Mulder motion in section No. 30. I come to the Smaling motion in part No. 31. I'm in the middle of a trial in Limburg. I've been there a number of times. I have already discussed this with several stakeholders on several occasions. After having had a discussion with the Chamber about this, I launched a large-scale investigation. I await that investigation and intend to do what is desired on that basis. I do not wish to deviate, in anticipation of the results of that investigation, from the legal limitation period which is deliberately included in the Civil Code. The motion for a resolution states that a new fact is to be taken into account, namely that a pump should be discontinued in 1994 and that the legal limitation period should be linked to this new fact. I can't take care of that. I will wait and see what the investigation will lead to, and I will take my position on that. But at the moment I would like to stick to the legal limitation period as set out in the Civil Code and not to anticipate it. That is why I am referring to the Smaling motion in part No. 31 detachment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u101	Is the Minister sure that there is no new fact in the legal sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u102	Mr Smaling always listens very carefully. He has heard me tell you twice how I see this issue. I will not do it a third time, unless Mr Smaling wishes to do so. It was my story about the German company that, because of the continued extraction in Germany, pumped up the water in the Netherlands and, when the extraction stopped in Germany, stopped in the Netherlands. That is a fact that concerns Germany and not the Netherlands. For this reason, I believe that there is no new fact that the limitation period, which began in 1994, would stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u103	I know the Minister said that. I am not concerned, however, with Germany, but with the fact that there was another geohydrological regime in the Dutch subsoil in 1994. That's the point. It's about the houses in Landgraaf, Kerkrade. As far as I am concerned, the relationship with Germany is not important if you look at the damage that Dutch homes have because that water has not been pumped away. Is that a new fact in the Dutch legal context of that area, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u104	I know those houses; I've been in those houses. I talked to those people. I've spoken to the mayors, to the aldermen, to the deputies. I know about that situation. Where it was supposed to be mining damage, other findings from research have also emerged. We have now launched a very large-scale investigation to investigate everything that is going on there technically and then to look at what measures need to be taken on the basis of that research. Pending that investigation, I am not going to question the legal limitation period. On the new fact, which has been mentioned, I said what I could just say, namely that it is a new fact that relates to Germany and not to the Netherlands. In the Netherlands coal mining stopped in 1974 and, after my conviction, no new facts have since occurred which would have prevented the legal limitation period. I therefore believe that this legal limitation period has now been exceeded. That does not alter the fact that the investigation is being initiated and that I await the results. Then I come to the motion on part No. 32 by Mrs Van Tongeren and Mrs Van Veldhoven. It states that all non-business sensitive SodM information on compliance with the relevant legislation should be made publicly available and made available via the website. I have indicated that I believe that the relevant information should be public. I have also indicated that the SodM is now working on a communication plan to regulate this in a good way; that plan comes before the summer. I ask the proposers to wait and see. I think it would be wiser than to give a ruling on this in advance. Before the summer, I will come up with that extraction plan, and I would ask the authors to hold this motion so that they can assess what will come out of it. They may then consider whether it is necessary to give a different ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u105	Can the Minister explain why this motion is not seen by him as supporting policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u106	Because I've indicated there's going to be a communication plan. It contains what can reasonably be made public and how that could be done. I've expressed that intention. I do not think it would be useful to make any further comments on this matter. Those statements add or repeat something new to that or what I have said. I do not think that the latter makes any sense. That is why, in both circumstances, I would like to discourage these motions. In the motion in part No. 33 Mrs Van Tongeren wanted to see whether tax rules for donations should be adapted so that they did not put a brake on compensation and prevention in mining activities. The investigation that Mrs Van Tongeren is asking for in this motion seems to me to be a sensible one. That is why I leave this motion to the House. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 34 in which Mrs Ouwehand asks the government to include in the Structural Vision an exclusion for mining activities in or near Natura 2000 sites. I think it's good to wait for the Structure Vision Underground and then see what kind of interests are under the ground. Of course, those interests are conflicting. You have to look at the importance of what you think is most important and what conditions you may have to impose on it. It may well be that, alongside certain Natura 2000 sites, something can happen. All kinds of variants are conceivable for that. I'd like to look at it in the Structure Vision Underground. We examine them all and come up with a vision. The cabinet then takes a position on this matter and submits it to the Chamber. I think this is the right way to deal with these things. I don't want to jump to conclusions even before the Structure Vision Underground gets there. That is why I want the motion in part No. 34 dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u107	I do not understand the Minister very well, because wind energy at sea also plays this role. The Minister also does not know exactly what is going to happen and what is not going to happen within the framework of ecology. However, he already knows that I am pleased that windmills should not be located in or near Natura 2000. He promised that in the debate we had on this. I don't understand why such a thing couldn't apply to mining activities. And so you say: Natura 2000 sites, which are important sensitive areas, must not deteriorate further. It is therefore not a good idea to allow mining activities to take place there, just as we do not think it is a good idea to place windmills there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u108	For the Structure Vision Underground a very large research is done. A large policy piece, a policy vision, is being drawn up which reflects all the interests involved in the subsurface. Considerations and choices are made and decisions are made. I think it is very sensible to look at this in conjunction and then make statements. I don't think it's wise to prejudge that. That's why I'm dissuading this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u109	But then I don't understand the difference with the way we handle it at sea. Also in the North Sea it is not exactly quiet. There, too, there are various activities and interests that need to be weighed against each other. Of this, I would like to emphasise once again that I am pleased that we are protecting Natura 2000 sites from wind turbines because they can have an impact on those areas. There too, there are interests. I do not understand why the conclusion can be drawn there: we are not going to do that; we should not. It is not an obligation to do these things in Natura 2000. That is not the case. Why can't we do that in mining?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u110	That is because in the North Sea there is not a similar process as in the Structural Vision Underground. In the North Sea, however, there is a policy vision about the wind farms that need to be realized there. A roadmap has been drawn up for this purpose and large sums have been earmarked for this purpose. This year's first tender will go out for that. As a whole, we have taken decisions on this. On land we do have a process like the Structure Vision Underground. That is why I have come to the conclusion that I have just expressed. I have already dealt with Mrs Van Veldhoven. Mr Smaling pointed out that it would be good for the situation in Groningen that the broadest possible composition in the Chamber would give rise to confidence that we agree. I think he and I would also like us to agree with the municipalities and the province on what needs to be done. I think that's important, too. That is why I am trying very hard to align as much as possible with the Chamber. I can assure him that I did the same tonight. That is why I have worked very hard twice to reach an administrative agreement with the province of Groningen and with the municipalities. I've done it both times. That is why I have now reached agreement with them on a national coordinator to be appointed. That is why I am going to set up an intergovernmental public service in Groningen, in which Rijk, county and municipalities will work together, so that we can act as a unit. I also think that the broad support that Mr Smaling attaches to is important. Mrs. Klever already indicated what she's coming with next week. I shall be happy to discuss this with her and with the other members of the Chamber. I have dealt with both motions by Mrs Van Tongeren. Mr Vos has indicated that he wishes to stick to his amendments. I've taken note of that. Mrs Ouwehand says that I do not want to look seriously at less gas extraction in Groningen. That's a misunderstanding. Before I arrived, the volume was 47 billion m. The first year I was there, it was 53 billion m. That's when all the tests were done. In the meantime, it has been reduced to 39.4 billion m this year. In accordance with the ruling of the Council of State, I have informed the Chamber that it will not be more than 36 billion m this year. For the first six months we have set it at an even lower level. We are now going to decide on 1 July on the scale of gas extraction this year. So that could also be lower than the 39.4/36 billion m, which I was just talking about. I have also indicated that, before 1 January, we are going to look at another system, from which there could also be a lower level. So I'm working on the volume of the gas extraction. I do so with great conviction, because I think that the solution in Groningen must come from two sides: the volume of gas extraction and the strengthening of houses and other buildings. I also had to take note of Mrs Mulder's conclusion on the amendment tabled by Mr Vos and Mrs Ouwehand, on which I gave my opinion. Mr Bosman had two questions for me. One question was: why is there so little use of the arbitration option? He doesn't think that's a desirable situation. I agree with Mr Bosman. So I can't be satisfied with how that works right now. In fact, I would like to see, if things drag, there be an arbitration soon and those who have an interest in it also see the importance of arbitration and want to make use of it. So I am going to make an effort to see how I can improve this, so that more use is made of it and things can be resolved more quickly. Mr Bosman's second point concerns complex cases. I have indicated that we want them to be resolved by the end of this year. He said, "In the middle of the year, state what's going on." Mr Bosman and I must realise the following with regard to resolving these matters. It may also be that at some point you make a very last bid and put it down. If that is refused, then it may be that the case has been dealt with but that there is nothing left but to go to court. The solution cannot only be that the person who asks gets what he wants. There must always be a reasonable outcome. So also closing the file and leaving it to the judge can be a solution. I think it is useful to give the overview requested by Mr Bosman in the middle of the year. I will ask the NAM to make that statement and to make sure that it comes to the Chamber in good time. Madam President, I have dealt with the amendments. I have also answered the questions and comments. I would like to thank the Chamber for the opportunity it has given me this afternoon and this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u111	I would like to thank the Minister for his second-term reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u112	I have an administrative announcement to make. Since we have tabled an amendment together with the PvdA on the possible grounds for rejection, I would like to withdraw the earlier amendment tabled by GroenLinks myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u113	What is the amendment, Mrs Van Tongeren?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u114	This is about the amendment to item No. 9. We would like to see the amendments on item Nos. 9 and 11 move in. The amendment in part No. 11 is about SodM. At this point we come to a motion together with the PvdA, because we only have one of the options in the amendment. The Minister does have a point if he indicates that there are several options he would like to have looked at. We consider the amendment on the advice of municipalities, provinces and water boards to be very important and we maintain it. We also consider the amendment on the various grounds for rejection to be very important and we maintain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u115	Mrs van Tongeren, it is only important to know which amendments you are withdrawing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u116	The amendments to item No. 9 and 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u117	The Van Tongeren amendment (Doc. 9) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u118	I have one more question for the Minister. I have made putting my amendments to the vote dependent on the time-limit for the Minister to come up with a new amendment to the Mining Act which incorporates the recommendations of the Safety Research Council. That will determine for me whether or not I am going to put these amendments to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u119	I'm going to work on that as quickly as possible. That means I'm going to try to get this through an emergency opinion from the Council of State. I hope for the best cooperation of all those involved in that process. It's now the middle of April. This should enable me to submit a comprehensive proposal for amending the Mining Act to the Chamber at the beginning of mid-October.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u120	I thank the Minister once again for coming to the Chamber and I also thank the Members for their input.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-10.u121	The amendments and motions will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
