ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Being a driver in a county is a very busy job. There is also a very high remuneration for this. Deputys receive about one tonne, Commissioners around one and a half tonnes. Most provincial directors are very busy with it, but some are not. Some of us aren't busy at all. Some are bored and have a lot of time left for all kinds of expensive side jobs. As an example, Deputy Markink in Gelderland, who, in addition to his tonnes as a deputy in 2013, also raised an additional tonne of additional jobs, for example at a large cattle feed company, at two educational institutions and at an accountancy organisation. The differences between provinces are large, because while in Gelderland there is a lot of work to be done, they agreed in Overijssel not to do so. There are also differences individually. Some drivers who earn extra money deposit that in the county's cashier and some drivers keep the money themselves. Next week's elections will be for the Provincial States, so I ask the Minister if we can set a standard today. Can we say here today that driving in the province is a serious job, a busy job, with a particularly high remuneration? And can we say here that someone who is a Commissioner or a deputy should not have all kinds of side jobs, should not bring in all kinds of extra money, if only in order to avoid conflict of interest? Is the Minister prepared to meet that standard with us here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Raak asks for a standard for secondary functions of provincial directors. The law has set standards for secondary functions of provincial directors, namely that they should be submitted to Provincial States and that they should be public. The income from these functions should also be calculated in the same way as that of members of parliament's secondary income. The first piece shall not be deducted, half of the main income shall be repaid above 14%. Within these legal standards it is then up to Provincial States to assess how much room is being given to the King's Commissioner or to delegates to actually perform side functions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u3	It is true that there are all kinds of laws and rules, but the differences are very large. In Gelderland there is a lot of extra work and extra money, but not in Overijssel. There are also other differences. In Limburg the directors have 22 side jobs and in some provinces 0. And also individually, drivers deal with that differently. What always strikes me is that when they choose a side job, it is often said that they do so in order to keep in touch with society and to get their feet in the mud. Can the Minister explain why this is never a job in home care, on a vmbo or in the plant health service? Why are these always supervisory jobs, jobs at lobby clubs, large companies, where large sums of money are being earned? Does the Minister agree with me that if a deputy gets a lot of money from a feed business, for example, while the province is also about farmers and agriculture, which is also very sensitive? So is the Minister prepared to say that it is better that provincial directors do not have side jobs, because being a provincial director is already a job? Or does the Minister say: I leave that to the Provincial States, I leave that to the voters? Then one should also opt for a party which, for example, gives up more than half of the fees. Then the Minister must say: if you want a good standard, the voters will have to vote for the SP next Wednesday, because then they will be sure that the money is being handled properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u4	So much for the Mission Time for Political Parties. The Netherlands is a rule of law, in which the law determines what is and is not allowed. In the case of people in political office, members of parliament and provincial directors, unlike ministers, did not choose to ban it in law, but to set a number of standards. Transparency is one of those standards. A provincial director must submit it to the provincial states. Accounting standards have been agreed for income. That this can lead to differences per province follows from the legal system chosen. It may well be that the Provincial States in one province make the assessment that there are a number of secondary functions on balance, because this may lead to experiences in parts of the society with which you also have a lot to do as a provincial government. It may also be that another province doesn't like it. In their controlling role, provincial states will not be allowed to do so. That is the very nature of provincial democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u5	I heard the minister right. He's delivered a clear message. He says it's a political consideration of how extra earnings are handled. I agree with him. It is therefore a political balance that will have to be made. People have a choice, because a SP'er will deal with it differently than a VVDer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr Van Raak put it this way that the way in which extra earnings are dealt with is a purely political consideration. I had just indicated in reply to his first question that there are legal standards for this. Having extra earnings at all is not prohibited, not for MPs and not for provincial directors. When it comes to provincial leaders, it is the case that Provincial States, as local democracy, are monitoring them and are able to give an opinion on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u7	Minister Blok explains very clearly what the law is about, what the criteria are and what the responsibility of local authorities is. On the other hand, as a policy, we are dealing here with the aspect of political integrity and we see that there is a lot of extra income in the provinces. Does the Minister still want to recalibrate this point in the IPO so that it does not end up in the future? Is the Minister prepared to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u8	I think we should be careful in the division of roles between provincial democracy and us as the Lower House. In provincial democracy, the same questions will be asked as Mr Schouw asks. Is it careful to have side functions. Does this type of side functions fit? It is precisely the differences between the provinces that indicate that there really is a provincial debate on this issue. We also know examples of this from the publicity. I think it goes a long way to say as a national government: best provincial democracy, we would like to remind you of your responsibility. I am convinced that this provincial democracy is doing its job well and will also react critically if necessary; it also has the instruments to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u9	The Minister states that democracy at provincial level should do its job. Is it not true, however, that, as the questioner has just pointed out, the job of deputy is not a sufficiently serious job, because you can still have so many side jobs next to it? Isn't this much more of a sign and wouldn't it make much more sense to lift the provinces?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u10	Here is a proposal for a drastic state intervention. This is not the intention of the cabinet at the moment. It also seems to me to be a debate of a very different order than the question of what scope there is for secondary positions of provincial directors, MPs or other people with a public function.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mr Klein, second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u12	How does the Minister assess the comments of the VVD-deputy Markink, who says that he can only do his job well at the moment he is bound and that he can only be connected at the time he is working side-by-side? Apparently he has far too much time and can in fact be said: stop it!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u13	I find this for assessment to the Provincial States of, in this case, Gelderland. They are the ones who control their functioning, whether or not they have ancillary functions and are appropriate to them. I am convinced that the Provincial States of Gelderland exercise that function. It is not up to me as a minister to rule on this matter over their heads.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you for your answers and thanks for coming to the Chamber. I call Mr Hoogland.
