ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. It is good that we can pay attention to security within our prison system here today in Question Time. Once upon a time, we had very decent prison door locks. I've got another one on my table. It was still in my room, and I got it once when I left as director of a prison. Those are the heavy, solid sounds. You could open your hands to it, but that was the only thing. In the meantime there are much more ingenious ways to close and open those doors, but at the moment there seems to be a very big problem with that. This morning, the news came that there are again signals from the prison system that those prison doors can be locked from the inside. It's a lockdown that seems to be pretty simple. With a phone card, a note or a cardboard box, you put the door on hold and if the staff wants to go in, they can't get through. That is, of course, extremely dangerous. Previously it was very scary, especially when a prisoner wanted to put an end to his own life, but nowadays more and more people are sitting on a cell, sometimes very confused people. If a staff member then wants to enter, the door seems to be locked from the inside. This morning, the prison system sounded the alarm clock about it. The painful thing was that it had done that before. Now it says this again because the murder that was committed in Zoetermeer prison was possible to deal with and the staff had to watch how one of the prisoners killed another prisoner because the staff couldn't reach it. It's still under investigation, so we'd like to know from the Secretary of State if that's true. At the moment, it is true that in our prisons, unfortunately, the cuts in the ggz, are increasingly dangerous and disturbed people. If this is the way they can keep the staff out of the door, that's a big problem. We really want to know one thing from the Secretary of State today: how is he going to ensure that this can not happen again and will he be standing next to the staff again so that it is taken seriously?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. I can answer some of the questions anyway and another part is about something that is still under investigation. The impression that it has one to do with the other, that someone was killed because of this lock, is not something that I can now give ultimate clarity because there are two more investigations going on, an internal investigation by DJI and an investigation by the police, but at first hearing that is not the scenario that I would like to confirm here. Quite apart from the question of whether or not it has happened in that particular case, it is, of course, a worrying signal that doors can be simply locked. The doors placed in prison aren't just picked up anywhere near the hardware store. They have to meet all kinds of requirements. This is technically called the resistance class SKG2 with test protocols. Those test protocols also use the examples of pieces of cardboard or telephone cards to see if that door is indeed resistant to this. I do not think that we should leave it at that, because many people are in prison who are often creative, do not naturally follow the rules and also have a lot of time to think if there is another method of sabotaging or locking the door from the inside. So every time there's an incident like this, we have to figure out how it happened. I do not want to give the impression that it is very common. The test protocol must also include the question of whether we can prevent the door from being blocked in this way. At least so important is that such a door should not be too long to open from the outside, for example by removing the cylinder or removing the locking bowl. The last major report that came out of this was a tragic one, namely the Schiphol fire. After that, all these protocols and rules have been strengthened and entered into force. We take the signals from the workplace very seriously, because one can see much better in the workplace what happens every day than I can from the ministry. Following these signals, we contacted the works council. The or indicated that he had read it this morning, but that he did not want to underline the distress call of the signal as such. That does not alter the fact that we continue to take all the signals seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-5.u3	That's very good. I am a little worried about how things sometimes go with the construction of prisons. When De Ley's prison was opened, there was a knuckle at the door where you would open your whole hands if you had to open it. It was said that the door fits into all the protocols and tests, but they had never called in a staff member to see how such a door closes. Unfortunately, this cabinet has almost turned the staff in prison into key farmers. Well, they can really figure out how to open a door properly. So is the staff sufficiently involved? Now that we're standing here, I think it's good to say that they're often steel doors and that it happened quite often that those things were powered up. Is that also being looked at specifically? We have also understood that from the point of view of care there is a plan to better accommodate confused people. Is the Secretary of State sufficiently involved? When people who are totally insane are sitting behind a door in the program we now have in the prison system, they get so crazy at some point that they try everything with that door.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-5.u4	In a broad sense, it is considered whether there is reason to make changes, sometimes by creatively thinking ahead about what you could do from the cell, but also from incidents. We'll always have to deal with situations in prison where you have to be on your guard. The environment can never be 100% controlled, which means that you really wouldn't need any more staff, so to speak. You need those staff, because the creativity of people who are not naturally inclined to follow the rules always requires vigilance. The problem of confused persons is getting more and more attention, especially within the DJI. The relevant ministries are working closely on how to prevent a confused person from being noticed so late that he ends up in prison, but also how to deal with that person in prison. That is one of the things that is at the top of the list when it comes to the quality of the prison system and detention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-5.u5	Thank you. It's a good thing the Secretary of State wants to take this seriously. Then let me say one more cry today. We know that there are increasingly sophisticated cell doors. It has become known abroad that prisons were hacked, opening all doors at once. That must not happen in the Netherlands. Let that be a warning to the Secretary of State for the opening of a new prison not to rely too much on electronics and, in conversation with the works council, to ensure that people know themselves safely. They deal with the well of our society. They need to know how safe they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-5.u6	I certainly agree with the latter. The advantage is perhaps also that I do both cybersecurity and the prison system, so that I am at least aware of what is possible and what we need to prevent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-5.u7	Since communication within the Ministry of Security and Justice is not always flawless, to put it in an understatement, I would ask the Secretary of State whether it is true that the Committee on Safety, Health, Well-being and the Environment warned about this issue years ago. If so, how come nothing has been done with these signals?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-5.u8	That's what I checked. I understand that this is a sub-committee of the works council. At least that is what I hear from them now that nothing would have been done about it. However, the hardware in prison, so to speak, is of course permanently a matter of attention. You shouldn't think, "Oh, it's safe now, so it stays safe." You have to keep looking at it permanently, in my view, precisely as a result of incidents, how to improve it. That's as far as I've been able to figure it out today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-5.u9	The Bijlmerbajes is replaced by a prison in Zaanstad. That building is still to be built. Who amazes me? My group has already said this when I read that those who are going to help make the doors of that prison are the prisoners themselves, namely those in Zwolle? My group welcomes the fact that prisoners are working, but this cannot be the intention. Does the Secretary of State agree with my group?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-5.u10	There has indeed been an invitation to tender whereby other prisoners make the doors, but not the locks. They'll be placed later. A final inspection is carried out by an engineering firm and the locks are supplied separately. We have the idea that by doing so we have installed enough locks on the door in the process to prevent the line from being made by inmates and will therefore have a key.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-5.u11	Mrs Helder's second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-5.u12	That all sounds very funny, but the best security is not to let the prisoners participate in this project. I hope the Secretary of State will return to his steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-5.u13	I wasn't aware I was being funny when I told you the truth. We have ensured in the trials that prisoners do not work on the locks. In our view, that is enough guarantee to prevent this from being a problem in keeping the doors closed at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-5.u14	I thank the Secretary of State for his answers and for coming to the Chamber.
