ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. I hear praise from the opposition for the minister, and that in campaign time. It shouldn't get any weirder. However, they are really serious. In several places we have been able to read, even in Brabant, that the Justice Department is going to tackle hemp growing harder. It doesn't make any sense. Let us also congratulate Chief Prosecutor Nieuwenhuizen here today, who rightly says that we must get rid of the romantic image of the satisfied sticker. Soft drugs make you lame. It is organised, seriously undermining society, crime, which is also very damaging to public health. The state's attorney's office is standing by and radically rejecting another drug policy. We want to hear from the Minister of Security and Justice today that he intends to keep course on this point. His colleagues in the Labour Party, encouraged by Dr D66, proved to be sensitive to the lobby of the soft drug industry. We have also not forgotten that the Labour Party had invented in the Senate in order to achieve regulated weed cultivation. Some Labour Mayors' Party even go so far and act directly against cabinet policy. Nieuwenhuizen rightly says: the organised cultivation proposed here and there really does not lead to a pleasant, cozy society. It's just not gonna happen because there's always gonna be a big circuit outside the government. We want to know today from the Minister how he is going to take action against these naive and disruptive balloons. We also have other major concerns. Lower judges increasingly judge in a very coulant way about hemp growing and the hemp trade. That's what's really bothering us. We hope that the Supreme Court will destroy these statements. If this doesn't happen, does the Minister have plan B ready? We do not want the drug criminals to get off the ground because we have believed too long in the myth of the ugly use of drugs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mrs Van Toorenburg for her very clear questions. It's actually a simple question about the familiar road, looking at me. Of course I'll keep my course on this point. That's crystal clear. Both in this house and across the street, we have been absolutely clear on what drugs policy the cabinet is pursuing. It is not for nothing that the chief officer of the East Brabant district speaks such crystal clear language. That's his responsibility. As a representative of the Public Prosecutor's Office, of course, he also carries out the policy we are pursuing. I have always said to all those mayors, whom I received one by one, that we are not allowing pilots in this area at the moment. Mrs Van Toorenburg's last question was about case law. Of course, I too have taken note of the ruling of the judge in Groningen. The Public Prosecutor's Office has appealed against this, with my agreement but on his own initiative. We await the court's statements with confidence. There's absolutely no reason for me to have a plan B in my pocket. In fact, I believe that the policy we are pursuing on this issue is sound and that continuity and consistency in this area is also needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u3	It's a good thing the minister talks to the mayors all the time. However, I have one comment to make. He also talks to the mayors about their great concerns about capacity. We all know that the mayors in the south of the country, in Limburg and in Brabant, in particular, are at this moment in the dark. They indicate that they do not have a detective capacity to deal effectively with the real crime in the drug chain. We see that some capacity may have been released, but we are very concerned about where it comes from. We would also like to appeal to the Minister. The mayors say that it is a good thing that action is being taken, but do they have the capacity to actually move forward? I am referring in particular to the capacity of detectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u4	Indeed, as Mrs Van Toorenburg pointed out, an additional team has been set up in the South. There is an additional capacity of 125 people: three times 25 people from the various regional units and once 50 people of top quality from the National Unit. The mayors, the Public Prosecutor and the police have said that we want this serious drug crime to be brought down. Hence the firm statements made by Chief Officer Nieuwenhuizen. He would never do it if he had no capacity. In this respect too, therefore, I have great confidence in the approach taken by the authorities in the South. That is also very necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u5	We've heard quite different sounds from the mayors. Take the mayor of Maastricht, who says that they are really sinking through the ice with regard to the fight against organised crime. I haven't heard the Minister say that yet. We also heard something else. In important articles in the Dagblad van het Noorden it says that only twelve detectives are available there because they are completely emptyed for solving a number of problems in Brabant and Limburg. Of course, as a Brabant, I say, "Hooray, Brabant is in order." But of course it must never be the case that other parts of the Netherlands end up in big trouble. So there's only 12 detectives left in the North. If at the moment they can solve a little heavier matters than they can solve on average, move them to a national team, that team says they don't have time for that and it shifts everything back to the North nicely. We want the Minister to stand for all regions. It can't be that, like the southern mayors, we're on our way! Get out! Get out! Get out! Get out! Get out! Get out! We'd like to get another reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u6	I have also received and answered written questions about this. Well, at least I took the answers off. So they will reach the Chamber. As far as the situation in the North is concerned, it has not been properly quoted. There is a considerable effort to be made. I have said that there are a number of major operations in the country. We make choices. On the one hand, there is the problem of liquidation in Amsterdam, where capacity of the rest of the Netherlands also necessarily goes. On the other hand, there is additional capacity in the south of the country, including Limburg. However, it is not from the other units, but from the National Unity. So there are high-quality people, including detectives, going there to deal with the major organised crime there. And it is as Mr Nieuwenhuizen says: no one can escape the dance there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you for your answers and thanks for coming to the Chamber
