ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome you all and wish you a good debate. A special word of welcome for the Secretary of State, the people in the public gallery and all those watching at home. The speaking time shall be three minutes per group. I propose that a maximum of two interruptions be put in two rounds per group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. In December, I requested this debate on the black book Behind the façade II on abuses in mental disability. Let me start right away: I've known the people behind this black book for far too long. As long as I am a Member of Parliament, they are raving at the doors because they are not heard, because care institutions wrote manuals on how to keep difficult parents out of the door and on how to impose a ban on them from entering the institution area, to isolate them. We held a debate on it in this Chamber in 2008. Back then, Secretary of State Bussemaker summoned the Association of Disabled Care Netherlands (VGN) to withdraw that hand-out how to keep difficult parents out of the door. But these people are still rattling at the door. They still have a story. Insufficient trained staff, fraud, abuse, unexpert supervisory boards, a great injustice of law. It's just a selection of the abuses listed in the black book. When you read the reports, you are shivering, because you know that behind all these reports there are more reports, that it is a tip of the iceberg. It is about dependent people, about parents talking about their children who will never be independent and who are looking for a safe place to believe that their child is safe and gets the best care. And then they get to deal with closed doors, referring and ridiculing their complaints. That is not only unacceptable, but also terrible to experience. That is why I am a little surprised at the reaction of the Secretary of State. He says, "We're working on it, and everything will be resolved." If only, I told the Secretary of State. In the broadcast of Kassa in early December, the black book was presented along with the story of a woman who had found that there was no toilet in her sister's institution. The residents couldn't go to the bathroom. She moved her sister to another care facility and fortunately it's going well there, but not everyone can move their relatives, not everyone has a relative who's gonna stand up for you if things don't go well. I have a question on which I expect a commitment from the Secretary of State. A quality agenda for care for the elderly has been drawn up. Can he get disability care to go along with that? Otherwise, we may have to ask for it again in a year or two years' time, when we are now putting a lot of energy into that quality agenda. In my view, the Secretary of State can simply say: this also applies to disability care. Secondly, I would like to find a solution for all those people who are rattling at the doors and are not being heard. That is bad for the institutions that are doing well. That's not good for the picture of our concern. Isn't it possible for some kind of patient authority to come? There are already independent complaint committees where you can go, but a patient authority could bring that together. You have to be able to go to such an authority. The inspection is only about quality. A certain foundation may only be about the Health Insurance Act. But what if you're standing in front of a closed door when you say that there's no toilet for your sister, that your sister in the institution can't go to the bathroom? Well, you can't technically go anywhere. Then you can only move your sister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u3	Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u4	Wouldn't it be a good idea to set up a kind of Dutch patient authority that conducts independent research, makes a binding ruling and, in the case of structurally identified problems, gives us the opportunity to advise us to change policies?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u5	Mr. Chairman. The Stichting Klokluiters Verstandelijk Gehandippen Zorg has presented an impressive black book. Whatever's in there will come in. It's a sad black book, full of disappointment, so one of the newspapers headlined about it. The PvdA is pleased that the foundation has prepared this black book. People with intellectual disabilities and their families should always be able to count on the care they receive to be just right. Fortunately, a lot is also going well, but abuses, especially if they are structural, do not fit in a civilized country like ours. Disability care needs to be improved and, as far as I am concerned, this is one of the reasons why long-term care needs to be changed. I would like to raise two questions in the debate and, not entirely coincidentally, I believe that these are the two pressing questions in the black book. How do we strengthen the position and control of clients and client councils? And how do we improve the quality of disability care? The Labour Party wants to strengthen people's control. Not the standard indication or the standard offer of a healthcare provider determines how you live your life, because that is up to you, together with your family and the healthcare professionals who support you. The WMO and the Wlz include amendments from the PvdA and D66 that give people the right to make their own care plan. That gives people more control over their lives and solutions that fit their lives. But what if people are critical? It is not appropriate for healthcare providers to turn critical clients and family members away as difficult. We really want clients, family and client councils to be listened to. The PvdA has argued this weekend to strengthen the position of the client councils, for example by giving client councils their own budget to be able to hire advice. What further measures will the Secretary of State take to organise sufficient counter-power? We read that healthcare agencies do not do much with the criticism they receive from clients about healthcare organisations with which contracts have been concluded, but care agencies have been given a more important task by the Wlz. What can customer support for clients and their families mean and improve on this point? My second point concerns improving the quality of disability care. In fact, we see many parallels with the discussion we are having about care for the elderly. In dealing with the Wlz, the PvdA asked with other parties for a renewal agenda for long-term care, because the reform of care is not only about the change of laws, but also about improvements in practice. This renewal agenda is currently being drawn up with innovative parties, including the clients themselves, and should be ready by the summer. Quality of life for clients, space for care professionals and less complexity and bureaucracy are central to this. Healthcare professionals are now spending too much time on things that have nothing to do with care at all: filling out paperwork and lists. The same applies to clients: what bureaucracy they sometimes encounter. Last Monday we saw a nice example of that at Pauw, or actually a bad example. That's where we saw Brigitte laughing at her passport photos. Those photos are always rejected, even though Brigitte has an intellectual limitation that makes her laugh all the time. Actually, that's very nice, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u6	Can you finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u7	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna finish up. Can the Secretary of State state state the state of play on the renewal agenda and then specifically on disability care? And what can we learn from experiences in the black book?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u8	I am actually curious to hear what the Labour Party thinks of the proposal to set up an independent committee or authority in case all the doors are locked and there is no ruling in a conflict. People should be able to go to that committee for a binding ruling. What does the PvdA think of this proposal in the black book? These people have had the experience for years that doors are closed, their problems are ridiculed and put away when they do have a point. How does Mr Van Dijk feel about the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u9	I think we are all looking for measures that help to remove the impotence that people feel. People often have the feeling that they are standing in front of a closed door or that their care organisation is looking away. In fact, Mrs Leijten has set an example in the past of critical people who are being rejected. We have made the proposal to strengthen the client councils by, for example, giving them their own budget. There are more proposals in the black book and I think we should look together for measures that do the best justice to the feeling of powerlessness of those people. We need to do something about that, and that is why I think it is a good proposal. However, I am still looking for what will or will not help to remove that feeling of impotence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u10	Your follow-up question, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u11	One of the things that helps is that an independent committee looks at it. That must be different from the way it is now. The Secretary of State's reply states that it is a client council after all, and it is connected to an institution again. Mr Van Dijk also knows that this can sometimes be an institution's policy. If the doors are closed everywhere, should we ensure that we open a door, and that there is an independent ruling, allowing people to move on with their lives? I really hope that the PvdA will be able to support the proposal I am about to put forward. I don't give a shit what it's gonna be like. If it is not a question of quality on which the inspection alone judges, it is precisely in this concern that the doors are closed. I think that is bad for everyone, including the sector itself. I therefore hope that the Labour Party will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u12	I think Mrs Leijten and I are both looking for a method of dealing with people's impotence. I myself have read the example of health offices. They also have an important role to play in this, including when it comes to regulating customer support and the somewhat softer but very meaningful aspects for people. But they too keep the door shut. We must also do something about this. To be honest, I think that we should look together for measures that will help us to do something about it. I am quite sympathetic to it, Mrs Leijten, but I think we should look for things to help.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u13	Mr. Chairman. You might think that the quality of disability care is not so bad at all. The Inspector-General recently gave the sector a compliment. But the Black Book of the Whistleblowers Intelligible Disabled, a group of parents with children in disability care, shows a very different picture. Last month we received the response of the Secretary of State to this black book. Something's gotta give me a break; let me start with that. The Secretary of State's motto is: from systems to people. But in the six months that I have seen the portfolio of my colleague, Mr Bergkamp, every time I read the letters, I notice something in this reaction of the Secretary of State: it is not about people at all, but it is about the systems. It's a cool, distant attitude I see in those letters. Every time, it's so little about putting people at the centre. This is true of the letter of 17 March, but we also see it in relation to the pgbs and in the quality letter of care for the elderly. Older people care and disability care are two very different sectors, but the problems are very similar: regular poor care, inadequate control and supervision, not listening to clients or their representatives, a closed culture in which mistakes are swept under the carpet and complaints are not taken seriously instead of being seen as an opportunity to learn. Now the Secretary of State is working on a National Disability Program. The assignment for the elaboration was given last week. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State today what his specific ambitions are for this programme. I'd like to know more about that. Can the Chamber expect the detailed plan for the summer, and when will we see the real changes? The disabled sector has been working for a number of years to identify quality, which is the Quality Framework for disability care. This is very positive, but it is still very difficult for parents who are looking for a good home for their disabled son or daughter to obtain objective information about the quality of a particular form of housing and to compare different forms of housing. D66 wants this information, as with care for the elderly, to be available quickly and easily, for example via a website. That may also be kiesBeter.nl, if that website has been improved by now. Will the Secretary of State undertake to do this in consultation with the sector? Finally, my final remark is that we are hearing alarming noises about ageing among health professionals in the disabled sector. Young, well-trained staff disappears again. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether he recognizes this image, whether he is prepared to conduct any research into it and what he is going to do about it. Would he like to look, in consultation with the sector and the training courses, at any bottlenecks in the field of development prospects and further training?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u14	That was beautiful in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u15	Mr. Chairman. This cabinet has been working from the start on an incredibly ambitious and complicated job, improving the quality of care and getting the cost of care under control. Predecessors of mine who sat in this Chamber on behalf of the VVD have said it before: instead of world champion cost long-term care we must become world champion quality. For us, it is important that the cabinet keeps its course. Real quality improvement requires a structural and fundamental approach. That is why we are pleased with the new Long-Term Care Act, which places the wishes of the people in need of care much more at the centre. With this, and with the renewal agenda, which comes at our request, there is a real need for personal funding. Less rules and more control on delivering quality rather than on all kinds of check-in lists. I would like to thank the Whistleblowers Stichting Verstandelijk Gehandippen for the written blackbook. My group takes the signals extremely seriously. It is good that this report, too, clearly states that it is not the case that the whole sector is working badly and that it is a question of more money to put it in order. Where things do go wrong, the VVD also finds it necessary to intervene firmly. There is no quick fix and it will never be that nothing goes wrong. As indicated earlier by the cabinet, a lot is being done to improve quality. Quality brings you up, so we need to make the care system more customer-oriented through greater openness about quality, demand-driven funding, a firm position of clients, well-educated staff and good governance. Many of these actions take a long time. This is already taking action on many of the Foundation's recommendations. I ask the Secretary of State to ensure, specifically with regard to disability care, that the awareness of the Dutch National Health Service is increased. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State if this is possible. A debate on the quality of care for the elderly took place in November. Following this debate, the Secretary of State undertook to develop a quality approach to long-term care. As far as the VVD is concerned, it also deals with the quality approach to disability care. The Secretary of State has indicated to our satisfaction that in 2015, in addition to care for the elderly, he will also address the quality of care in other sectors. In disability care, setting up a national disability care programme will be an important part of this. The black book reports on the lack of participation of clients. The VVD considers participation of client councils very important and therefore proposed last week to strengthen the position of client councils where possible. The VVD would like the cabinet to discuss this with the sector. We look forward to the results of that conversation with confidence. Finally, I would like to point out that although the VVD would like to see all the problems resolved yesterday, we must be cautious with all kinds of new plans and ideas. Above all, we must ensure that the effects of the movement that has already begun are actually achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u16	Thank you. Good in three minutes. Mrs. Leijten has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u17	You can strengthen everyone with participation, but what if all the doors are locked and you're not heard, even more so, if you're being ridiculed? The President of this Chamber, a member of Mr Potters' party, has been able to talk about this, because he has had many debates on these issues in the Chamber between 2006 and 2010. You see how close it can be when you can't get anywhere. One of the advices from Behind the façade is to ensure that people who are completely jammed in the system can report for an independent ruling, regardless of participation. Just now, the PvdA said in the second instance that care offices sometimes fail. As far as I'm concerned, a committee like this could be about care offices. Where the door is closed and does not open, and the citizen who is dependent on care and third party only stands...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u18	Can you come to your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u19	...there must be an independent committee that makes a binding ruling. What's the VVD like about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u20	As I pointed out in my speech, the VVD believes that we should take this issue seriously and that people should really be heard and be able to find an entrance, especially in the case of disability care. Let there be no doubt about that. We have already set up a number of institutions and bodies. We've got the National Health Dispatch. People can go there. We have the Inspection VWS, wherever people can go. For example, we have the National Ombudsman, where people can deal with their complaints. And then there's the clients' councils. I really do want to avoid that is the argument in my speech, which is that we are now going to set up something new, to ask people to think again about where to lodge their complaint and where to hear them, while we have existing institutions and instruments that simply have to function properly. I am from the school where we first try to make what is good work rather than send the citizen back to another window, because that only adds to the confusion. I understand your plea. I think we are on the same side of the rope, but let us first see how the existing instruments can work properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u21	The existing instruments, such as the National Health Information Point, do not solve anything and simply refer them through. They cannot resolve complaints and refer back to the institution. The inspection only picks it up when it comes to quality and not when it comes to other things in which you can get stuck. The National Ombudsman controls only the policies of the government and citizens who are stuck in them. This is private. The National Ombudsman is not about care institutions. He's said that before. He wrote in reports how, for example, the inspection kept the door shut when people came there with their concerns and complaints. That has also led to the IGZ going through a huge improvement process. The problem is, if you're really stuck, no one's gonna go over it with a binding verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u22	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u23	Let me give you another example. For disputes relating to the reimbursement of basic insurance we have an independent Disputes Committee. Why don't we expand it for the Wlz? That's where people can go. Whatever you call it, I don't care. I don't want a new window. Let us above all allow what is there to be, but let us ensure that we have the door pushed open where it is closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u24	I get the plea. I also understand that we should seriously consider the complaints and not send people from the locker to the wall. However, I also think that we should look at how we can improve the existing instruments. The Secretary of State is quite capable of judging that question. He can give consideration to that. I am not yet ready to think that we should go to this point, also from the point of view that citizens should have clarity about the instruments that work. We should not open a new door again, which makes it even more difficult to find the right window. I don't think that's wise. I share the view that we should resolve this properly, that we should take it seriously and that everyone should be heard when they have a complaint.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u25	Mr. Chairman. Today I am allowed to replace Mona Keijzer, our concerned healthcare professional, who otherwise always crosses the swords with all those other care spokesmen so involved in the Chamber. As a spokesperson for justice and home affairs, I had to swallow for a while. However, when I read the documents and realized who else was in the debate today, I thought: I do not have to do it at all like all these professional care spokesmen involved. Let me just put on my prison director's glasses. You should know that I grew up at Utrecht University, where Total Institutions of Goffman is still compulsory. I note that the rights of the mentally handicapped are still so far behind those of the prisoners in many areas which the parents consider most important. Then I am not as broad as Mrs Agema did with her well-meaning total principle law, but it is mainly about the right of complaint, about participation and about independent investigation in serious incidents. With regard to the right of complaint, the Secretary of State, in response to the so valuable and nasty black book that is now before us in the First Chamber, describes well what has been put into motion. He also discusses the National Health Service. That is, as Mrs Leijten rightly says, actually all invested in the responsible medical care. That doesn't always tackle everything. Look at the prison system, where the supervisory committees work. Those are not about the care. The care goes to the inspection... but purely about the treatment. How does an institution actually make up if it went wrong? How are mistakes solved? How are mistakes corrected, especially with regard to this independent treatment and taking clients and their parents seriously? They can really learn from that. Would the Secretary of State like to look into that? Perhaps that is also an answer to what Mrs Leijten says. The participation is perceived as a wash nose. If you don't take participation seriously as a prison director, you have a serious problem. Then the inspection will come along, as will the Supervisory Board and the Central Council for Criminal Application. Then you'll learn! How do we ensure, even within the care, that participation is taken much more seriously? Here again I see the comparison with the prison system. Finally, I would like to comment on the role of inspection in the event of very serious incidents in an institution, for example in the event of death. It is absolutely inconceivable that a prison should carry out its own investigation. Why do we offer a care facility that space? My colleague Mr Bruins Slot, together with the SP, and I believe also with D66, has indicated in the EenVandaag topicale programme that the inspection should always investigate a death, whenever there is any suspicion that something might have gone wrong. That space would never get a prison. Let us not put that space in the care institutions either. So look at the prison system with regard to complaint law, participation and independent investigation! It's awful to have to say it, but in those areas, care can learn a lot from the prison system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u26	In the first term of the Secretary of State, I will allow two interruptions in two. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u27	Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate is the black book of the Stichting Kloemluigers Verstandelijk Gehandippen (Stichting Kloemluigers Verstandelijk Gehandippen). The reports brought together conscientiously by the authors of the black book call for serious consideration. It is about inadequate communication, complaints that are not taken seriously, abuse, failing participation and improper use of care money. If you read the reports in this way and see the sum sum, then it is quite conceivable that those who have done these reports experience poor care quality. That's not acceptable. From the subjects of the black book it emerges that they affect the nature of care for people with intellectual disabilities, because it is care that is life-long and life-wide and where the relationship of dependence is perhaps the highest in all healthcare sectors. It is not just about the relationship between client and caregiver, but also between parents and caregivers. I read in all reports how difficult it is for parents to pass on care to an institution that does things differently, makes different choices and does not always involve parents, while these parents are highly experienced experts. Miscommunications then arises easily, leading to a lack of trust. The central question raised by the reports in the black book is: what is the overall quality picture of the sector? These reports cut through your soul, because these people experience that caring for their children is not good. We must do something about that. On the other hand, the Health Inspectorate concludes, for example, that the cultural change in disability care has already started and taken place and that results have been achieved. The quality of life becomes more important. Innovation is becoming more important. Much has been improved in the area of care and coercion. Knowledge and skill is of a higher level than before. And it's more common to call in outside help when care situations are at risk of jam. Enabling the CCE (Centre for Consulting and Expertise) and using more care are examples of this. Perhaps it would be a good idea to review what has been done in recent years to bring the quality of disability care to a high level. Between 2005 and 2012, dozens of organisations participated in the Improvement Programme Care for Better with specific themes such as the prevention of sexual abuse, problem behaviour, freedom limitation and social participation. For the disabled sector, the knowledge from Care for Better and the Improvement Programme Disability Care is included in a broad knowledge platform in which VGN, MEE Nederland, Vilans and ZonMw work together. Many institutions in the disabled sector have participated in the experiment of low-level institutions. Last but not least, the law on care and coercion describes a roadmap aimed at reducing compulsion and coercion in mental disability care. That bill is waiting for treatment in the First Chamber. There have also been significant improvements in Mrs Leijten's point of view in relation to complaints. The legislative proposal on complaint and quality health care obliges healthcare providers to have a complaint officer who helps to find solutions to complaints and who can take on an intermediary role. Since last year there has been the functioning National Health Service. These are the two images we have with each other. On the one hand, this is a sector which is in the process of improving quality, which has taken place in recent years. On the other hand, there are these reports, which are extremely intrusive, which point to the fact that in a number of places things are still not going well enough, which damage the confidence of clients and parents, which damage the whole sector and are particularly terrible for those who have to experience it. I take the complaints of the whistleblowers very seriously. We must appreciate the efforts made so far by the sector to improve quality, but things still need to be improved and these kinds of signals must be taken very seriously, because they determine the picture but above all because they are incredibly sad and sad for those involved, especially when you have to stand up for your child. In the current situation there are two groups of clients for whom care is sometimes inadequate. First of all, there is the group of clients with a slight intellectual limitation whose desire for their own direction sometimes leads to inadequate guidance; drug use and prostitution lead people to the brink of existence. Caregivers and parents come up against huge questions. These are often ethical dilemmas about how far care should go in protecting clients. In addition, there is the group of clients with a serious behavioural problem where there is still legal embarrassment. This can also lead to intense confrontations between the client, the caregiver and the caregiver. It has been on for a while: a while ago I was able to discuss in the Chamber the plan of approach to care for the elderly. That actually consists of two components. How can we make better use of the space that we have given and which will arise with the Long-Term Care Act? But above all: how can we create a specific programme to improve the quality of care for the elderly in our country and learn from the good examples and take the sector on a roll? It is a good thing that these improvements to the plan of action, Mr Van Dijk also asked for the renewal programme to apply not only to care for the elderly but also to the disabled. However, it would also be good to make a specific movement. We should not copy what has been done in the care of the elderly for the disabled, because sometimes this sector differs from the care of the elderly in essential respects. Together with the sector, we must come up with a plan of action that takes account of the individualities of the intellectually handicapped sector, in which the reports from the black book are heard and the underlying problems should be given a place. In particular, the issue raised by the Chamber, namely the relationship between the client, the caregiver and the caregiver, but also the communication to the institution, calls for my own interpretation in the disability sector as well. Where the disability sector can go along with the plan of approach for nursing homes with regard to supervision, administrative leadership and transparency, we can do so in the same way. However, I am also in favour of developing a separate approach specifically for the disabled sector, and this is also an answer to a question from Mrs Leijten about the nursing home sector. As far as I am concerned, this is done with, for and through the sector, but also with the participation of whistleblowers, who have raised a number of issues in this connection. They must, as far as I am concerned, take part in the development of this plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u28	I think it is very good that the Secretary of State has promised to do so. I also said in my term that I was looking for a commitment; I got it with this. It is a good outcome of this debate that this plan of action is coming. Let me give you a specific explanation. We have said that we are going to examine the occupation standard for care of the elderly, especially the staff. How this is going to take shape must, above all, be taught in practice. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take over that plan for the disability care sector as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u29	We must take into account all the ideas that have been developed for the care of the elderly and which may also apply to the care of the disabled or otherwise. I want to develop this, along with the plan of action for care for the elderly and nursing home, together with the sector and with the whistleblowers. As far as I am concerned, this kind of thing can also play a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u30	I am also pleased with this commitment. I just want to emphasise how important it is. The Secretary of State just talked about people with severe behavioral problems. That is the most difficult group of people to guide and take good care of. It is precisely in this group that we see that it is essential that there are permanent people on permanent groups. One change means that the balance is gone and that it can become very dangerous and unsafe for both staff and fellow residents. So I really hope that the Secretary of State will take the occupation standard and eventually develop it with employers and employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u31	I agree with that, but we also have to recognise that the problem sometimes occurs earlier. When parents are looking for a suitable institution for their child with serious behavioral problems, after having cared for their child for years, it is incredibly difficult to find a good match between the knowledge and skills of parents and sometimes also the grief and happiness that parents experience in caring for their child and on the other hand to transfer it to an institution that is not yet sure whether it is also able to provide the care that parents are used to or want. At the front is the question: how can you find a good attitude? The follow-up question is how, if an institution has been found, you can provide a team that is and remains suitable to take care of the child. These two aspects will certainly continue to play a role in the development of the plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u32	The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u33	I now come to a number of specific questions that have been asked. In addition to what we were talking about, Mrs Leijten also mentioned the complaints system, whereby people are sent from the locker to the wall and there are many hotlines. The VVD spokesperson also said: quite a few hotlines and facilities have been created. There are many hotlines in the field of care. These hotlines can also bring in complaints about care. The National Health Service has already been mentioned. This should help to create a single point of contact and improve the handling of complaints in the care sector. Collaboration arrangements have been made with the Patient Federation, LOC, the Ombudsman, the Consumers' Association, healthcare organisations and the Dutch Healthcare Authority, in particular to prevent people from being sent from the cabinet to the wall. I would also remind you of the Quality, Complaints and Disputes Care Act (Wkkgz), which obliges every healthcare provider to be a member of a dispute settlement body. That arbitration body shall make binding decisions. The bill is in the First Chamber. The further provisional report has been issued. Perhaps before the summer we can look forward to the discussion of this bill. Let's hope so. With all the hotlines we have and with the provision that is being made in the Wkkgz, we are taking an important step towards a complaint handling and dispute resolution that is less non-binding than we know today. In reply to Mrs Leijten's question as to whether there should be a single body, I think that with the National Health Information Point, with the facilities we have and with the dispute settlement body we have in the Wkkgz, her question has already been met to a large extent. Mr Van Dijk asked me more generally how we are going to improve the position of the client in disability care. He makes a fair point when he asks: how do we ensure that there is a counterweight, a balance of power when there is no balance of power?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u34	There is another interruption by Mr Van Dijk on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u35	Yes. That is why I heard in the debate between Mrs Leijten and Mr Potters that she should be independent. I have to tell you, I don't care where it happens. That is what I heard Mrs Leijten say. But there has to be this independent dispute resolution. Now I hear the Secretary of State say: the hotline has that function. I also think it is important to know who is helping those people who feel powerless and where this dispute resolution is taking place in order to consider proposals that are still being made by my colleagues. Where it happens, I don't care, but where does it happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u36	We need to distinguish between the hotline where people are helped to continue their complaints, to put it simply, and the Disputes Committee that we are going to settle with the Quality, Complaints and Disputes Care Act. That independent arbitration body must be there. It makes binding statements, which institutions must abide by. My thesis was, in response to Mrs Leijten's question: in addition to all the hotlines we have, we have the National Health Information Point, which leads us to a better complaint handling and guide for people who have a complaint, but soon we will get through the Wkkgz. I still have to get used to that abbreviation.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... With, far too simply put, a good signpost and binding rulings from the Disputes Committee, we will soon have a good system of complaint handling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u37	I understand that what is being asked by the Chamber, namely a place for dispute resolution, is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u38	Yes. In my view, we in the Wkkgz have arranged for a dispute body to be set up to make binding rulings, a body where people end up if they do not get out together with the institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u39	I'd still like to continue on that independent dispute committee. I myself dealt with the Wkkgz, the law on complaints and disputes in healthcare, here. At that time, an amendment by the SP was rejected to make the dispute resolution independent and the same everywhere. Now there will be regional complaints committees, where healthcare institutions have a proper voice in determining who comes in and where you have to go through a whole procedure within an institution before you can report there. Is that really the character of independence? What would be against it now, I say to the Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u40	Through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u41	... through the chairman, to have something like the Stichting Complaints and Disputes Healthcare Insurance investigate what is or is not reimbursed from the basic insurance? There's also a conflict between a citizen, a patient, and the health insurance company. Then comes a verdict that must be followed by all. Wouldn't that be possible for the Long-Term Care Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u42	That is possible, but Mrs Leijten is now prejudging the operation of the law with the difficult name, the Wkkgz. It is precisely in this that we have arranged that in all complaints and disputes in this country, in any field, it is necessary to first raise your complaint with the institutions themselves, often with the complaint officer. He'll see if the complaint can be resolved. If you are not satisfied with that, then you have an authority that can make statements about it. Now we have arranged this in a certain form in the Wkkgz. That law has yet to enter into force, because the bill is still in the Upper House. Why don't we give this a place? Let's see how this works before we want it to be different now, before the law is passed. I note that we are making provision for this. We cannot yet judge whether it works or not. I am fine with looking at that, but I note that this is coming. Perhaps we can still think about where it can be better organised and how we see the first experience. I'd like to wait and see. We should perhaps give the legislation that is already in this Chamber, but still needs to be implemented by the First Chamber, a chance to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u43	I note that we are not dealing with the First Chamber. It's just a question of whether that bill gets through that. The legislative proposal has been there for a long time and I think there has already been a second reading. Anyway, that's what the Senate's about. It is about giving people independent and binding advice. The Secretary of State says here that this comes with the Quality, Complaints and Disputes Care Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u44	Each healthcare provider should be obliged to join a dispute settlement body and make binding rulings. The question then is what we find to be independent and how we regulated it in the law. Mrs Leijten may not be satisfied with the way in which this is regulated by law. That is why she has tabled an amendment, but it has not been adopted. I note that we have made that law with each other. There will be a Disputes Commission that can make binding rulings. Let us give it all a bit of a chance. I will continue my speech. Mr Van Dijk asked how the client's position in disability care could be improved. I would like to say a few things about this. The Long-Term Care Act that we have adopted strengthens the client's position in various ways. First of all, there is more direction for the client and there is more room for customization. Customer support is regulated by the Long-Term Care Act and the care plans are legally anchored. There are also legally anchored forms of delivery, in which, among other things, the direction of the patient and the client is strengthened. We'll introduce more customization. We'll send in the care buy-in. Furthermore, there is an experimental article. What we have arranged in the Long-Term Care Act will help to further strengthen the position of the client, including in long-term care. Mr Potters pointed that out. In addition to that law, I would also like to come up with a plan of action on disability care. I just said that. The quality needs to be further improved at the same time as the debate we have had on nursing care. The central theme, in my opinion, should be the relationship between the client, the care provider and informal care. A strong position of the client or his representative is essential for a good relationship. I think Mr Van Dijk has a point to make here. Quality depends on how the participation, conversations and communication between healthcare provider, healthcare provider and client or his relatives are arranged. I would like to dwell on this in detail in the plan of action. In reply to Mrs Dijkstra's questions, I would also like to say that I see this strong position in a broad sense: well equipped to engage in dialogue and to have good choice information, because it is about representing the client perspective at institution level, for example through the client council. A number of proposals have therefore been made to improve the Customer Participation Act. Together with the Minister, I informed the Chamber about this in the letter of good governance in the care sector. The proposals range from a review and extension of the advisory right to adjust the right of inquiry for client representation or a work and training budget for client representation in client councils. I think that with this package, we can also achieve an important strengthening of the position of the client in the disability sector, the Long-Term Care Act itself, the Quality Programme and what we are also regulating in the Customer Participation Act. I have already said that we are going to make a separate plan for the quality of disability care. I would like to present that plan of action to the Chamber by November after I have developed it with the sector itself. So I intend to do that, as for the V&V sector, with the people who work in the sector themselves. I do not exclude the possibility of experiments in this approach either. When it comes to the scope for improvement initiatives, we wonder whether there are institutions in the V&V sector that can be the norm for the sector. I can imagine that this is how we are going to shape this in the disabled sector as well. Mr Van Dijk asked how this was in line with the renewal agenda. As far as I'm concerned, it hurts. I believe that many themes in the renewal agenda for long-term care are not linked to a sector and are the broad themes, but that we will have a specific approach to the disability sector. Moreover, I am very brave to send that renewal agenda to the Chamber in accordance with the commitment of 1 July. Mr Van Dijk hinted at it, but I very much intend to involve the conclusions of the black book and the role of whistleblowers in the development of the plan of action. In the black book a lot is about communication and sometimes also about experienced power differences. In the core, it is a bit harshly put, the whistleblowers themselves say it almost also about moral issues. They also say that it is often not a question of legislation and regulation; it calls for cultural change in a number of places, at least in the case of a number of healthcare providers. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the plan of action for disability care should cover not only legislation and regulation or other matters, but also a cultural change, the position and relationship of the client and their participation. It is about communication in the broadest sense of the word, between care institutions and clients and family, but also about internal relations of authority within institutions. I've spoken to the whistleblowers. We have agreed that they will consider improvements within the framework of the plan of action. Mrs Dijkstra asked a number of questions about Simply Special, the National Programme Disabled and the state of play...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u45	There is another interruption on the previous point; Mr Van Dijk's second.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u46	And then I'm through my interruptions. The renewal agenda called for a separate development path for care for the elderly and the disabled. I therefore welcome the Secretary of State's commitment to make separate development plans for this. However, I would like to return to the occasion of this debate, namely the black book and the powerlessness that people sometimes feel. Powerlessness is a feeling that you can only solve by standing next to people. One of the examples in the black book was that when people came in, care firms felt that they were health care buyers. However, healthcare offices have been given the position in the Long-Term Care Act not only to buy care but also to stand alongside clients. I wonder how the Secretary of State sees the role of health care agencies when people report to them for complaints.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u47	I think we are very much in agreement that the question of how to buy in good care is not a technical exercise of budgets or of which existing healthcare providers we have. The purchase of care is also determined by the views, wishes and signals given by the users of the care, the clients. As far as I'm concerned, the clients' views should be reflected in the care purchase by healthcare agencies. This can be stimulated by the fact that we have arranged customer support in the Long-Term Care Act. However, I very much agree with this, and I am also very willing to exchange it with the health offices. That the position of the client and the view on what quality is based on transparency should play a role in the care procurement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u48	I welcome this commitment. But what if an individual client doesn't come out with his healthcare provider? We have just talked about the trail of complaints and disputes, but sometimes people also report to a healthcare office. In the black book there were also a number of examples of people who didn't get through it. Can the Secretary of State respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u49	I cannot, of course, judge exactly what that is about. But let's say you have a complaint, you're not heard by the health care institution, and you don't get through it for your own good. Then you get to the healthcare office, which also says it can't help you, because it bought the care. The health care office says you have to resolve the dispute with your healthcare provider. I imagine that would be very frustrating. So, on the one hand, I think the health offices should just listen. They have to make sure that they stand next to the client, and at least they have to point the way if they can't solve the problem. However, I also think it is important that the two traces that we have just developed should be noted where can you report your complaints and get a good signpost and if there is a dispute, can it be resolved? It is a very important anchoring point. So I can imagine that healthcare agencies can't solve it, but at least they have to listen and point the way. I think we've got a good lead on those two anchor points. Then I'll be on the National Program Just Special. We are in the process of establishing a national programme for the disabled sector with many parties. That National Programme Just Special is actually about the knowledge infrastructure. We found that the sector itself needed to develop, disseminate, but also apply and update structured knowledge. This is also necessary in the disability sector, for example, because questions about ageing the client population lead to new studies and new knowledge questions that professionals face and that it is good to spread throughout the sector. It is not just a question of new research, but also of spreading knowledge. ZonMw has now prepared a first draft programme text. This text has been discussed with the various parties at various times. A modified version will be discussed with the disabled sector, the clients and the chairman of the programme committee in the coming week. I expect to be able to get the final proposal from ZonMw the following week. On Monday, June 22, the Kennisplein Handicapped Sector (VGN), MEE, Vilans and ZonMw) organises a symposium for the sector: Focus on knowledge and research. During that symposium I will give the formal kick-off of the program. Of course, I will forward the final programme text and the corresponding documents to the Chamber. Mr Potters asked how participation could be further improved and how the recommendations in the black book would be taken into account. I have just mentioned the agenda 'Good governance in health', in which we, together with the Minister, indicated how we want to improve the legal rules on participation. An amendment to the Customer Participation Act will be proposed, which will take account of the bottlenecks identified in the black book. For example, it is a question of reducing the non-binding nature of advisory rights and introducing the right of assent on important issues. The financial support of client councils will also be improved, making it possible to engage external expertise. The position of client councils and client representative bodies vis-à-vis each other will also be reviewed. I would like to take Mrs Van Toorenburg's question straight away on this point. She asked me to look at other sectors to learn from. Oh, yes, I do. I think it is important to include in the plan of action whether there are experiences in other sectors where the disabled sector can make good use of them. I see that I have skipped a question from Mrs Dijkstra about client choice information. As far as I am concerned, this is a very important part of the plan of action. Transparency of quality is essential in improving quality. She also asked me if I recognise the ageing of caregivers and the fact that the sector sometimes struggles with them. I've been talking to the sector about this. There are two points. The sector says it wants to remain attractive to young people, but has to do with an ageing population. At the same time, we have the policy that goes out too early or continues to work for longer as an important one, including in the disabled sector. The sectoral plans are now in the process of looking at how we can reconcile these two principles. We don't say that people who are a little older but shouldn't work anymore, because with each other we think that longer work is good. At the same time, we must ensure that the disabled sector remains and becomes attractive to young people, as far as this is not yet the case. Moreover, in recent years we have seen a slight increase in employment in the disabled sector, but I very much recognise the signal. I remain prepared to talk to the sector about how we can ensure, for example in training, that the sector remains attractive to young people. We must respond to this new and evolving demand from the disabled sector. I will also discuss what strategic personnel policy should look like for the coming years, taking into account the changes that are going to come towards the sector. I would like to confirm to Mr Potters that I am indeed discussing with the sector the question of how we can further strengthen the position of the client councils, not only in legislation and regulations, but also in the proposals for good governance that I have sent to the Chamber together with the Minister, as well as in the disability care plan. Furthermore, it is about how institutions manage the position of their client councils in practice. I am prepared to check whether there is sufficient awareness of the healthcare hotline in the disabled sector. Moreover, I thought that this was the case, but I am very willing to check whether there is sufficient awareness of this healthcare hotline, so that the disabled sector also uses it to a sufficient extent. I have already answered Mrs Van Toorenburg's question on the experience of the prison system. It is indeed very interesting to see how important the different roles of participation and participation are to put business operations in order. This will also apply in the disabled sector. I'm very willing to look into that. Mrs Van Toorenburg had also asked a question about the IGZ's own research. The practice is not that the IGZ never does research itself. The practice is not that the IGZ always does research itself. In practice, it will always be a consideration. It is very important, especially in health care, that the institution itself learns from it when an incident or calamity occurs, in the vein of: what exactly happened and what have we done wrong? How can we be accountable? How, for example, can we talk about this with family and relatives? The inspection shall require reports from the institution itself. We're judging them. It is often subject to an independent judgement. Sometimes an external is added. If there is death due to coercion, the inspection always investigates itself. If there is reasonable doubt in the family about the question "how did it go and do we really trust this?" I think it is very important that this signal gets through to the inspection. The inspection can then discuss with the family the question: how are we going to investigate this properly? What do we leave to the institution and what should we not leave to the institution? In cases where there is reasonable doubt as to whether the institution has been doing well or has skated, the reason for the inspection will be harder to conduct its own investigation than when the institution's reporting is first awaited. The practice is that the inspection evaluates each time what it can leave to the institution, following it very well. The inspection then makes demands on the investigation and sometimes demands an independent judgement. Sometimes an independent person comes along as well. Sometimes the inspection itself carries out investigations, if there is cause for concern and compulsion. This also happens if there is reasonable doubt as to whether the institution is able to carry out its own research first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u50	It is not for nothing that the prison system has made that choice. If someone dies and there are suspicions that may come into this sector of the parents........................................................................................................................................................................................ It seems as if the Secretary of State wishes to suggest that an institution cannot learn from independent research. I wouldn't want to make that contradiction. If someone dies in a care facility and there is some suspicion, even with the parents, I think it's important that they just look at it independently and that it's taken care of. There's a lot of experience in the prison system. We have built up a legal position, because at some point people who have never been there have seen what it actually means to be in detention. In the prison system a very special course has been made. Then look at that and make sure that an institution can never decide for itself not to submit to an independent investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u51	The incentive is clear, but what is your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u52	I would like the Secretary of State to make a promise that this will actually happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u53	If there is a discussion as to whether things have gone well in the institution, if family doubts about it, then I understand very well that in some cases there is little confidence in a proper investigation by the healthcare provider. What exactly is that gonna do? I think two things are very important. Firstly, I think it is very important that the inspection should contact the family at a very early stage to hear what is going on, to see how it can deal with the investigation. This could lead to the institution first being asked for a report. It may also lead to a failure to wait because one wants to carry out research on one's own behalf. Secondly, I have noticed that this method of inspection, which is the guiding principle, often leads to discussion. I have therefore asked the inspection to make it much clearer when it conducts its own investigation and when it does not consider it necessary. Always consult with the family about that. The IGZ is working on a better version of that guide to make it clear when it can ask the institution to conduct research and then give its own judgment, whether or not it has an independent judgement, and when the inspection itself carries out research, for example, if there is insufficient confidence that the institution's research will produce sufficient confidence-building results. In all cases the family must always be consulted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u54	Mrs Van Toorenburg has a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u55	This hallway has also made the prison system. That unclear intermediate phase doesn't lead to anything. I ask the Secretary of State to simply decide as soon as possible that independent investigations will be carried out, that an independent body will be involved as soon as possible. This "we're gonna talk, one time we will, the other time we won't" will never bring peace.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u56	I agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg. She spoke of a crucial clause: "as soon as there is cause". The discussion is always about when this reason is or is not there. A decision of the inspection must always be taken in consultation with the family. If there's such a thing going on, the inspection will contact the family. On this basis, it is decided whether an investigation can be awaited and subsequently decided whether independent investigations or investigations should be carried out by the inspection itself. That must be clear to the family from the beginning. Well, there's some difference with the prison system. It's not like every death has to lead to investigation. There are, of course, many other kinds of deaths in healthcare. In the prison system, I always think of a calamity, but Mrs Van Toorenburg knows more about it than I do. In health care, you should always investigate what's going on. Again, that consideration must always be made. If there is reason to say that the institution should not carry out its own investigations, then the inspection itself should investigate or have an independent eye attached.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u57	The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u58	I have finished my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u59	I note that there is a need for a second deadline. Speaking time is one minute and there is room for one clarification question, if that is the reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u60	Mr. Chairman. With regard to the independent investigation in the event of a suspicious death or in the absence of a declaration of natural death, I say: was it true that the inspection contacted the family and was it true that that investigation is being conducted on the basis of a good photo of the last 24 hours? It would be a credit to the Secretary of State if he gave more space to the CDA's justified remark and the lengthy discussion in this Chamber about the independent investigation. It's not gonna be done. If a coroner doesn't give a statement of natural death, an institution doesn't even have to report it to the inspection. Or the inspection doesn't even know it's not reported. The Secretary of State has to ask the inspection: there are several cases where the family had to report that there was an unnatural...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u61	The minute speaking time includes the reading of any motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u62	I know, but you know, this is about the deaths of very vulnerable people. And then I'd like to finish my sentence. If it is said here that the next of kin is always contacted, when you know that's not true, then that's emotional. Independent complaint handling? I wish. I feel compelled to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many people are stalled in submitting an individual complaint on the quality of care;]] [[noting that there is no organisation or authority that can support fully independent in these situations and then make a binding ruling;]] [[calls on the Government to set up or extend a body capable of giving binding opinions in its entirety independently,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30597-489]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u63	Mr. Chairman. I'm ahead of my time, and that's why I still have to sort my mind out, but after that I can be very short. The Secretary of State has promised that he will work on a national disability programme and that there will be a separate plan for dealing with the problems of the disabled sector. That is a very good commitment. Furthermore, the Secretary of State has indicated that he will consult with the sector in order to address transparency and information on the quality of housing and its comparison. I would like to hear from him in concrete terms how he intends to shape that. I have suggested that this information, as in the case of care for the elderly, be offered quickly and easily via a website. I'd like to get his reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u64	Mr. Chairman. It's nice to hear the Secretary of State say he'll be involved in other sectors as well. I would ask him to speak in particular to the Council on Criminal and Youth Protection, which can provide a very good overview of the opportunities and threats that lie in the care. I'm actually not satisfied with the Secretary of State's response to our questions about unnatural death. However, I have heard him say that he is going to deal specifically with the inspection in order to look for opportunities for improvement. I ask him to report to the Chamber on this so that we can discuss it. That is why I have not prepared a motion for a resolution. This is precisely where I want to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to do well. But again, we know from parents how much they are concerned about this and that sometimes the Public Prosecutor's Office has had to interfere in this, because in the first instance an independent investigation was not considered necessary at all. That is not possible, and that is why I want a commitment from the Secretary of State on this point. I see him nodding and I hope that this commitment will come about, including the commitment that we will be well informed about this. Because if that proves necessary, we need to be able to talk about this again. So, for now, I'm gonna give the Secretary of State some room to work it out nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u65	Thank you for the contributions. I would like to give the Secretary of State an opportunity to respond to the comments made and the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u66	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the point of inspection and non-natural death. There are two possible situations. If the IGZ finds, on the basis of an emergency report, that there are suspicions of death by guilt, the inspection will always involve the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Public Prosecutor's Office is also called in by the municipal coroner if he has found a non-natural death. The Public Prosecutor's Office is therefore investigating possible criminal offences in both cases. When the prosecution is called in by a municipal coroner after a suspicion of non-natural death, there is a calamity. In such a case, the institution is legally obliged to report it to the IGZ. If that does not happen, then that is a reprehensible fact that is simply eligible for administrative sanctions and sometimes even for a fine. So I do not want to say that it has gone well in all cases. I can very well imagine how bad it must be to have to ask you as a family member whether it has gone well or whether it is being properly investigated. That's an incredible frustration. For this reason, I have indicated that, in my opinion, a decision on the investigation should always be taken in consultation with the family. This should also be the standard method of inspection. If there is reasonable doubt whether the institution can do so at all, there must indeed be independent investigation or investigation by the inspection itself. I would like to say to Mrs Van Toorenburg that I will discuss this with the inspection. We are now also working on an update of the guide. This seems to me to be an excellent opportunity to examine whether this has led to a satisfactory outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u67	Mrs Leijten, all you have left is room for one enlightening question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u68	Mr President, I am simply going to ask the Secretary of State what I am asking. How often is non-natural death given? How often does the D.A. get turned on? Can the Secretary of State send those facts to the Chamber at the same time as the new guidance? Can the Secretary of State indicate in how many cases of unissued natural death the inspection has been notified and investigated and in how many cases it has not conducted an investigation? Can he also indicate how many times in determining a non-natural death, either by a coroner, or by a medical institution other than the institution where someone has lived, or by someone who had the care of those in his hands, has been reported at the inspection? I am very curious about these figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u69	This is a request to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u70	I would like to send the figures available to the Chamber. In the case of a non-natural death, where there are suspicions that something is going on and the prosecution is involved, consultations usually take place between the prosecution and the inspection on who is conducting the investigation and when. This may lead to the prosecution waiting for the investigation to be carried out, often there are criminal aspects to it, but sometimes there are not. I recognize Mrs. Leijten's emotion, because I have that emotion too. That's because there are examples where you can conclude that things did not work out well in the eyes of the family, and sometimes they didn't work out well. These are cases where you can say: had the decision to do your own research or to do independent research but rather taken. So I have that emotion, too. Something like that sometimes leads to a lot of frustration, anger and grief in the families. They have the question: is it being sorted out properly? For this reason, I have said that it should be the standard procedure for the inspection to arrive at an informed opinion on the question: can we wait for a report from the institution, or should we do our own research, or should we set up independent experts? Such a decision must be communicated to the family in the front so that the family can have confidence in the approach to research. We must learn from the things that have not gone well or which are rightly frustrated by family members. This really needs to be arranged in front. If you have reasonable doubts as to whether it all went well, I can imagine that you may not be confident that the institution itself is doing research. If you find insufficient hearing, either at the D.A.'s office or at the inspection, and it doesn't seem to go well there, you lose faith. That is precisely why it should be clarified when it does and when it does not. Moreover, it must always be done in consultation with the family.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u71	May I conclude that if you have the figures, you are prepared to forward them to the Chamber, and on that basis the discussion can be continued?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u72	I had already promised Mrs Van Toorenburg that I would look at the actualisation of the guide after consultation with the inspection. We can then examine whether this is a satisfactory result. As far as figures are available to me, I am very willing to make them available to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u73	Mrs Leijten, I give you an opportunity to make a brief comment, not a third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u74	I'd like to give the Secretary of State the following. He knows very well what cases I am referring to, because we have talked about this before, including in debates on the inspection. I also asked Parliament questions about it. These are politically relevant questions about who is doing research, how the family is involved and whether the research is actually independent. Those parliamentary questions were answered while the investigations ran through the inspection. This concerns four cases from the summer onwards. I am prepared to give the Secretary of State the cases at the end of the debate. I would like to get an update on all four cases. In the end, the answer is every time: the inspection does research and I await it. But if we are still waiting after six months, we are not yet a step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u75	The request is clear. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u76	The state of affairs of the cases can of course always be reported. However, I think it is important to say that when research is carried out, it is not for nothing. This means that we sometimes have to wait for the results of these investigations to draw a conclusion, however frustrating that may be. I can very well imagine that if the family has not already gained a great deal of confidence in the process, because of whatever cause, and if the research takes longer than expected, she wonders if it will be okay. But let us also note with each other that in the cases where research is carried out, we must be able to allow the investigating bodies to do their work so that we can draw good conclusions, which we can learn from and which sometimes also lead to measures towards the responsible institution. In the Leijten motion, in part No. 489, the government is invited to set up or extend a body capable of delivering legally binding opinions. We've already talked about that, I think. I have indicated that we have both a national hotline and the law on quality in diversity of higher education, complaints and disputes care (Wkkgz). This law regulates the settlement of disputes. I prefer to wait and see how it works before we come to change again. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-9.u77	I thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. Thank you all for your input and for your interest, in any way. The vote on the motion tabled is next Tuesday. I shall close the sitting, but not until I have had a happy working evening for all of you.
