ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u1	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the post-AOW-age work bill. Before discussing the substance of the proposal, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Vreeman on his maiden speech. He is not only, with sixteen others, an example of work after the age of AOW, but has also enriched the debate by dividing the AOW group into a number of categories. Since then, I have been worrying about whether these categories do not exist as well below the AOW limit. I can see the "black holes" in my environment, as well as the people who are actually on their way to that big world journey and the ordinary people who struggle a bit in between. But I did like to build up the argument in this way, because we are not all the same and we do not all want the same either. The same applies to those who continue to work after reaching the AOW age. The bill itself has a huge history. It started in 2006 with an opinion from the ESC on facilitating working after the AOW age. Mr Ester recalled on behalf of the Christian Union that it was then expected that a shortage of skilled workers would arise in the foreseeable future because many elderly people would retire. In addition, there was talk at the time of raising the AOW age, but no decisions were taken. A number of Members are right to point out that times have changed. The economic crisis broke out and the labour market has not yet been cut. In the meantime, the AOW-age increase is a fact. Then why this bill? Some of the honourable Members asked me this question. The aim of the proposal is to give people who want to work after reaching the AOW age a better chance of doing so on the basis of a contract of employment. In reply to Mr Ester's question, I say that the legislative proposal is therefore aimed at removing labour law obstacles to working on the basis of such a contract of employment and not at encouraging work after the age of AOW. The proposal is therefore not linked to the economic situation. The intention is to make it easy at all times for people who want to work after the AOW age on the basis of a contract of employment. Mr Kok, on behalf of the PVV, asked about the need for the legislative proposal, as unemployment among older workers, who are not yet entitled to AOW, is high. Here's what I'm gonna say. Combating unemployment is and remains the most important priority at the moment. While we can see that the Dutch economy is recovering, that employment is increasing, that the number of vacancies is rising and that the number of bankruptcies is falling, we can also see that the prospects for the labour market, although they are steadily improving, especially for unemployed older workers, are not yet favourable. I will be discussing some of the specific measures we are taking to support this particular group in finding work. Of course, I will also address the questions that have been asked about displacement, its risk and the way in which we have to deal with it. Questions have been asked about the characteristics of the working AOW'ers. As tempting as it may be to talk only about the categories of Mr Vreeman, I am a little more technical about that question. First of all, it is important to note that those who currently work after the age of AOW, do almost all of this as a zzp (self-employed without staff) or as a temp. There are even temporary employment agencies that specifically target this target group. More than half of the AOW's working, around 57%, are zzp'ers. A large proportion of these self-employed persons are likely to be self-employed before they reach retirement age. In reply to Mr Ester's question, the draft law, according to the Central Planning Bureau, makes regular contracts of employment, both permanent and temporary, more attractive compared to the company. Mr Ester also asked whether AOW'ers themselves strive for work on the basis of a contract of employment. Let me say first of all that working as a temporary worker or self-employed person is obviously no problem if people deliberately choose to do so. It is, however, a problem if they do not have a chance by regulation to work on the basis of a regular contract of employment, if they would prefer to do so and the employer as well. Research has shown that employers do not quickly recruit AOW entitled employees on the basis of such a contract of employment due to labour law thresholds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u2	The Minister rightly says that employers in particular are calling for the removal of barriers, but does this also apply to the workers' side? The Minister mentioned the percentage of 60%, and that is correct, but we do not really know how high the percentage of the group that was previously self-employed feels about it and not at all waiting for a fixed contract. How big is this group? We don't really know. At the same time, does this not mean that the empirical basis under the bill is not too strong?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u3	That's a bit of a chicken egg issue. As a result of the fact that employers do not now offer this possibility, employees often do not at all raise the question of whether they would prefer to work on the basis of a contract of employment for a given time or for a more limited number of hours, or as self-employed or temporary workers. Of course, there are also advantages in working on the basis of a contract of employment. The Central Planning Bureau is indeed expecting more elderly people and more employers who need them. In practice, this also depends on a whole range of other factors; I will argue that further down the road. It's not just this law that makes that happen. This law regulates a number of aspects of contract law so that that threshold has been removed, but it is not the case that after the adoption of this law the Rhine suddenly changes its direction of flow. No, many older people who want to continue working now do so either on the basis of a temporary employment contract or as self-employed workers. It becomes easier, for example, to continue a pleasant employment relationship, if there is one, on the basis of a contract of employment. That's very rare now. I told you, the motives for continuing to work are different. Mr Elzinga rightly drew attention on behalf of the SP to the fact that there are other reasons for continuing to work after the AOW age. You have financial reasons. I'm sure there are. However, around 90% of the AOW-plus employees are active for reasons other than financial. They often continue to work because they like it, for social reasons, to keep seeing colleagues, because it strengthens their sense of self-esteem, to maintain their vitality and to keep their brains fresh. For this group, the financial motive is less important, because one often also has another source of income, such as AOW and/or supplementary pension. Therefore, it is not likely that the work of AOW'ers is a way to cope with loss of purchasing power. Of course, it does occur, but not for the vast majority of the group. It's different with other age groups. It is a very important, if not the most important, reason under the AOW-right age. You can also see this in the fact that AOW beneficiaries often work a limited number of hours per week. Furthermore, as I say in response to Mrs Prast's question of D66, we know that almost three quarters of the AOW workers working through in 2014 were male, while 55% of the normal working population is male. We also know that less than 2% fall within the non-Western migrant group, compared to almost 10% of the total working population. So it's a different kind of cut that chooses it. We do not know to what extent that has to do with these thresholds, but it may well be that, as time passes, more women and non-Western migrants also choose to continue working after the AOW-age. I also belong to some of this Chamber's clear concerns. These concerns are, in fact, all about the risk of displacement, especially of older workers or jobseekers. This is particularly true for 55-plussers who are not yet of the AOW age and may face unfair competition from AOW beneficiaries. In the first place, I understand that concern very well. After all, it makes sense for people to feel the concern of repression at this time. We have already mentioned the high level of unemployment among that group. However, I do not expect any significant displacement. I believe that in this legislative proposal we have struck a good balance between, on the one hand, making working after the AOW age on the basis of a contract of employment and, on the other hand, measures to prevent displacement. I asked the Central Planning Bureau to look into this and to pay explicit attention to the risk of displacement. The CPB says: in the longer term there is no displacement; in the short term it cannot be ruled out. The CPB points to parallels with, for example, the increase in the employment rate of women and older people. Mrs. Prast did the same thing. The sharp increase in female participation in the 1990s went hand in hand with a structural decline in unemployment. Similarly, the increase in the number of older people active in the labour market has not weakened the prospects of young people. That's a good thing. Employment is not just about a fixed number of jobs that are unchangeable. This competition would be inevitable. Fortunately, it works differently, which doesn't mean that you shouldn't be extremely vigilant about displacement due, for example, to cost differences. The complexity of this is that you cannot quantify the expectation of displacement in the short term. I didn't do that, and neither did the Central Planning Office. That is not a question of not wanting, but of not being able. This has to do with the fact that the development of employment among that group, and with it also of displacement, really does not depend solely on this bill. This also depends on demographic developments, on the development of the participation rate among the non-AOW beneficiaries, on the economic situation and on the increase in the AOW age. It is clear that displacement, if it were to occur, would not be possible on a large scale. For this, the group of people working after the AOW-age, i.e. 200,000 people in 2014, is simply far too small compared to the number of workers under the AOW-age age, i.e. over 8.6 million people. That ratio shows that, if it does happen in the short term, it will still be very limited in relation to the larger labour market questions we are dealing with, depending on a multitude of factors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u4	That it is not a very large group in the displacement, we agree on that. But that displacement is likely, also according to the CPB. Isn't a small group serious, too? The Minister has just explained in detail that it is not a financial necessity for the AOW's who are now able to find work, but that it is a financial necessity for a large group of people under that age to find a job. They already have a difficult position on the labour market. Isn't every case of repression a serious case and something we shouldn't want?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u5	I think it's very difficult to point out. Mr Elzinga talks about "any case of displacement." It doesn't work that simple, I'm afraid. As a result of this bill, you will see, for example, but not immediately, in the case of kettlestrokes, that one will work relatively more often with a contract of employment and less often as a self-employed person. This can also have a positive impact on the risk of displacement. Those self-employed may be far lower than those on a contract of employment, especially as there are no financial reasons for continuing to work. After all, we are introducing a minimum wage for this. Let me give you this as a counter-argument. I do not want to say that there is no possibility of any repression in the short term, but to point out that this bill deserves a nuanced assessment in this respect. After all, it does not aim to bring mass AOW-plusers into the labour market as cheaply as possible. No, the elements associated with working through a contract of employment, such as the collective agreement, the minimum wage, a certain level of protection against dismissal and a certain level of payment in case of illness, make sure that, if it is right, you will see more people in a contract of employment and less in thezzp. So that can also prevent displacement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u6	If I remember correctly, the government states in the reply that there is a certain risk of displacement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u7	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u8	The CPB indicates that in the long term it is unlikely that displacement will occur, but it is likely that it will occur in the short term, albeit not on a very large scale. That's what the Minister said. Isn't it therefore all the more important to get that insight quantified? I do not quite understand, although we have asked many questions about this, that there has been no attempt to quantify this, to have the risk exactly in view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u9	I feel that need with Mr Elzinga, because that makes a lot of difference to how you will ultimately judge the effects of the bill. I shall come back to that in a moment, also on the basis of the amendment which looks at the evaluation. That amendment has been tabled for that purpose. I can't do it in advance, I have to confess. I can't do it, and I can't do it at the Central Planning Office. We have really drawn them to the jacket about this: can you not give any indication in quantitative terms? That didn't work. I'll come back to the question of how to keep your finger on the wrist. The SCP report entitled Question for Labour confirms the relatively limited demand for AOW-plussers by employers, as Mr Kok also pointed out. In 2013, half of the employers with older people still felt it was undesirable for older people to continue working after the age of 65, even if we see that percentage decline. Given the concerns about repression, Mr Nagel has asked on behalf of 50PLUS whether I am prepared to postpone the entry into force of this bill. The intended date is 1 January 2016. I have just tried to point out that the link with the economic situation in this case is not there or very limited. I therefore see no reason to propose a different date of entry into the Chamber. As I pointed out, the concerns about displacement are particularly felt in the position of older workers who are not yet entitled to benefit from the AOW. That's a serious problem. Since there have been intrusive questions about this, I would like to use this moment to discuss what we are doing not to abandon that group. After all, if an older person loses his job, there is a good chance that this will take a very long time or that it will not even be possible to find a job at all. That has a huge impact on your income, but it also has a great social impact. It affects your self-esteem and the feeling you get up with in the morning. In this context, it is important to mention some of those specific measures. It has made it financially more attractive for employers to employ older beneficiaries through a premium discount. The no-risk policy reduces the potential risks of illness and incapacity for work for employers if they employ older people. Pilot placement enables employers to create a real picture of potential employees at no cost. In addition, the UWV offers all kinds of additional support to older jobseekers, including through network training and inspiration days, through the Action Plan 50PlusWorks. Training is also used through the provision of training vouchers and placement fees are used to encourage private intermediaries to help unemployed elderly people into work. Mr Kok stated that the UWV no longer provides services to the unemployed and that it has become a bump towards work. I really want to make it clear that this image doesn't correspond to what UWV does, just for this group. That's what's being worked on with heart and soul. By the way, for other groups as well, the whole package of services by UWV is currently being looked at to ensure that more people receive tailor-made services. This can therefore also mean more personal services. Through sector plans and through the bridge-WW we promote the maintenance of skilled workers and are deployed on work-to-work and from unemployment to work. By focusing on retraining, you can prevent unemployment or reduce the period of unemployment. This includes an image that fits in with the sketches of Mr.Vreeman, with more about the emotional and coaching contribution. I have seen in a number of places, for example in construction and metal, that with these sector plans older workers, who might otherwise go out, could remain employed and young people entered a learning job. You'll see something wonderful happen. The experience of the older worker is used to teach young people the craftsmanship. On the other hand, you can see that the young people who invade with their ten thousand hours of gaming experience very easily take the older worker by hand when operating the machines, because nowadays almost all of this goes through a screen rather than through heavy work. Because of this phenomenon and because of such measures, we are able to keep older workers in a company and environment, and to make them useful on the younger influx. That's one of the wonderful things that you're seeing happening right now. In the coming period, I will come to the Chamber with proposals to make these premiums more easily available, including for smaller companies. You can see that because of a lack of cash portability, especially SMEs, it is not really very helpful. This is a huge opportunity to encourage SMEs to employ older people. That discount is very relevant to such a company. Now they won't be eligible, soon if it's okay. This was a short anthology, but it seemed good to consider what we are doing for that group because of the concerns that rightly live in the Chamber. In the legislative proposal itself, a number of more specific measures have been taken to combat displacement. Firstly, declaring the minimum wage applicable to AOW-plussers. Working AOWs must of course not be paid below the statutory minimum wage. We can do that now because it doesn't apply to them yet. In 2012, 16,000 jobs were filled by AOWs at a maximum of the statutory minimum wage or lower. Let me be clear: if there is a collective agreement, the AOW must of course be paid according to that collective agreement. That, too, is a reason to say that it would be good if both parties wanted to work under a contract of employment, because then you certainly do not have that unfair competition on pay. We also amended the Dismissal Decision as of April 2014. As a result, the AOW owner must be the first to be dismissed in the event of economic dismissal in exchangeable jobs. This has now been included in the Dismissal Order, which has been replaced by the Dismissal Order. This prevents an AOW entitled employee from remaining at the expense of an employee who is still dependent on income from work. In addition, the bill offers opportunities for older workers who are not yet entitled to AOW. It is becoming more attractive to employ someone if he knows that he can have them working on a lighter labour law regime after the age of AOW. The Work and Security Act also contributes to this, which provides that an employer may terminate the employment contract of the pensionable worker without a preventive test and that no transition fee is payable in the event of dismissal from or after the retirement age. This, too, makes it more attractive to employ an older, even non-retirement, employee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u10	It might make it more attractive to hire someone right in front of the AOW. It makes an employee who isn't so close to firing a lot more expensive and difficult than someone who is standing near his AOW or already has his AOW. I don't know how this displacement works. I think that is precisely what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u11	That is what we differ on. The fact that many employers are now deterred from doing so has to do with the fact that it is for a very short time or that you have to work in a very different way afterwards, and that it can be attractive to give people another chance. If that means a 60-year-old person getting the job instead of a 50-year-old person, then the 60-year-old person is pushing the 50-year-old. However, I have tried to argue for a reason that it does not work that way. This measure is against displacement. However, this does not guarantee that there can never be displacement. However, it is not one and the same job that we have to divide up all the time. That would be too gloomy a perspective. Mr Elzinga and Mr Lintmeijer asked for the justification of the age difference in the legislative proposal. Are the measures appropriate and necessary? The lighter labour law regime does indeed distinguish on the basis of age. The Equal Treatment Act allows this only if there is an objective justification for that distinction. This means that there must be a legitimate objective and appropriate and necessary means of achieving that objective. Under the European directive establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation, which is the basis of our Equal Treatment Act based on age in employment, this may include, inter alia, the creation of special conditions for access to employment or special working conditions for older workers. The purpose, to facilitate working after the AOW age on the basis of an employment contract, I consider legitimate. The measures create a lighter labour law regime, which I consider to be an appropriate means because, after all, AOW beneficiaries can claim the AOW as a basic income. The discussion about basic income is back on track. The members may have seen the episode of De Speld in which there is talk of shame about that huge group of Dutch people already receiving a basic income. This refers to the AOW's. It is, of course, a great achievement that we have in the Netherlands, but it does justify a distinction with those workers who do not have that provision. I also think it is necessary, because only a lighter labour law regime can make it more attractive for people to return to work in a contract of employment, given the obstacles that exist today. Mrs Prast asked about the differences in labour costs. These differences are indeed due to the fact that employers do not have to pay WIA, WAO, waiting money and WW contributions to the AOW's. In many cases there is no need to pay pension contributions either. These are not new differences, by the way. They also exist in the current situation. This bill doesn't change that. In the case of a modal income, it is a fairly substantial difference per year, but it should be noted that AOW'ers no longer build up rights for the WW and that the cost of pay-as-you-go payments in the event of illness is directly recovered from the employer. That's hard to include in those calculations. In addition, older beneficiaries can claim a mobility bonus of €7,000 over a three-year period. I was just referring to that. I would like to say two things about Mrs Prast's question about what we sometimes call disrespect the 'court grant'. Firstly, the transferability of the general tax rebate is already phased out. However, this does not apply to people born before 1963. Secondly, once these people have reached the age of AOW, the AOW itself ensures that almost everyone has sufficient income to fully redeem the discount. There is therefore only a very limited transfer after the AOW age, so there is no difference with people just below the AOW age. In reply to questions from Mr Elzinga, Mr Lintmeijer and Mrs Prast, I would like to point out that when this bill was drawn up, it was considered and discussed in order to further align wage costs. In the end, this was not chosen for the main reason that this would stand in the way of the purpose of the bill itself. The expectation is that it will not be attractive to allow AOW workers to work on the basis of a contract of employment, but that there would be an incentive for them to work as self-employed. Mr Lintmeijer and Mr Ester asked me whether and how I will monitor and evaluate the drafting of the bill. Amendment introduces an article which provides that the functioning of the law for the first two years after its entry into force must be evaluated. An important point of attention in this evaluation is, of course, the question of displacement. I just said that to Mr Elzinga. The regular figures of the CBS can provide insight into the development of the employment rate of employees in different categories of age and in different contractual forms of AOW employees. If necessary, the CBS can provide customization, allowing us to collect data at a lower aggregation level. In-depth research among employers and employees will also have to identify the concrete effects of the measures in this legislative proposal on whether or not the AOW-plussers are working. I'll summarize it very briefly. The evaluation is an important tool for me to make the quantitative assessment, which you will not get in advance, and to be able to test it against what will happen in reality. I will, of course, share the results of that evaluation with both Chambers. Some groups have asked questions about a little bit further, such as refugees, flexible AOW, minimum youth pay, work and care and labour market discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u12	I'll come back to the evaluation. It is always very pleasant if you can connect an evaluation with a number of objectives. What results of the evaluation is the Minister satisfied with? In other words, what objectives would the Minister give in advance to this evaluation, so that we have some sort of handle to see if it works out as we would have liked it to?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u13	That question is, of course, entirely justified. The aim of the law is to make it more attractive for people who want to work through to do so within a contract of employment. That's what you need to see in the evaluation. The concern of several speakers in the Chamber and mine is aimed at the possibility of displacement. You want to be able to rule out displacement. So you want to be able to determine whether it has taken place and, if so, to what extent and whether the objectives of the legislative proposal have actually been achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u14	I understand that, but is the Minister also prepared to link some quantitative targets to that in advance? Is he satisfied with 5% more people going to work with a contract of employment or 10%? Does he think it is acceptable that 10% of people under 65 years of age could be more difficult to get a job? Can he make a little sense of the proportions he's thinking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u15	I would very much like to, but we have some modesty in it. The Central Planning Bureau grants a structural effect on employment, but by 2040. The chance that you can see that quantitatively in an evaluation after two years, I consider limited. So that would not be real. We can set ourselves the target of 5%, 6% or 3%, but this will have to be done over the years, in which these other factors also play a role. I'd like to try to get the quantitative data up. I will explicitly ask the CBS what kind of changes there are and what kind of overflow there is. I will also ask the CBS if, as a result of this law, it may see a causal link in this matter. In addition, I will in particular ask whether there are any effects of displacement on the group of more vulnerable jobseekers just below that. Mr Nagel asked a number of questions on behalf of 50PLUS about the influx of refugees from Syria in relation to this bill. We see that the group of Syrians fleeing that horrible war zone is very diverse. The group which will soon be entitled to a status and to care is partly made up of lower-educated people, some of them secondary-educated and some of them higher-educated. The short-term impact of this inflow on the labour market is difficult to quantify. Let me just say this. I believe that people who have the right to remain here must integrate quickly. They need to learn the language, get to work, and the kids need to go to school. In this way they can become part of society. They must be able to regain their lives after the undoubtedly dramatic events in the country of origin. I do not think it is right for us to give priority to groups of people in our labour market. If that is what the question was about, and if it provoked me to respond to it, I agree with Mr Nagel. Yes, our country has a duty to receive people properly. We are doing this in an admirable way. I've seen today with what incredible commitment volunteers and professionals are organizing that now. People who are allowed to stay here must be properly integrated into society, for themselves, but also for society as a whole. There are concerns about this large group, but it is not appropriate to distinguish between who is eligible for a particular job or not. They should be able to obtain such a job on their own merits, diplomas, training, commitment, drive and entrepreneurship. A question has also been asked about the flexible AOW. Mr Ester asked for interfaces between the debate on the flexibilisation of the border. Mr President, I note that I am still looking a little towards the old division of seats of the First Chamber. I apologize to the Members of Parliament, because I keep looking at the wrong speaker. Mr. Ester is in a different place now than he used to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u16	This is left now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u17	Yes, I know, Mr. Lintmeijer, but you used to sit there, at least your club.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u18	We have now had elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u19	I've heard something about that, but I haven't followed it that way. I'm glad the chairman's still here. I will address her. As is clear from the letter sent to the Chamber by the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment at the beginning of this year, we are not in favour of a flexible AOW record. The possibility to allow the AOW to enter later does not offer any substantial additional freedom of choice. Allowing it to start earlier leads to high costs. In addition, a flexible AOW is available only for people who have sufficient money, i.e. sufficient income or wealth, to afford it. Moreover, the flexibilisation makes the execution extremely expensive and complex. I can't stop looking to the left, but I really need to look to the left outside for Mr. Ester. We know how important it is to count to ten in this type of implementation before we give an in-house thought as a mission to our implementing bodies. Working after the AOW age is already attractive, because employees who have reached the AOW age are subject to a lower tax or premium rate. Employers also benefit from that moment. On the contrary, the current legislative proposal removes the obstacles to employment law as much as possible. In other words, this bill makes it easier for those who would like to work longer. If people want to work shorter, we see a risk, both in inequality between people who can and cannot afford it, and in the implementation of the system and the costs. I have heard Mr Vreeman's plea about the minimum wage for young people and I very much agree with his principles. This feeling also lives wider in society, especially in the younger parts of society. Of course, I have also seen how Young & United takes action to get that on the agenda. They do that in a handsome way. In the meantime, a motion has also been adopted in the House of Representatives to encourage me to come forward quickly with measures. However, it is not a very simple issue, because you also have to look at the other side of the story, i.e. the potential disadvantages, such as consequences for young people's possible decisions to learn or not to learn and, perhaps even more importantly, for the employment of young people. I would like to take these arguments seriously before I make a proposal to increase the minimum wage for young people. I am currently studying this review and, of course, this is one of the main points in the revision of the WML. I will write a letter to the House of Representatives for the budget debate. My budget is usually dealt with around sinterklaas. Mr Vreeman has rightly also mentioned the issue of working and caring through life. The description he gave of rush hour was very familiar to me. But I also recognize the different stages that we all experience in working and caring, where you never want to let it go at all at the expense of the other. I'm organizing a summit in early 2016...or actually a meeting... that always sounds a little more modest in the context of labor and care. I asked the ESC to give advice on working, modern life in the future and its combination. How do you shape that? Just as Mr Vreeman says, collective arrangements are needed to give people the space to make their own choices. I am very curious to see what new ideas the ESC will come up with. We have been able to take a number of steps in recent years, despite the fact that it was economically difficult. I am very proud of that, because I think it is really necessary that people, for example, have the opportunity to take care of a sick neighbor. We also had a nice debate about this in this Chamber or to get leave if their partner likes it. But those are steps; as far as I'm concerned, it's not the end point where you should be. In the cabinet response to the ESC opinion, we will also discuss opportunities to share, save and ensure leave, such as those in Sweden. In addition, I will ask the ESC to pay attention to the German model that Mr Vreeman cited. Mr Vreeman has asked a question about labour discrimination on the basis of origin. He wondered whether the solution should not be sought in a cultural and mentality change among the decision-makers on personnel policy, the HR managers. Shouldn't we be focusing on staff heads, for example in SMEs? As Mr Vreeman rightly pointed out, the fight against and prevention of discrimination requires not only continuous attention and a common approach, but also time and a change in thinking. In its opinion of last year, the ESC indicated that prejudice plays a major role in the exclusion of groups from the labour market. Prejudice doesn't change by law or by force. Culture and mentality change must come from within. It must be created by meeting, by moving into another person and by getting to know each other. Organisations must also deal with this challenge. On 2 July last, I presented a diversity charter, where organisations can get support, exchange knowledge and challenge them to formulate ambitions and make them public. How will they promote diversity in their organisation? We're doing two things here. There will be more attention and it will lead to more places in those kinds of companies, but we will also put the positive forces in the sunlight. After all, many companies are well aware that the labour market is changing, that there is talent that you should not let go and that it is worth bringing people into the home, getting to know them and overcoming your prejudices. In the meantime, 22 organisations, both private and public, have signed and formulated their ambition in the context of the diversity charter, including, of course, the Ministry of Social Affairs but also the four major cities and the police. The other departments have also expressed their commitment. Together, these organisations already cover 200,000 employees. In November, I will organise a second drawing session to ensure that the number of organisations increases rapidly. With this annex I want to end my first term. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u20	We have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u21	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister and his officials for answering our questions. I indicated in the first term that the Christian Union Group is not getting hot or cold from this bill. However, if AOWs want to carry out paid work, they must be able and should be able to remove obstacles, even if they are still a small group. Our priority, as has been said, is to reduce the high level of unemployment among older jobseekers who are not yet entitled to an AOW pension. In our view, this is the major challenge facing the Dutch labour market. Their chances of finding paid labour are downright bad. It was good to note that the Minister has this clearly on his retina, given the insight he gave in the policy he has set out for this vulnerable group. For my group, it remains a little unclear what kind of problem this legislative proposal offers a solution to. This has to do with the lack of empirical evidence and the basis of the bill. At the moment, 60% of AOW's work as a zzp'er. We don't know how high that percentage is before they get their AOW. Let's say this percentage is pretty much comparable. Then it is completely unclear what added value this legislative proposal offers them. Why, then, should they be waiting for an employment with their employer at all? That question stays above the table anyway. In view of the numbers involved, we are well aware that the CPB cannot properly quantify this, but it should be discussed in depth in the evaluation, because it remains an unanswered question. My group does not, in itself, object in principle to the proposed lighter labour law regime for AOWs who wish to carry out paid work. However, with many other colleagues, we have expressed our concerns about displacement effects; not so much for younger workers, women or such categories, we know that they are not on the agenda, but because we know much less about whether this displacement might take place between AOW workers working and the cohort of older jobseekers just before them. The evaluation must, as we understand it, provide an insight into this. That's what we're looking forward to. We do not regard this proposal as a substantial contribution to the labour market. The Minister has explained quite extensively that this is not the intention either. That would not in itself be a reason for my group to vote against the proposal. However, we continue to challenge the cabinet and the minister responsible to give the highest priority to reducing long-term unemployment among older jobseekers. That's the biggest labour market angel.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u22	Mr. Chairman. As I understand it, this bill has no macro-labour market objective. However, the aim is to give a group of people, AOW'ers who want to work, a little support on the labour market by making them significantly cheaper, both to take on and to give back. It has not become clear to me whether that is an objectivable goal on the basis of which a distinction can be made according to age. A lighter labour law regime would be an appropriate means, according to the Minister. It would be necessary because employers would only be willing to hire AOW workers if their work were to be carried out much cheaper and easier. This has always been euphemistically referred to as a lighter labour law regime, but that is what we are talking about. On the basis of people who are now happily working with decent employment protection, I do not believe that this measure is really necessary. For many of the new extremely flexible disposable workers with a basic income, the financial necessity of the work is generally fortunately limited. But for the older workers who do not have an AOW right yet, who are already hard to get to work, who are suddenly considerably more expensive and who have less left than their slightly older counterparts, I fear finding work becomes considerably more difficult. In addition to all the reasons for wanting to participate, this large group usually also has a financial need for work. That is precisely why it is very disappointing that there is no clarity about the extent of this displacement as a result of the legislative proposal. It is good that the Minister is keen to monitor this, but the risk that the problem is larger, perhaps considerably greater, than the government would have hoped, is far too great for the SP Group. We cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u23	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his detailed reply, as he always does. As pointed out this morning, in our humble opinion, this legislative proposal should be seen in a broad overall context and also be framed with a look at the future. Unfortunately, I missed that last one. In any case, it is clear that the labour market position of older people is problematic. I don't have to add much to that. There is a structural, rather than cyclical, rise in unemployment. There is no prospect of improvement. In the first instance, the policy should focus on this. The unfocused distribution of 5 billion to the workers is less appropriate in our view. The focus in the bill on the AOW'ers is fine in itself, but especially given the future situation in which pension and AOW will be significantly lower. The urgency will only increase in this respect. I haven't actually heard the Minister about that. For the moment, however, the timing is not appropriate. There is no urgency, even if we believe otherwise. And given the labour market, there is now little to gain for the AOW'ers. There is hardly any work and the hand-out is lean and misconstrues the fundamental problem. In addition, displacement with AOW-minners and, derived from this, also with young people is a problem in itself, which, although not quantified, we hope to get the results. Besides, the AOWs are already a lot cheaper. That's what I've heard the Minister about. A clear policy choice, to the extent to which it is recognised, does not seem to be a real one, just as it is a clear priority which, as has already been said, should lie with the 50-plussed group, whose employment is problematic and whose urgency is high. The PVV is critical of this bill. The impression is that the removal of labour law obstacles is primarily for the benefit of employers. It is also striking that the VVD is not even present here to admit this. This bill serves less the interests of the AOW's, who in any case can get to work in our eyes. In addition, there is a lighter regime. In itself, therefore, the urgency there seems to be a little less. All in all, the conclusion is that there is a solution here to a problem which is currently limited, perhaps absent, while the risks are relatively greater and have not yet been shown indicatively. Moreover, the reality shows that work is not to a greater extent available, despite all the technical changes in labour law which the Minister has just given an exposé. Despite all sympathy, the PVV Group is not yet convinced of the urgency, usefulness and necessity of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u24	Mr. Chairman. We also thank the Minister for his clear and detailed reply. I would like to make a very brief comment on the curious speech made by D66 in my view. It painted a caricature of some elderly people. I give just two examples of which I do not know whether it is intentional malice or ignorance. The discount was mentioned by the Dutch Railways, 50%, in reality that is 40%. What has not been said is that it does not apply on certain peak days and at certain peak hours, but that it is precisely to clear places in peak hours and to promote travel in the valley hours by people who can do so. Furthermore, the strange example of Nieuwspoort, where Poorters who no longer work, over 65 years old, pay half. Yeah, those people don't have to go there anymore and pay for an expensive membership, so in order to maintain that band, they can continue for half of it. That's a business measure. For example, there was a caricature of the elderly who are so favored and who have it so well. The Minister was urged to take account of the fact that there are currently 600,000 unemployed and that the unemployment rate among the elderly is relatively high at the age of 55-plus, 60-plus. We have pointed out that the accelerated increase in the age of AOW will keep working places longer in use, which means that there is no possibility of flowing in or flowing through. We have also mentioned the issue of refugees, who will certainly also claim jobs. And now, at the moment, introducing this law with what the trade union movement thinks is unfair competition only adds to the problems. It would certainly have been reasonable to postpone this. I enjoyed Mr Vreeman's maiden speech and his trade union history, but I really do not understand why he did not mention the fact that both CNV and FNV, the association he belonged to, strongly advised against accepting this. This trade union movement is apparently no longer present in the field of view of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u25	Of course I am very well formed in the trade union movement and I am proud of it, but I am not saying that the trade union movement has the most progressive views on all points. On this subject, I would say in my speech that we should also have a bit of an open attitude towards the way people develop in their lives and that we should not have a static view of a labour market and put everything into displacement. I just don't agree with that. If the trade union movement wants to discuss this with me, then I am happy to do so with my old colleagues. Then you will see that there are more people among them who put the modern life cycle at the centre and that there will be people who say that we must try to stop the displacement. In the history of the trade union movement, on the arrival of women's work, exactly the same discussion was going on. In the trade union movement, too, many trade unions opposed the participation of women in the labour market from the perspective of displacement. They got really wrong later. I also think that the trade union movement is wrong on this point that certain people want to continue as employees because they like the work or because they have a chance to help their colleagues. Surely that's more the perspective than saying in advance that you're forced to quit at 65, even though you still like working as an employee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u26	I note only that Mr Vreeman's party, in this case but also in many other cases, has lost contact and understanding with the trade union movement. This is also reflected in opinion polls. I regret that, because the Labour Party was rightly always a factor of great importance. I've just finished with the reason I find certain things. If, therefore, the Minister is not prepared to take over the urgent appeal from the trade union movement, but also from a number of parties here in the Senate, and postpone the law, we will unfortunately be forced to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u27	Mr. Chairman. For my part, too, I would like to thank the Minister for his detailed and substantive reply. As far as we are concerned, we had two problems and issues surrounding this bill. Firstly, in the short term, the problem of displacement. We agree with the Minister that this problem will not occur in the longer term. In the short term, however, it is still a significant factor. I am glad to see that the Minister gives an account of what is happening to prevent or tackle the unemployment of over 50 people. At the same time, you must note that for the moment this law is going to be counterproductive in this respect. That's too bad. More fundamentally, we believe that we are making work especially easier and cheaper for people over the age of AOW on the employer's side. You could almost say "easy in, but also easy out." This leads to an inequality of legal status and a gap between people in similar circumstances which we still find undesirable and which we have not had the impression from the Minister's answer that this problem is being solved in this legislation. As far as we are concerned, the urgency of the law, hardly supported by quantitative data and without any targets for evaluating the law, is lagging behind what you would like. We are taking the answer back to the group, but at the moment I believe that my group will not support the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u28	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers to the questions asked, including mine. I asked the Minister whether he was prepared to examine the possibility of putting an end to the tax preference based solely on age and using the money saved by the government to facilitate the life of those who really need it, AOW'er or not. The Minister did not answer yes or no. That offers hope. I invite the Minister to look into that in the future. I asked the Minister to calculate for me, if that was possible quickly, what is the difference between two persons with a modal income and then the income gross to net, AOW'er or not. I am referring to the new category of AOW who can work more easily in employment compared to a younger colleague with the same modal income. In his reply, the Minister mentioned the term 'wage costs', but I think he came up with that term because he has heard the word 'displacement' so many times, but labour costs are costs incurred by the employer. It was precisely that young IT guy, who, together with his older colleague, an AOW'er, is doing a great job in the company. They earn grossly the same, but the young ICT guy, who might have to keep a lot more balls in the air at home, is much less left. The Minister has quite rightly said that this difference in tax treatment is now also present. That's right, but there's also a difference. Soon more people will be facilitated who have reached the AOW age to work in employment. In any case, I expect more cases from colleagues, from one AOWer, from the other, who deserve the same, while the non-AOWer has much less left. This is not an additional question for the Minister, but I would like to say that this is new. The Minister does not consider this to be contrary to the Equal Treatment Act, because it is a legitimate objective. So this is covered by the third bullet in the exceptions, a point well tasks. I would like to make a comment to Mr Nagel. I think we should debate here on the basis of content. I've outlined a number of facts. All right, it was maybe 40% and not 50% of the population may have been reduced, but I'm not interested in creating a particular image of an AOWer. I have just indicated that I see AOW'ers as full-fledged people who can do much more than before, with the question of whether the current arrangements are now and tomorrow. I will advise my group to support this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u29	Then the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment has the floor, because he has the opportunity to reply immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u30	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. My reaction may be very limited, but I would like to respond. There have been reasonable arguments from various quarters as to why the group will be given positive advice or not. I can feel very well and understand why you come to another consideration. In the direction of Mr Esser, I say that this does not solve a huge problem, but you also improve the labour market by filing some things a little bit better. We remove some obstacles and that leads to an improvement, but it is not a swing of the tanker. I hope that he will be able to come up with a positive opinion on the basis of his speech. That's what it sounded like. I also understand that the SP is not sufficiently convinced, but I am grateful that Mr Elzinga has responded to my speech in a nuanced manner. The concern of the SP when it comes to the limited displacement is now too great to allow the benefits that its group also sees, for example, the work within a contract of employment to be decisive. He is also very curious about what this evaluation will look like in a few years' time. He may then say on behalf of the SP that the bill was sensible and that the disadvantage has not manifested itself. I appreciate that, without expecting the SP to vote in favour now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u31	Indeed, I am still not convinced, but if that evaluation shows that the displacement effect is greater than the government hopes, will the issue be reversed again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u32	Labour law is never finished. The developments in society will also have to lead to adjustments for me or my successors. What we want is for people who want to continue to work to be able to do so, as far as I am concerned, within the collective agreement, on the basis of a contract of employment. That is what this proposal is for. If we see things that we all do not want, the law must be changed. I don't think that's such a complicated issue. I also understand that the PVV is against, but I almost heard the need to be able to vote in favour of the bill. If the bill had been placed in a broader context and perhaps had been tabled at another time, the judgment might have been different, but we do not have that luxury. This is the moment and this is the framework. So I did not hear a statement of support, but a hint of the suggestion of a statement of support. That's how I'd like to take this. The same applies to Mr Nagel. After all, he said that if I did not postpone the legislative proposal, his group would not be able to vote for it. That sounds like the following: if the bill were to come later, Mr Nagel would vote in favour. That may not be possible now, but I understood that there is still a chance. The same applies to GroenLinks. I don't count on money there, either. Dan D66. Indeed, I may have reacted too short to the questions. I may have wanted to be a little too tactical in it. The thought path that Mrs. Prast outlined is very interesting. Could you not organize a little more redistribution by reducing the standard tax preference for groups and letting the money land with people who need it the most? That was the thrust of her speech. Recent IMF and OECD studies also say that if you redistribute too much, it can be harmful. If you do it too little, however, you miss economic growth. The rich countries have actually already arrived at that point. In that sense, I think it is a very progressive argument made by Mrs Prast. However, some restraint is appropriate in the context of this legislative proposal. I have already recognised, in the direction of Mr Ester, that this bill does not change the direction of the Rhine. However, we must continue to think about how we organise redistribution in a modern way in this modern age. I agree with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u33	I hear a difference between the Minister and D66. I'd like to confirm that. D66 spoke specifically, exclusively and only about elderly people with benefits. The Minister spoke about groups that have been favoured by tax. A redistribution should be possible in favour of groups that have less. That applies in general. It's not based on age, it's based on income or wealth, or one of those two, or both. That's a different approach than fixing purely and exclusively on older people. I listened to that very carefully in the Minister's office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u34	Sure. Mr Nagel and Mrs Prast should perhaps debate more often. I am not sure whether they were right to each other's views, but I have understood the argument as a purely progressive argument as to whether there are possibilities for more redistribution in society. It is seen that people are having a hard time, while there are also benefits for people who may not always need it. This does not seem to me at all at odds with Mr Nagel's contribution to his current party or to one of his previous parties. Finally, I would like to thank the Chamber for the pleasant debate and look forward to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-10.u35	I propose that we vote on this bill next Tuesday.
