ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u1	I would like to welcome the Members and Ministers of Health, Welfare and Sport and of Security and Justice. Members shall have a maximum of four minutes' speaking time. I propose two interruptions with a follow-up question if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u2	Mr. Chairman. Eye for the suffering of fellow human beings; that is the daily work of a general practitioner. Today the question arises as to whether there has been sufficient attention to the suffering of the general practitioner himself. In August 2013, a dying patient with esophageal cancer received medication from his GP after which he died. Due to the amount of medication and the behaviour of the general practitioner, it came to a criminal investigation by the Public Prosecutor's Office and an investigation into patient safety by the Health Inspectorate. The case shocked society when the GP committed suicide. The Ministers of Security and Justice and of VWS decided to set up an evaluation committee and presented their report on 31 March 2015. How do the ministers feel that the report from the evaluation committee has been received, for example by general practitioners and medical practitioners themselves? They cut off the evaluation committee and certainly also the action of the AMC, the inspection and the prosecution, which is considered correct. How can these assessments be so far apart? What do the ministers have to say about this? Could this be because the important question whether the conduct of the inspection and the Public Prosecutor's Office has contributed to the suicide of the general practitioner remains unanswered? The administration of the medication by the general practitioner was investigated. The SP understands that, but has there been enough room for the human aspect during the research? Is it true that the inspection started from the very beginning, from the moment this matter came to her attention, that it was a murder? Haven't there been several times when she could have come back to the verdict that there was murder or a life crime? How often has the case of a different point of view been highlighted before it was continued on the assumption that it was murder? How this case would have ended, no one knows, but acquittal is one of the options. However, in a letter to the Chamber, the ministers do speak of a life crime. How can the Ministers support the evaluation committee in this way, say that the authorities have acted correctly and speak of a life crime, when the general practitioner can never defend himself again? At the end of September 2013, the inspection ruled that the GP should be inactive and immediately. Why was there no one at the inspection who had the overall overview and said: the chance of repetition is currently absent, because the doctor is seriously ill? The issuing of the order went extremely sloppy. Is my assessment that the image of the inspection went before care here? How often has there been talk within the inspection about a personal conversation with the general practitioner, from person to person? Is it possible that the inspection feels co-responsible for the tragedy that took place in Tuitjenhorn on 8 October 2013? Is she capable of reflection? My question is actually broader. Are the ministers capable of reflection? Do the Ministers recognise that there is a gap in the examination of the evaluation committee, mainly the question of how the suicide of general practitioner Tromp came about? Are they prepared to have a more detailed examination of how this happened, on the one hand, for the satisfaction of the relatives and, on the other hand, to serve self-reflection? As I started, the eye for the suffering of the fellow man is the daily work of the general practitioner. It is sad to see that the attention to the suffering of the general practitioner has been absent. Let us come to the conclusion today that this must not happen again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u3	Mr. Chairman. The Tuitjenhorn case shows how sensitive and complex issues still lie around the end of life of terminal patients. The death of the general practitioner is tragic and has caused great social unrest, including within the profession. On behalf of the PvdA, I would like to express my condolences to the widow of the general practitioner and the other relatives. As far as we're concerned, the case knows nothing but losers. It is good that there has been an independent investigation into the conduct of the AMC, the Health Inspectorate and the Public Prosecutor's Office. It is also a good thing that the cabinet adopts all recommendations. However, I find it very regrettable that the results of the report did not fully contribute to the processing of the events of the people directly involved in the general practitioner. Mistakes have also been made in the actions of the Public Prosecutor and the IGZ. The D.A. has subsequently reviewed the request for provisional detention. After all, the IGZ had already ordered the GP to temporarily discontinue his practice. Furthermore, the IGZ did not give sufficient reasons for its decision to make the order public. For both the Public Prosecutor and the IGZ there are lessons to be learned for the future, including as regards their mutual cooperation. The village of Tuitjenhorn is indignant about the coldness of the report and wants to restore honour for his GP. The administration of a high dose of morphine and sedatives is culpable and the course of events is contrary to the law, according to the report, but the social unrest and the emotions associated with it are mainly due to public suspicion of murder. That suspicion may have been disproportionate and may have had a disproportionate emotional impact on the general practitioner. I note that, in any case, a doctor is vulnerable in his actions on the border of life and death; we cannot ignore that. For doctors, acting around the end of life feels like their medical duty. Of course, they have a genuine intention of serving the interests of their patients, but it is important that they be subject to scrutiny. The legal qualification of "murder" in the event of medical treatment at the end of life appears to be extremely unsatisfactory not only for a doctor concerned, but also for judges. This qualification does not do justice to the feeling of society about medical treatment and about the end of life. It's a legal-technical term. In the past, proposals have been made to include a separate provision in the Code of Criminal Law on life-ending behaviour by doctors. This would not change the criminality, but it would change the sense of society. I would like to receive a response from the Minister for Security and Justice on this point. There is still a huge gap between the harsh judgment in the report and the feelings of the people. How do we handle this? What lessons can we draw to prevent such a tragedy in the future? What are the organisations involved going to do? Even now, there appears to be great unrest among doctors about the execution of palliative care and euthanasia. One of the conclusions in the report is that the Health Inspectorate must invest thoroughly in the relationship with the target group of general practitioners, thus creating a basis of trust and accepting the authority of the Inspectorate. How will the Minister contribute to this? General practitioners continue to stress that they want to be supported and heard in this kind of complex situation. Finally. In the public debate, the resident and the training institute are accused of not having consulted the general practitioner. The report points out that the collective consultation on medical practice must be huge, but that there may be a derogation from this if there is a suspicion of a life crime. I can imagine that this is also very intense for such an intern. I would like to hear from the Minister whether she is prepared to ensure that the training of general practitioners is given more emphasis on the way in which complex issues need to be dealt with around the end of life, so that residents are also equipped to be able to respond to these dilemmas in the near future, but also to act properly in the collective consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u4	I can broadly agree with Mrs Arib's speech in that there is still a call for the restoration of honour in the community where the general practitioner comes from, and that there is a very emotional feeling there. One of the things we note is that there is a gap in the evaluation committee. That is why I have made a request to that effect. It is therefore questionable whether the conduct of the inspection and the Public Prosecutor's Office could have contributed to the suicide. Wouldn't it be a good thing if that question were to be examined independently and decided upon?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u5	I find the report as it has been drawn up very accessible and very factual. I'm assuming that everything has been investigated, because there are things in there that are vulnerable, and that's how it's supposed to be. There is indeed a discrepancy between what is written in the report and what I have just said about the human side, the emotions that the whole thing has brought with it. I find that difficult to assess at the moment, because I know that the next of kin have started a lawsuit on the conduct of the inspection. So I find it difficult to draw the conclusion here in the Chamber now that there is another investigation to be carried out. I wouldn't know what else would come up other than what this report is putting forward. But I don't want to rule on a case that's still under trial. It's common around here. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u6	I understand the latter, and yet we have this debate today. The ruling in which the widow challenges the inspection for how she has acted will have taken place, but this is what is at stake, and that is why, in the opinion of the SP Group, there is a great deal of dissatisfaction about the evaluation committee. It says: the authorities have done the right thing, although some mistakes have been made; but in the end they have had to deal with an addition. The question whether that sum has contributed to the suicide is not answered. Would it not be good to put an end to this sad situation if that question is answered independently, so that we can continue and say: there has been self-reflection; this is not going to happen again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u7	I do not doubt the independence of the report we are discussing tonight. I find it very difficult to re-analyse the functioning of different bodies on the basis of a tragic event. An important person who also has a role in this cannot defend himself here. That's the GP himself. It also has an emotional charge. I really don't want to anticipate anything right now. I'd like to wait and see what the judge says in that case. If that is sufficient, the Chamber, which is independent in it, can still examine the role of the inspection or have an independent investigation carried out again. We can still do that, but at the moment I do not feel that much about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u8	Mr. Chairman. The dramatic events surrounding Tuitjenhorn are and remain tragic. Even with this report, the book will not be closed to those concerned, if this could ever be the case. The report reflects the clinical facts and the backgrounds, but this always contrasts with the sincere emotions of those directly involved. The press conference of both ministers unleashed a storm of protests. Former professor Diekstra, for example, described the report as "moral and formally serious under the heading." On the other hand, the editor-in-chief of Medical Contact indicated that it was a solid piece. I would like to receive a response from the Minister on this point. The CDA has already expressed concerns about the lack of cooperation between the Health Inspectorate and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The committee also cracks hard notes about this. The lack of communication between the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Health Inspectorate is sad and staggering. There must be good, new agreements on cooperation between the Health Inspectorate and the Public Prosecutor's Office. I would like to make three points. The first point is that the implementation of the new agreements is taking far too long. So does the Health Minister. She mentioned this earlier in the debate. However, it is the Minister for Security and Justice who can do something about this. It is the Public Prosecutor's Office that has to approve the new agreements. That is also clear from the history of law. What is the Minister of Security and Justice's commitment to ensuring that there really is a new cooperation protocol before the summer? I come to the second point. Much confusion and anger was caused by the fact that the Health Inspectorate did not include in the order the reason for setting the general practitioner off. If this had been the case, it would probably have prevented a lot of social unrest. The Health Inspectorate thought she wasn't allowed to do this because the D.A. forbade it. That stubbornness and peckishness of the Public Prosecutor's Office is the CDA a thorn in the eye. The report shows that the Health Inspectorate could indeed have made a public announcement. You can see here that the interests of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Health Inspectorate are colliding. How does the Minister of Security and Justice view this? What kind of interest was at stake here? The third point is that the Health Inspectorate imposed the order for seven days. After that, the minister should have extended the order. Unfortunately, that dramatic event occurred at that time. But I do have a question here. In what way was the minister or were its officials involved in the preliminary process in the imposition of the order by the Health Inspectorate? And when were executives of the VWS Department involved in the event in Tuitjenhorn? Why isn't this part of the evaluation? The background to these questions is that the idea arises that the Ministry of Health was also involved at a certain point in time, as the Health Inspectorate falls within the remit of the Minister. You don't actually read anything in the report about the role of the ministry itself. As my colleague from the PvdA said, there has been a break in trust between the GPs and the Health Inspectorate. It is absolutely essential that this trust comes back. This means that both the general practitioners' organisations and the Health Inspectorate have a role and a responsibility in this. How can the VWS Minister make a good contribution to this? That is actually the same question as the one my colleague from the PvdA asked. All in all, this is an extremely painful matter. I really hope this is the only one and the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u9	Mr. Chairman. I am speaking tonight on behalf of the SGP Group. Today, one and a half years after that, we are talking about a tragic event, a personal drama for family doctor Tromp from Tuitjenhorn and for his next of kin. From this place, I would like to express my condolences to them. A year and a half ago, events quickly followed each other. It is good that we have asked each other for an independent evaluation. This evaluation is now available. I would like to thank the committee for its thorough report. I would like to thank the Minister of VWS and the Minister of Justice for both being present at the presentation of the report. I believe that this does justice to the seriousness and sensitivity of this case. With the cabinet, I hope that the publication of this report will contribute to the processing of events. I express myself lightly when I say that this case has caused a lot of unrest in the field. The case-Tuitjenhorn has given a sense of insecurity, while safety is so important to care in the final phase of life, both from the doctor's and from the patient's perspective. As I said, there is a thorough report with a well-considered analysis of what happened when exactly, and what the various parties involved have done about it. We must be careful to criticise the actions of the IGZ and the Public Prosecutor as such from the dramatic outcome. Well, mistakes have been made. The government rightly states in its letter that not everything has gone well and that lessons must be drawn for the future. The report contains four recommendations, which are adopted and implemented by the government. For example, the report calls for better cooperation between the inspection and the prosecution. The report states: "The usual procedures have been followed, but more tailor-made work could have been done on parts." Of course, the procedures must always be followed in the care sector, but I would like to stress that care in the last stage of life is also very important in order to avoid unnecessary damage, unrest and grief. The report shows that there are 21 guidelines and field standards for the provision of care in the final phase of life. The care questions faced by a doctor in the final phase of a patient's life are complicated. I want to make sure that today we are pleading for new standards and new directives. I would ask the Minister to focus more on training and further training in the palliative sedation directive. Does the Minister agree? Acute sedation concerns a specific circumstance to which the Palliative Sedation Directive deals very briefly. I think it would be a good idea to clarify this. Will the Minister discuss this with the committee responsible for the directive? A GP doesn't have to be alone in making complicated decisions. We've arranged for each other to speak back. Consulting teams have been set up for palliative care. These are not only there to solve acute problems, but also to be consulted on medical, nurse, psychosocial, philosophical and organisational problems. The teams are made up of professionals standing by all over the country. I hear from the field that their expertise is being used too little. How did this happen? I ask the Minister if she would like to raise the profile of these consultative teams.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u10	Mr. Chairman. The authorities have acted correctly. When this conclusion of the evaluation committee came out, a quiet trip was organized in Tuitjenhorn. Hundreds of people involved walked through the village and flags hung half stick. Their message was clear: acting correctly in this matter did not mean the same thing as human action. My group shares that message. We do not have the human dimension, not only in the activities of the Health Inspectorate and the Public Prosecutor's Office, but also in the evaluation committee. Because there is a link between the actions of these authorities and the tragic suicide of general practitioner Tromp cannot be denied. In debates on wrong doctors, such as the debate on Jansen Steur, the Minister always points out that there must be hearing and hearing again. Now, why didn't the inspection get the intern's report and the doctor's re-examination immediately follow? Isn't this the first mistake made? Also, the Minister once said: "Before you put things on the walls, so that everyone can read them, things must be handled carefully." Well, this case had not yet been resolved and yet the general practitioner was already mentioned by name and name, also on the internet. Once publicly nailed to the shame pole, he was severely harmed in his defense and hearing again. Hasn't that disclosure been a second mistake? There have never been complaints about this general practitioner before. He was found good enough by the AMC to act as a trainer. Why was it based on one complaint from the worst, namely the suspicion of murder? Admittedly, the complaint was serious, but we are talking about an involved health care provider and not a unscrupulous criminal. Because of the classification "murder" there had to be a claim for detention. Wasn't this classification wrong again? Correctly or not, the whole issue seems to be characterised by a accumulation of wrong estimates from various agencies that have eventually driven GP Tromp to despair. They were wrong estimates because they preferred to adhere to the cold protocols of the system rather than to empathize with the motivations of a health care provider. So the big question is how we get the human dimension into the system. How do we ensure that the principle of hearing and hearing is properly applied by the inspection before further formal or legal action is taken? It is precisely from inspection that we expect not only a critical look, but also a professional dialogue. I'd like to get a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u11	Mr. Chairman. As the previous speakers have said, we are talking about a complex case, of which everyone knows the deep tragic outcome. My condolences to the next of kin are also in order. It is not up to politics to go deeper into the case itself, namely the medical action around the end of life, and to judge it. It is therefore a good thing that there is an independent evaluation report. We have to decide what we can learn from this tonight. It is good that ministers have promised to accept the recommendations contained in the evaluation report. However, the overall conclusion reached by the ministers on the basis of the report, namely that the authorities have acted carefully, remains to be seen in my mind. I'd like to talk to you about that. When reading the report, I get the impression that the authorities may have acted according to the letter, but not always according to the spirit of the law. Procedures and protocols have gone through well, but the human size was lost. Also in the report the human side of the story remains underexposed. The general practitioner was treated from the outset as if he had committed a crime and was a danger to all his patients, while he had a good reputation as a general practitioner and trainer and the wife of the terminal patient could also agree with his actions. This also witnessed the quiet journey that was taking place in Tuitjenhorn this month. The fact that the AMC didn't seek contact with him and also the fact that a team of nine had a strong comb of his practice, must have cut in with the GP. However, the report concludes that the authorities have acted with sufficient attention to the personal circumstances of the general practitioner. Colleague doctors have a completely different opinion on this. I would like to hear from the VWS Minister whether she can endorse this conclusion of the evaluation report. The case has led to great social unrest. More information about the case did not come out until a later stage, but it did reduce the unrest. Moreover, a survey of general practitioners shows that the vast majority of the Tuitjenhorn case has not been more reluctant to apply palliative sedation. The general practitioners are well aware of the existing directive, which also allows for a well-founded derogation. However, 9% in the survey indicated that events have made them more reluctant. I would like to know from the Minister how she thinks this report can contribute to removing the unrest that had arisen among general practitioners and which is still there in part. An important conclusion of the report is the lack of good communication of the IGZ with the outside world. The communication department was called in too late and the social consequences were not sufficiently overlooked. The case also revealed a lack of cooperation between the IGZ and the Public Prosecutor, with the low point of the two restrictive measures imposed on the general practitioner in a week, while the general practitioner was no longer at work at that time because of all the events. So it's clear that the IGZ and the D.A. need to work better together. Mrs Bruins Slot has already asked worthy questions about this. I ask the directors how this cooperation can be better developed in practice. What specific points of improvement are there? Can the Minister of VWS also respond to the National General Medical Association, which believes that the evaluation committee is too lenient about the role of the inspection and the prosecution? The report rightly recommends that confidence be restored between the profession on the one hand and the inspection on the other, which is far from complete. That seems very important to me, but of course it is not self-evident. I would like to know from the VWS Minister how she is going to initiate the consultation between them. Can she also involve the general practitioners in training? In this group, too, the situation has led to unrest. And how do we keep the finger on the wrist? Because restoring trust is difficult to measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u12	Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate is dramatic. Family doctor Nico Tromp from Tuitjenhorn put an end to his life. He was, given the many e-mails I have received about it for my colleagues, it will be no different and the many reports that have appeared about it in the media, very much loved by his patients. Whatever happened, whatever the political weight of the facts, the outcome will always be unsatisfactory, because the relatives and patients will continue to feel the lack. I would therefore like to express my sincere condolences to them. The VVD attaches great importance to the careful legislation and implementation practice around euthanasia that we know in our country. It is a practice in which patients suffering unbearable and hopeless can choose a gentle, self-chosen death. The euthanasia law rightly contains a number of important due diligence requirements. For example, there must be an express declaration of will, a fellow doctor must have been consulted, who must give a written opinion on the matter on the basis of due diligence, and the end of life must be carried out medically carefully. A doctor who complies with due diligence shall not be prosecuted. The facts in the case we're discussing today, we've all been able to read. There is no doubt that, in this case, the legal and procedural requirements for due diligence have been violated very widely. It is precisely because we attach great importance to maintaining a careful euthanasia practice that we consider it important to take action when the rules and procedures are violated. It is therefore right that IGZ and the Public Prosecutor have acted in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u13	Because it is precisely that that has caused so much unrest, I attach myself to the following. Mr Rutte is now talking about euthanasia. It has become clear from the reports that there was absolutely no euthanasia. In order to avoid getting it all mixed up again, I would ask Mr Rutte not to name it as such. Actually, the question is, why does he do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u14	We're talking about ending a doctor's life. We could also call it palliative sedation. But even then, the whole case did not comply with the relevant directives. The point is that we have good guidelines for the cessation of life by a doctor and we have also outlined a legal framework for this. We attach great importance to that kind of care. Within the framework of that care, no prosecution would have taken place. In this case, we know that the facts went beyond due diligence. That also explains the actions of IGZ and O.M. As painful as that was for the doctor, we understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u15	I do not think it is necessary to go into this case in more detail, so I will leave it at that. However, I would like to mention that this was not explicitly a case of euthanasia that has also been tested and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u16	I agree with Mrs Dijkstra. The declaration of will and such were not there, so you could no longer qualify it as euthanasia. But I really attach great importance to the care taken by doctors in the end of their lives. I'm moving on. In view of the dramatic outcome, and the great social uproar that ensued, it is good that the Minister appointed an independent committee, led by former Vice-President of the Bleichrodt Supreme Court. This committee evaluated the behaviour of all the bodies concerned. The main conclusion is crystal clear: "Nothing has shown that the action of public authorities can be classified as a series of missteps or that it should lead to this outcome. However, this picture has been embedded in public opinion." "The Committee's report shows that the AMC, the Public Prosecutor, the IGZ have often acted correctly, carefully and with sufficient attention to the personal circumstances of the GP." On a number of points, the committee sees improvements and recommendations are made. As far as the VVD is concerned, all these recommendations must be taken on board. I would like to comment specifically on one recommendation and I am certainly not the first one today. That is the recommendation to restore trust between the IGZ supervisor and the general practitioners. This is very important for the patient who should be able to rely on good care, but it is of at least equal importance to the doctor himself, especially in the case of very sensitive care, such as cessation of life. The physician must feel secure and supported by proper careful legislation and procedures, which are subject to prudent and adequate supervision. This form of supervision can only take place if the trust relationship between the general practitioners and the IGZ is restored as soon as possible. This requires efforts by both the general practitioners and the IGZ. But I can imagine that the Minister can and will play a role. What role does the Minister of VWS see for himself to speed up the process of restoring trust between IGZ and GPs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u17	That the amount of medication that has been administered leads to research doesn't surprise me. But what does the VVD think about the fact that the final adoption of the inspection led to the view that "this is a life crime, the public prosecutor has to watch" and that all this time there has been thought of murder? And what does the VVD think of this being taken over by the evaluation committee, since it has retroactively approved that the AMC has not had any collegial consultation? That is not what you do when you suspect a life crime, she explains very cumbersomely. Would it not have been better if the evaluation committee had regularly reviewed and also demonstrated whether the path of murder was still the right one?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u18	I chose very specifically not to walk past all the facts in this case. I do not think that is very appropriate for this debate. That is precisely what the Committee of Inquiry has done. I've read the report very well. Those facts are passed by very finely. Then you can see that the complex of facts is really a bit wider than Mrs Leijten is sketching here. It was not just about the amount, but also about the way in which it was administered and the speed at which everything happened. There was a lot of it. In the end, I really think it is up to the authorities to assess how it is qualified. I can understand it when I see all the facts. But I do not think it is up to me to give that assessment, as I do not think it is up to Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u19	No, but since we will never again know how this criminal trial, in which 'innocent' was certainly an option, would have ended, it is something that should be taken into account by an evaluation committee, or by two directors who respond to that evaluation committee. "It's a flagrant violation of patient safety." That impression has been made. It comes from the report of the evaluation committee and has been taken over by the inspection. "It can be explained that no hearing and hearing has been applied, for repetition was possible. A family doctor was murdered." It doesn't make me happy. One of the questions that, of course, lives not only here, but also publicly, is: has the action and manner of action possibly contributed to Tromp's suicide? That is, of course, essential if we are to know whether the course taken 'this is murder, this is a crime of life' is being reviewed at sufficient times and whether it could also be weighed differently. I note that this did not come out in the evaluation committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u20	Mrs Leijten, would you like to come to your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u21	Doesn't the VVD also think it's wrong that this doesn't come out of the evaluation committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u22	Looking at the facts in this case, as set out very clearly, also by the Bleichrodt Committee, one can only conclude that it is a very exceptional case, in which exceptional medical action has also taken place. Well, that does explain why the case went the way it did. It is extremely dramatic that the GP ended his life in the end. Bleichrodt concludes that this cannot be explained by the actions of the supervisory authorities. I think I should agree with that. That doesn't change the fact that it's a dramatic end. There is a report here with a clear conclusion from a committee that has checked everything: the actions of the supervisory authorities did not lead to the suicide. It is not up to us to suggest here that it might have been and could have been prevented if suspicion had been weakened. I'm not going along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u23	Both directors have indicated that they need fifteen minutes to prepare the response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u24	Mr. Chairman. A debate in connection with the case of Tuitjenhorn is difficult, difficult because, in addition to the action of the public authorities concerned, the action of the deceased general practitioner is also central. He can no longer defend himself, as several spokesmen have said. By the way, it is clear that the general practitioner was very popular, not only in his own environment, but also in his patients. This is also evident from all the statements of support which have also come to my attention. It's also understandable that his widow would stand up for her husband. Her loss is therefore understandable to me. I also express my condolences to all those who have been affected by this tragic event. However, from my role as Minister responsible for the conduct of the Public Prosecutor's Office, I must also look at the facts. This case has been investigated by the Public Prosecutor's Office and the IGZ. The Bleichrodt Committee has assessed their actions. The Bleichrodt Commission has carried out an independent investigation and such reports are of their nature businesslike, especially when it comes to the evaluation of public transactions. I understand that this can also be seen as a chill to the family doctor's neighbors. The committee's report also shows that things could have been better. We must and have learned lessons for the future from this. I am very grateful to the committee for the thorough analysis of the events and the valuable recommendations. The report guides the reader through the events in this case and gives a clear picture of the facts, dilemmas and considerations. Contrary to what has been said, I do not think it is a formalistic report. I thought I heard one of the spokesmen say that, too. I see in the working method and in the report a broad weighting with regard to all interests and also with regard to the human dimension. This was also apparent from the discussion I had with the Bleichrodt Committee as a minister, a discussion in which we discussed the human dimension in detail prior to the presentation of the report. The Committee concludes that the Public Prosecutor's Office has rightly initiated a criminal investigation and that this investigation has been well organised, expeditious but, above all, carefully carried out, taking explicit account of the personal circumstances of the general practitioner at several times in the investigation. At the same time, the Committee also commented critically, in particular on the cooperation between the Public Prosecutor and IGZ on taking preventive measures and providing information after the unrest. We take these comments to heart. As we have also written in the cabinet response, we accept the committee's recommendations. There are lessons to be learned for the future, and we have learned those lessons. At the same time, in my view, the results of the investigation underline the importance of doctors acting in accordance with the law and the professional standards they themselves set, in this particular case the palliative sedation directive, and the importance of the role of the Public Prosecutor's Office as a final act. It starts with the law and its own professional standards and the Public Prosecutor's Office only comes to the very end, if that is the case. In the case of life-threatening behaviour by a doctor, great care must be taken by the physician. In the end, it's someone's death. Transparency and testability are very important in this respect. That is how we arranged it in the Netherlands and we deliberately arranged it, because the lines are thin. Therefore, care and proper justification are essential. A doctor who acts in accordance with professional standards and then conducts tests has nothing to fear from the police or the judiciary. This is also evident from the very small number of medical criminal cases we have in the Netherlands. And of course, as has also been pointed out by a number of spokesmen, there are always situations where there is a need to derogate from the directives. But it is precisely in such cases that transparency and explanation are needed. That's what the Bleichrodt Committee says. And even then, if there is such an explanation and transparency, there will not be any immediate cause for judicial action. We have to note that this testability and transparency has been lacking in this particular case. Acting on various aspects outside the applicable professional standards led the Public Prosecutor's Office to conduct an investigation and the Committee also confirmed that there was sufficient cause. Mr President, I come to the questions raised by the individual Members of your Chamber. Mrs Leijten and, to a certain extent, Mrs Klever also asked whether the death of the general practitioner could have been prevented if things had gone differently. More specifically, it has been asked whether the Public Prosecutor's Office has somehow contributed to the sad outcome of this case. Mrs Leijten said that nothing was said about this in the report. In my opinion, the Bleichrodt Committee has drawn a conclusion on this. That conclusion is that nothing has shown that public authorities' actions can be classified as a series of missteps or that public action should lead to this outcome. Mrs. Arib has...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u25	Before you go any further, I see that Mrs Leijten has a question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u26	I asked the question whether there was a gap in the report because the question of whether public trade might have contributed to suicide is not answered. The sentence that it should not lead to this outcome is basically true, because you can never say one-on-one that everything is directly related. The question must be asked as to whether the action of the prosecution and the inspection could lead to this outcome. That question won't be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u27	That question will be answered in a certain way, and my colleague will go into it further, because the committee notes that there are a number of points where no further information could be obtained because of the professional secrecy of the doctors concerned. One thing is certain: the conclusion reached by the Bleichrodt Committee on the basis of the information made available to it is that the action of the public authorities cannot be classified as a series of missteps and should not lead to the fatal outcome. The Committee would also point out that this picture has taken place in public opinion and that it is regrettable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u28	The Bleichrodt Commission finds that the Public Prosecutor's Office unnecessarily imposed the arrest and suspension order because it was unaware of what the Public Prosecutor was doing. This happened just before Mr Tromp's suicide. The question may not be whether the behaviour should lead to the suicide, but whether they could lead to it. Let me reverse the question. Does this Minister consider it impossible for the action of the Public Prosecutor to have led to Mr Tromp's suicide?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u29	Let me begin by answering the first part of Mrs Leijten's question. The committee has looked very closely at the precise role of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Firstly, it notes that there was a reasonable presumption of guilt to a criminal offence. It is therefore established by the Committee that, given the facts as they are on the table, the Public Prosecutor's Office had sufficient reason to initiate a criminal investigation. The Committee then considers that the searches of the house and the practical space have been carefully prepared and carried out. It concludes that the personal circumstances of the general practitioner have been taken into account in the organisation of the interviews and that careful action has also been taken on this point. Next, Mrs Leijten spoke about the decision of the Public Prosecutor to file an application for detention, saying that there is doubt about it. The purpose of that claim was that the doctor would no longer perform palliative care or euthanasia, not that he would be taken into custody. It was precisely the condition that could be attached to it. I note that the judge commissioner, the independent judge who has to give his consent, has given his consent. In this respect, it is understandable that the Public Prosecutor's Office says that there can be doubt about it. The prosecution has also learned lessons from this, but that the court has given its consent; that is the way it is going in the Netherlands. Mrs Leijten asks whether I can rule out the possibility that the action of the Public Prosecutor or of anyone else in the file could have led to the suicide of the general practitioner concerned. I can't. I can't rule out one thing, but neither can the other. I am certainly not going to speculate about it in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u30	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u31	No, Mrs Leijten, we agreed that one interruption would be allowed with a follow-up question. You've had these in the meantime. The Minister continues the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u32	Mrs Arib asked how I, as Minister of Security and Justice, look at the suspicion of a life crime. Other members mentioned the concept of murder in this context. Perhaps it is good to stick to the facts in this case as well. It has been established that the Bleichrodt Commission finds that there was a reasonable presumption of guilt to a criminal offence. So the D.A. was allowed to bring the criminal investigation. That's what the D.A.'s office did. Then there was a suspicion of a life crime. We've incorporated an article into the law for these kinds of cases. That's Article 293 of the Criminal Code. This concerns the so-called criminal euthanasia. Criminal euthanasia applies if there has been death by a doctor. That is punishable unless the rules laid down have been complied with. That's how the law works. If those rules have not been observed, there is primarily criminal euthanasia. Subsidial, so in so far as that would not be the case, the prosecution has charged murder, because those two facts are very similar. But primary use was made of the article that we specifically incorporated into the law, namely the article on criminal euthanasia. I would also point out that there was also the suspicion that a declaration of natural death was wrongly issued, as follows from the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u33	My question was not so much about the case, but about how to deal with the qualification "murder." The evaluation report states that this is a legal qualification, but that it is difficult to do medical work, not only for doctors, but also for judges. That's what my question is about. Is the Minister prepared to explore these concepts so that they do justice to the sense of society that lives there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u34	That is exactly what I have just said. I've indicated what the facts are. The facts are that primary criminal euthanasia has been charged, the particular article of law that we have specifically incorporated into the law for euthanasia cases where it is not a good thing, because that is what it is all about in the end. So it's called "punished euthanasia," which is not murder. But in the alternative, in case that can't be proven, this is how it always goes with the D.A.'s office, it's murder, because ultimately it comes down to the crime of murder. Because if you deliberately rob someone of life, it's murder according to our law. I cannot explore how that should be otherwise, because we already have a separate provision, which has also been used by the prosecution, namely the criminal euthanasia.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u35	However, I would like to ask the Minister to read the report very carefully, including page 21. The answer the Minister just gave is correct. It's in there, too. But on page 21 at the bottom, Appendix 18, it is also very clearly stated that it is advisable to look at it in a different way in the Code of Criminal Law. I think this is on the matter of GP Van Oijen, but it's too small a letter to read. Perhaps the Minister can take not only the big letters but also the small print. Perhaps he will come back to that later, otherwise I will come back to that myself in my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u36	I'll just grab it, 'cause I might be able to get it right away... No, it's taking me a little too long. I think that's clumsy. I will come back to it in second place. However, one thing is certain: the main rule is that we have a separate piece of legislation that does not qualify as murder but as criminal euthanasia, for the cases involved. Subsidiously, murder has been charged because that is the system as the Public Prosecutor puts it. Mrs. Klever also asked about the issue of murder. I'll give her the same answer. It is precisely because of the special case that the Public Prosecutor has joined the separate article of law that exists for these cases. It has also been explicitly stated that if a doctor complies with all the rules that exist, including the rules of the palliative sedation directive drawn up by doctors themselves, there is no criminality. That is exactly what we have based the whole euthanasia legislation together here in the Chamber. Mrs. Bruins Slot has asked for the protocol between the Public Prosecutor and the IGZ. It asks when this is done and what the Minister of Security and Justice is doing to ensure that it is achieved quickly. I am pleased to report that I do not have to do anything about it. The IGZ and the D.A. are currently finalizing the renewed protocol. The renewed cooperation protocol is signed by the IGZ Inspector-General and the President of the College of Attorneys General in mid-June. I will send the protocol to the Chamber together with my colleague from VWS for the summer recess, as Mrs Bruins Slot asked. As Minister of Security and Justice, I note, also on behalf of the Public Prosecutor's Office, that cooperation between the Public Prosecutor's Office and IGZ is of great importance, not only in such cases but also in other cases which the Chamber has regularly discussed. That is why the protocol is of great importance. That cooperation could definitely be better. That's the lesson we took. Mrs Bruins Slot has also asked me how I look at the way in which the Public Prosecutor's Office has dealt with the communications on this matter. The D.A. has its own responsibility in our system. The Public Prosecutor's Office independently weighs the importance of any disclosure in relation to the importance of the investigation. It may be assumed that the Public Prosecutor's Office does not, in principle, make communications about criminal investigations, including in order to protect the defendant's interests. The death of the general practitioner did not alter the position of the Public Prosecutor's Office because, now that the general practitioner could no longer defend himself and also out of piety with the next of kin, openness about the facts was seen as an over-infringement of privacy. The committee has then said that it understands these considerations, but notes that there was no absolute obstacle to greater openness. That's what Mrs. Bruins Slot pointed out. The committee then says that good consultation between the IGZ and the Public Prosecutor's Office at this stage could have led to a different solution, which would do justice to the resulting social commotion. As I said in the presentation of the report and in the policy response, I endorse these conclusions of the committee. The cooperation protocol takes account of this in accordance with the recommendations, so that it is possible to make a different assessment in this type of case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u37	It is precisely because of the obstinacy of the Public Prosecutor's Office at this point that the inspection ultimately did not have much room for action to make a better assessment. The Minister also notes that, but I asked him another question, namely: what does he actually think?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u38	I think it could have been different. That is why I endorsed the committee's recommendations and that is why the protocol has addressed them. I do understand, and that is the explanation I have just given why the Public Prosecutor is doing so. In such cases, perhaps in this case, the Public Prosecutor's Office had a legal interest, as it is called in legal circles, in respect of the importance of the family members and the people in the vicinity of the general practitioner, not to make any other communication about this. In retrospect, it has been established that the choice could have been made differently. That is why this is addressed in the cooperation protocol.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u39	But you can see in the report that the balance of interests of the Public Prosecutor, because it was made behind closed doors, has mowed away the grass from the feet of another public authority, who might have made another decision that could have prevented much social unrest. The question is whether the Public Prosecutor's Office should not consider in such a balance of interests within its powers the social interests that need to be taken into account more broadly and the interests that another public authority, such as the IGZ, should also consider. I am asking this so explicitly because this is a key issue that is more often settled, including in the other issues that we have discussed here in the House of Representatives on the cooperation between the Public Prosecutor and the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u40	That is also why the Committee has ruled: "The aforementioned protocols do not provide for the alignment of such partial decisions between the IGZ and the Public Prosecutor." That is the debate on the application for detention and the exclusion of part of the IGZ's appeal. That is why the Committee has recommended that the protocol be kept under close review on this point. The Committee also considers that the Public Prosecutor's Office should have left the prevention policy, to which Mrs Bruins Slot refers, to the IGZ. We have endorsed these points as directors. That is why we also passed that message on to the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u41	I also talked about the route the prosecution has been following and the verdict of the prosecution that there was a possible life crime here. I asked if there were any other possible reasons or qualifications for the administration of this medication at certain times. We can, for example, read in the report that the Bleichrodt Committee subsequently asked whether the search should have been carried out at the time it took place, because there was an acute risk of recurrence. We know that there was insufficient coordination between the prosecution and the inspection later on. Has the D.A. come up with the idea that maybe it wasn't just a criminal offense? Has that occurred to the D.A. in the period from 26 August to 8 October?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u42	I find it equally difficult to give a good answer to the question, because Mrs Leijten ties in with a number of conclusions from the report which do not belong together, on which she asks a question that does not correspond to those conclusions. The question that Mrs Leijten asked at the end of her interruption is whether the Public Prosecutor's Office has ever considered that there was no life crime. If the Bleichrodt Commission is very clear on one point, it is the point that it finds that there was sufficient reason to investigate the Public Prosecutor's Office because there was a reasonable suspicion of guilt of a criminal offence. There is only one criminal offence in this case that may have been committed, namely the criminal euthanasia of Article 293 of the Criminal Code. That's because someone died, and so there's a life offense.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u43	The D.A. concluded at an earlier stage, together with the inspection, that they were still moving together, as the evaluation report shows that there would be an acute risk of recurrence. In conclusion, the Bleichrodt Committee raises doubts, both initially, at the time of the search, and ultimately, at the time when the IGZ imposes the order and the D.A. limits the exercise of the profession. That is not really in Mr Bleichrodt's conclusions, but afterwards it is a signal from the committee that the public prosecutor could have been a little more reluctant at certain times, taken more space and entered into the conversation. The D.A. could have made some considerations that might not have led you to "murder" or "guilty," but would have followed a different path.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u44	What is your question, Mrs Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u45	My question was, first of all, whether there was no moment of reflection at the public prosecutor's office from 26 August 2013 to 8 October 2013 in the line of: wait a minute, something else could be going on!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u46	The public prosecutor's office is to enforce and enforce the law. That means that the D.A.'s criminal justice department always starts with a description of the crime. According to the report of the Bleichrodt Committee, a description of the offence in accordance with Article 293 of the Criminal Code is fulfilled. Then it is not for the Public Prosecutor's Office to go into all sorts of considerations. Then the Public Prosecutor's Office has only one mission, namely to apply the principles that we have for that purpose in Dutch criminal law and to consider whether prosecution is necessary for this crime. That's the D.A.'s job. As the Committee noted, there was sufficient reason to proceed with criminal proceedings. Those are the facts that I have to deal with as a minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u48	My question about reflection has been put both in my first term and now twice, but I do not get an answer as to whether the prosecutor has taken the time to reflect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u49	Mrs Leijten, the Minister is talking about his own answer. I now give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u50	Mr. Chairman. We often have debates in the care of laws we make, measures we take and money we allocate, debates with human dilemmas. Care is about people every time. Today's debate is another debate. Not a general debate, but a debate on a matter which, in my view, only losers know. A debate that deals on the one hand with the enforcement of rules we have agreed on euthanasia and palliative sedation, a socially heavily loaded and heavily debated subject. On the other hand, a debate is about a seriously ill man and the action of a general practitioner who can no longer explain this, who was very popular in his village and with his patients. We have all been able to see that on this quiet journey. The patient's next of kin must deal with their great loss, and so must the family members of the general practitioner. His widow wrote us a letter through the paper. Of course, I sympathize with her, and I understand that she's fighting for her husband's rehabilitation. My condolences to all the next of kin. There's more involved. I'm thinking, for example, of the resident. Also with her, this case has left traces. There's no other way. She is in training and teaches that doctors should be able to test themselves and that you should report if there is reason to do so. Doctors should not keep each other's heads above each other's heads and cover each other's backs, but give each other a degree of openness and accountability, as she hears time and time again from the social and political debate. It has dealt with it in detail: consults with its trainers in advance and finally reports. That's good, and that takes courage. Do not report or report, a collegial conversation or not; no matter what you do, even if you do the right thing, afterwards it feels bad. The government draws up rules and laws and, in this case, instructs the IGZ and the Public Prosecutor to maintain and, if necessary, prosecute. People also work at the Health Inspectorate and the Public Prosecutor's Office; people who do their work on behalf of all of us. With them, too, a case like this leaves its mark. Guards and investigation services aren't doing very well soon. They are too passive, they do not protect the patient sufficiently and they do not act decisively enough or they are blamed for acting too fast and too strongly and thus lacking human standards. Do we now want public access without prior assessment of the reports or the order or only after an assessment, and whether or not we do not want patient information and medical data? Here, too, there are many choices. Politics is also sending out different signals about this. Rules and laws, protocols and guidelines; they are important in the care, but with regard to the end of life they are even more important. Whether you are for or against euthanasia, for or against a voluntary end of life, the agreements are crucial and their application is crucial. The patient's declaration of will plays a crucial role in this. This also applies to the consultation between the doctor and his patient and possibly his lover, as well as to the cooperation in the medical team and the involvement of a second doctor. It is important that in these situations the doctor should be able to test himself, others should be able to watch and document what he is doing and why. It is precisely here that the care of action is so important. At the same time, the emotions are sincere and deep and the dilemmas are large and insensitive to some extent. All this makes this debate feel like a stone on my stomach. As Minister of VWS, I have a great commitment to questions and actions around the end of life and I am very proud of our euthanasia law, our practice and the development that we are going through with palliative sedation. I don't think that law is finished yet. I have therefore asked a committee of wise people to advise on the possibilities and impossibilities of a completed life. I also see that in practice there must be room in the directives and that one situation is not the other. Everyone agrees on that. I believe that the medical organizations pay serious attention to this and are constantly paying attention to it. Once again, we are in the process of clarifying the declaration of will and its significance. A careful route is important for both the doctor and the patient. I see the burden that doctors carry in daily practice. I understand their doubts and think that we should support the work of doctors in this area as much as possible. After-training in the field of palliative sedation is important, so that doctors and district nurses have sufficient knowledge. Consultation teams palliative care can very well support individual doctors. They must be accessible and findable. There should be enough SCEN doctors and the statements of the RTEs should be available to the profession. Considering all this, it is important that an independent committee led by Mr Bleichrodt, former chairman of the Supreme Court, with knowledge of supervision and enforcement and of general medical practice, has also investigated the facts. I would like to thank the committee very much for its thorough work. The report shows a clear account of the facts, but I appreciate that very much....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In doing so, the report gives the nuances that are needed when we talk about this case. When I received it, I said that the reader was taken at hand in what happened, at what time it was, how the people involved acted and what dilemmas were involved. From this you can read that the human dimension played an important role in the trade-offs. That struggle is sometimes visible in the report. The report also teaches us that we can do better and that we must do better. We fully accept the recommendations and are already in the process of implementing them. We have an international liberal euthanasia law in the Netherlands. Some want them to be even wider and others find them to be very far-reaching. Whatever you think about it, the due diligence requirements and the boundaries have been discussed and discussed and laid down in the law and in directives. There is a very clear distinction between euthanasia and palliative sedation. It is essential that we also hold and guard the boundaries we set. If we don't do that, we'll get to a slippery plane that adversaries are so afraid of. If there are no shades of gray, but a considerable crossing of borders, then that must be examined by the enforcement authorities, and that has happened here. Every organisation must want to improve itself and learn. The committee has made recommendations which we fully accept and which we are also taking up at the moment. There must be more trust and a better relationship between the inspection and the LHV. I initiated the first conversation between them myself, and I was there too. I understand a second conversation has already taken place. I think that is an important route and I can assure the Chamber that I will keep my finger on the wrist. Better cooperation between the prosecution and the inspection throughout the journey is needed. An improved cooperation protocol is now being finalised, which will be completed in June. Another point is the earlier and more complete disclosure of information by the inspection. Then, of course, we are talking about the balance between the privacy of those directly involved versus openness to the profession. This balance of interests is now required by law. At the moment, the Health Act bill is before the House of Representatives. It lays down that, in future, disclosure is to be carried out without any balance of interest. However, the bill does not allow for the disclosure of traceable information to the patient, while the Bleichrodt Committee considers that at an earlier date more patient-related information, the dosages, should have been released in order to mitigate the disturbance in the profession. We will talk about this more closely, but we must also look at it carefully. How do we strengthen the internal and external communication of the inspection? That's what it takes. We need to work on that. The inspection picked this up. I regard this as an important point and important lesson from the report, as well as the completion and further development of open standards in the Quality Act healthcare institutions. Has there been sufficient attention to the human aspect during the investigation? The Bleichrodt Committee's report shows that tailor-made work is needed in these situations. I endorse that. I therefore do not agree with the statement that it was lacking in this case at the time of the inspection of customisation. That is not the conclusion of the committee either. Customisation is important; the inspection has a lot of attention to this in supervisory practice. It cannot be said that situation A leads to measure B. However, the form of judgment must be verifiable and therefore transparent. The professional quality of inspectors is essential here. The Committee finds that there is a profit for the inspection. The inspection is of high quality and invests in its inspectors through its own inspection academy. From the learning organisation she is, the inspection itself has also evaluated the case and learned lessons from it. In addition, in the context of the improvement process, it has launched a professionalisation project to prepare inspectors and lawyers even better for the increasingly complex supervisory practice. I would like to draw your attention to some of the facts which are also mentioned in the Bleichrodt Committee's report. The search of the house and the practice room of the GP took place consciously in the evening hours, so that it would stand out as little as possible in the small community of Tuitjenhorn. Before the interviews took place with the treatment staff of the ggz institution where the GP was staying, it was checked whether he was in a position to be interviewed, which they considered to be the case. It's not just one long interrogation, it's a short interrogation. The doctor has always been asked if he was able to continue the interview. The inspection also chose to make the order public only in part, out of piety with the next of kin. Hasn't disclosure been a mistake? There is often talk in the Chamber about the importance of greater transparency in care. Often all inspection reports are asked to be made public by default. I told the Chamber I'd come back to that before the summer recess. We also regularly discuss the protection of whistleblowers. There is therefore a call for greater transparency, inter alia with the aim that patients can use information about care and any mistakes made by healthcare professionals when choosing a healthcare provider. Is there a mistake because there hasn't been hearing and hearing? The Bleichrodt Committee has held that in some exceptional cases there may and should be derogations from the standard of peer consultation. The committee noted that this was the case in this case. I agree. I think this was such a case. There were then some comments on the evaluation. It is clear that the committee's report has been received differently. Some doctors disagree with the Committee's conclusion that the AMC has rightly not applied any collegial consultation in this case, but there are also doctors who consider it justified that the inspection and the prosecution have initiated a criminal investigation in this case because the performance of the general practitioner was really contrary to the guidelines. There is therefore a difference of opinion. I know that the LHV has a different opinion on this than the Bleichrodt Committee. It's possible. A committee shall be set up independently and shall reach an independent judgment. In turn, interested parties and professional associations may take an independent position on this matter. I think it is very important for the inspection and the LHV to have a good conversation with each other and, step by step, to review what is and is not possible, what is and is not reasonable and what they expect from each other. In this way one can build confidence in one another. That is an important aspect. I have just indicated that I will contribute to this if necessary. The Minister of Security and Justice has already addressed the relationship between the Public Prosecutor's Office and the inspection. This relationship has been rightly recommended by the Committee, namely that there should be better cooperation throughout the whole process. We have therefore adopted this recommendation. Before the summer there will be a cooperation protocol. It is also necessary to inform the public prosecutor and inspection more frequently about convictions of caregivers in the private sphere. We have had a debate on this very recently. That's a lesson from the case of a psychiatrist with private child pornography. That too will be given a place in the new cooperation protocol. I don't think the inspections and the D.A.'s assessments are far apart. According to both, this was not in the grey area but well over it. Of course, the general practitioner had a different opinion on this. The sad thing is that this cannot be further questioned, because the general practitioner cannot, of course, explain why he did what he did. Why was there no one at the inspection who had the overview? The Committee does not conclude that the inspection did not have an overview.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u51	It has already been said so many times that the human dimension has been taken into account, and indeed the committee does not conclude that there was no overall overview, but I think we can draw it ourselves. There was a doctor who was seriously ill. He wasn't able to work. Observations were arranged in the general practitioner's practice. This is what the committee describes. It says: in fact, the order was as it was imposed, the speed with which it was done, the procedure as it has gone through, the lack of time taken to get the general practitioner to respond to it and so on and so forth was unnecessary. She doesn't put it that hard, but the conclusion I draw from what Bleichrodt describes is that there was no one with an overall view. That is why I ask the Minister: why was there no one with the overall overview that the chance of repetition was absent at the end of September, which would have allowed other actions of the inspection, for example a personal discussion with the general practitioner or a closer examination of his illness, until the order had been imposed? That is why I asked: why was there no one at the inspection with the overall overview of the situation in Tuitjenhorn?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u52	The difficulty of Mrs Leijten's question is that she has a long introduction which contains a lot of her own interpretation of the report, which I really do read differently. The report draws fairly clear conclusions on the action of the public prosecutor and inspection. There is no conclusion that there was no overall overview. There is, however, a conclusion that OM and inspection should cooperate better, because in this case the GP twice within a week of "the government" for a normal person is IGZ and OM "the government" received the same message. That was double-up and therefore not necessary. That's what we care about. I think that's a fair conclusion too. I'm not okay with that either, so I'm gonna go along with that. However, the conclusion reached by Mrs Leijten and not by the committee is that no one had the overview and an order was imposed too quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u53	It was not known at the time of the inspection, as the evaluation committee also said, that a letter had been sent to all the patients of the general practitioner's practice stating that the general practitioner had been put temporarily inactive. That wasn't known. That's crucial information. An inspection which had applied the human measure, which had kept in touch and which had entered into a personal conversation with the GP, which she did not do once before the order was imposed, which is simply to be established from the report of the Evaluation Committee.... could have known that. That is why I ask the Minister: why is there no overall overview? Shouldn't the inspection blame itself for that? Or should the Minister not blame the inspection?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u54	The committee has stated that the inspection has acted in accordance with the law. You're acting like that's not important. If the inspection had not acted in accordance with the law, you would have been standing here and probably asked why the inspection had not complied with the law. It is therefore very important for the inspection to comply with the law. The law is very clear on what the inspection should do. You're right to say that the inspection didn't know about that letter. This one was never sent to the inspection either. By the way, the inspection still doesn't have that letter. That is true, but agreements have been made with each other on how to act in situations such as those that have occurred. The inspection has acted according to the law and the agreements. I think it is far too short to say that the inspection at this point did not do something that it should have done. I do not read that in the report of the Bleichrodt Committee either. I also do not think that the suggestion that the inspection has allowed image to go beyond care is reflected in the report. If you read the report correctly, you can see that every time, at every stage, trade-offs have been made and that in those trade-offs there were always dilemmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u55	Mrs. Leijten, this is your last interruption. I'll give you one more than we agreed. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u56	I didn't hear an appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u57	Mrs Leijten, I said two interruptions. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u58	I certainly wasn't back by then, Mr. Chairman. The report clearly states the following. The inspection ordered it not to work anymore because it assumed that the D.A. would come forward with a detention order, and a press release on that. The inspection would not like questions to arise as to what the inspection had done. That's why the inspection acted as a matter of urgency. Can the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u59	As for the fact that both an order and a detention order came after each other, the committee rightly said: that means that someone gets twice a message from the government, which is not necessary and which can have a significant impact on someone's state of mind.I don't know what it says exactly, or at least on someone's life. I can imagine. I accept the committee's criticism on that point. I'm not okay with this happening. Moreover, the committee did not say that the order should not have been issued. She said that the detention order shouldn't have gone over that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u60	A brief follow-up question, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u61	This isn't the same as what I'm talking about. The inspection decides, on the basis of the investigation by the Public Prosecutor, that a non-active person must be established immediately and intends to publish it as soon as possible in order to prevent the public prosecutor from publishing anything first and only after the inspection. Was that based on image or content?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u62	No, it had to do with the gravity of the case and the concerns that the inspection had had on the basis of the information she had received from the resident and on the basis of the information that had emerged about what had taken place there. It wasn't nothing that happened there either. Mrs. Bruins Slot asked about the command and involvement of the VWS ministry. The inspection itself imposes an order for up to seven days. She does that on the basis of her independent judgment. She'll text VWS about that. However, VWS is not involved. There is no involvement of VWS until there is an extension after seven days. Then it's up to the Ministry. Many questions have been asked about the discussion between the inspection and the LHV. I have already replied in part. I think that is very important. That conversation started. I myself took the initiative for a first conversation. There's also been a second conversation. The question is whether I am prepared to involve the general practitioners in training. I'll leave that to the family doctor's association, but I'll make her the suggestion. Am I willing to pay more attention to dealing with complex issues such as those surrounding the end of life in general practitioners' training? Yes. I have already indicated in my introductory text that there has been specific attention to care around the end of life in the continuing training of medical specialists for some time now. It is already part of the general practitioner training. I think that's important, and I think it's necessary, because this is complex.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u63	I'd like to return to the course of events in the period around the warrant. All these events have also had a lot of media coverage from the outset. The inspection is part of the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport. More often, it has been found that in cases with a high media profile at a certain point in time, in addition to the inspection, the other managements of the Ministry were also involved. That's what I asked the Minister. Have any other executives of the Ministry been involved in this throughout this process?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u64	The order is an independent decision of the inspection. The inspection often imposes an order, and informs me about it. I'll take that for a heads-up. If there is an extension, for example, the Ministry does have a conversation, with hearing and hearing again. Then there will be a whole process, in which the Ministry is indeed involved. In this case, it is as follows. Once the independent supervisor uses his powers in an individual case and transfers that case, as in this case, to the D.A., we have nothing to do with that. Those are all matters that take place within the inspection. In individual cases, we are not going to intervene in this regard either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u65	My question was something else. During the period from August to October, the VWS Ministry was involved in this case in any way other than the inspection. I explicitly ask this because I do not see that role evaluated anywhere in the report, while in this kind of complex, media sensitive cases there is often involvement from the Ministry other than the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u66	No, because we didn't get there. On the day on which the interview with this general practitioner was planned on the basis of which the extension would or would not take place, the general practitioner had by now committed suicide. So that conversation didn't go through. And then there's going to be a lot of things going on that we as VWS aren't primarily committed to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u67	My question is something else. The minister keeps getting back on the order, that part...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u68	That beginning, the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u69	I have now asked whether, in the period from August to October, the VWS Ministry, other than the inspection, has been involved in this matter. So throughout the entire period, not just with the warrant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u70	Not that I know of. I wasn't involved in that. I am looking back in the Chamber now, and the inspection also indicates that we were not involved during that period. Later on, when this case ended up playing. We have, of course, been involved in setting up the committee and so on. But if Mrs Bruins Slot asks me if I have been involved in the period before October, my answer is no. We would have been if that conversation had continued, but it has not continued. I'm just gonna check it out just in case, because I don't know what else to tell you. I will come back to this explicitly in the second term. Mr. Chairman. I come to the concern of the general practitioners with regard to the application of the palliative sedation directive. Mrs Dijkstra mentioned the survey of Medical Contact and the NCRV. It was also specifically about palliative sedation. The doctors indicate that the directive is well known and to be followed. The report shows that this case does not fall within the scope of the Directive on palliative sedation. I can imagine that this will remove the possible residual unrest on this point. In particular, I think that improving the relationship between general practitioners and inspection is very important in this context. Am I willing to focus more on education and further training? In December 2013, so shortly after the Tuitjenhorn case, Medical Contact and the NCRV conducted a survey among general practitioners on palliative sedation. I was just talking about that. Palliative sedation involves pain relief and loss of consciousness through the administration of sleep medication. The results of that survey confirm the picture of previous investigations. There is good and professional medical care in these situations. The NFU has also indicated that palliative sedation around the end of life is part of the continuing training of medical specialists. It was also asked whether I would like to talk to the committee on the directive on acute sedation. In the regular discussions with the KNMG, where this committee is housed, I will draw attention to the subject of acute sedation. Consultation teams palliative care are too low in sight. Why is that? I was asked if I'd like to raise the profile of those teams. I think that these consultation teams have a great value and I would like to see more publicity. The National Programme Palliative Care includes the dissemination of knowledge about the availability of these teams. I attach great importance to the dissemination of knowledge about the existence of these teams.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u71	I would like to thank the Minister very much for the commitments on the directive. The committee itself considers that the paragraph on palliative sedation in the directive is quite brief. The Directive dates back to 2009. I thank the Minister for the commitment that she will discuss this with the KNMG. Can the Chamber at any time be re-connected or the KNMG take action on this or that it does not want to leave it to the old? I would very much appreciate that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u72	That's what I'm telling you. When, then, Mrs. Fat asks. I think we can inform the Chamber about this after the summer recess. I now turn to the gap in the evaluation report. The Minister of Justice has already given some thought to this. We believe that the report describes the case from different perspectives and we do not see any need for additional research. Furthermore, the Bleichrodt Committee notes that medical professional secrecy, which includes the treatment relationship between the general practitioner and his psychiatrist, is a reason why it has not been able to investigate this further. The psychiatrist has therefore been unable and unwilling to provide any further information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u73	One of the main recommendations in the report is to invest in the relationship between the general practitioners and the inspection. Almost the entire Chamber has drawn attention to this, because it appears that confidence has simply been damaged. The Minister admits that she wants to contribute to this. In what way will the Minister ensure that the relationship of trust is actually established and that doctors feel supported in medical action involving such dilemmas?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u74	You can check whether the directive is in need of acute sedation modernisation or an update. The report also notes that the confidence between the inspection and the general practitioners was already low. That scared the hell out of people. The report states that both parties must invest in this. I initiated the first call, and the second call has already taken place. I'll keep an eye on that trial. I'll see if there's any progress in that. If there is not, I will see how we can achieve more progress and increase confidence. That is really necessary, because this is not only true for this case. We have also seen on other issues that there really is a need for greater confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u75	I would like to thank the Minister for taking a concrete form. I was afraid it was a general wish, but that is not the end of it. My second question concerns the position of the resident. The report shows, after a great deal of criticism, that she had rightly deviated from non-disclosure with the general practitioner in this case. But there is a fear that this will be seen as a kind of pass, so that residents will no longer consult with general practitioners but will do so directly with their coordinator. That only leads to more misunderstandings. That is why I asked the question about training. Because peer consultation must be the norm and residents must be equipped to be critical. If something is wrong, they should first go through it with the doctor concerned, unless there is a life crime. So I would also like to give a little more priority to this, because it is important for the residents as well as for the general practitioners and for the training institutes that their relationship is going to be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u76	I fully agree with Mrs Arib. It is crucial that this is addressed in training. It's very difficult business. It's hard to talk to someone; if you're a doctor, but also if you're a doctor in training or an intern. It's always hard to talk to each other, but it's very important. I will therefore ask for special attention to be paid to training which is specifically addressed in the programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u77	I would like to thank both directors for the first-term response. Speaking time in the second term is 1 minute and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u78	Mr. Chairman. Conclusions which may not be drawn can be drawn. For example, the publication of the order for the general practitioners concerned would have a huge impact, the recital was practically hardly relevant and there was insufficient consideration of whether there was an alternative to the publication of the order. That's just what the report says. My question to the Minister for Security and Justice was whether the conduct of the prosecution and the inspection could have led to the suicide of Mr Tromp. And yes, that's true; we can't rule that out. It is therefore not possible for the ministers to say that it is impossible that the course of action did not lead to suicide. I find the statement that the law has been complied with, and therefore well, with this outcome in fact extremely painful. Acting is well-spoken, while an individual has been crushed. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Tuitjenhorn evaluation committee concluded that there was no evidence that the action of the public authorities could be classified as a series of missteps and that it should lead to this outcome;]] [[considers that this has not yet answered the question of whether the action of the public authorities has increased the risk of suicide of general practitioner Tromp;]] [[Whereas further research on this issue is desirable both in the interests of survivors and for the reflection of relevant public authorities on their own functioning;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate further whether the action of the Health Inspectorate and the Public Prosecutor's Office has increased the risk of suicide of general practitioner Tromp,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32647-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u79	I hope you will allow me to make one more comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u80	You may make a brief remark, because you are well over your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u81	I do not think that the human dimension would have been demonstrated by the fact that there was no discussion between the inspection and the general practitioner before the order. Nor is there any reference to suicide in the examination of the inspection itself. This has apparently not led the inspection to reflect on its actions or to look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u82	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their answers and their commitments. That saves me a number of motions. There is one point on which the Minister of Security and Justice would return. Since I now have my second term, I still choose to file the motion. Then I'll find out what the Minister thinks about that. It concerned the legal qualification "murder" in cases of medical action. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, when acting around the end of life, doctors have a genuine intention of serving the interests of their patients;]] [[Whereas the legal qualification of "murder" in cases of medical treatment at the end of life is proving to be highly unsatisfactory not only for a doctor concerned but also for judges;]] [[considers that the qualification "murder" does not reflect the social feeling surrounding medical action around the end of life;]] [[calls on the Government to explore the possibility of including another provision in the Code of Criminal Law in respect of life-ending actions by doctors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Arib. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32647-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u83	Mr. Chairman. The dramatic events around Tuitjenhorn are and remain deeply tragic. A feeling of unease and loss is left behind. I have listened carefully to both regiments. They promise to get better when it comes to cooperation between the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Health Inspectorate. Of course, this isn't the first time I've heard this. I can't be any clearer than I've been right now. This must no longer be the case with words, but it must also be done in the end. I think it is very good and sensible that the Minister of Health sees an important task for himself to restore confidence in the general practitioners and that she feels a responsibility to bring it about. I also see a responsibility there for the general practitioners' organisations and the Health Inspectorate to work for this. That confidence, the guarantee of freedom of action for general practitioners, is extremely important. To come to a conclusion, it is all very painful. It touches the people directly involved. I must say, however, that the report contrasts with the sincere and deep emotions of those involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u84	Mrs Dik-Faber will refrain from speaking. I call Mrs Dijkstra of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u85	Mr. Chairman. I'm not 100% prepared yet, but I'm gonna try anyway. I would like to thank both ministers for their answer to the questions. It is good that the recommendations contained in the report are taken on board. In my first term, I have also said that this is important, because this particularly dramatic case has revealed, among other things, the lack of confidence of general practitioners in the inspection. It is important that this is done quickly. The Minister says that involving general practitioners in training is a matter for the profession itself. But if the Minister insists on this and mentions it in her contacts with the general practitioners, I think that will help to achieve that. Then I have one more comment. The Minister writes that she hopes that this report can contribute to the processing. I find it difficult to see how this contributes to those directly involved. I can imagine that the serious work of the recommendations might contribute to this. I would like a response from the Minister to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u86	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u87	I would ask Mrs Dijkstra and Minister Schippers to stop their bilateral talks. Mr Rutte has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u88	Mr. Chairman. Many thanks to the directors for their detailed answer, in which they once again explain how complicated it is for supervisory bodies to make the right decisions on these matters with the human dimension and in view of the particular case, especially in such an exceptional case, to make the right decisions, to coordinate them properly and to communicate correctly. It is and remains human work, very difficult, as the work of a doctor remains human work. It is very good that the rulers confirmed once again that, in the event of death by doctors, whether it is palliative sedation or euthanasia, it is extremely important that this is done within legal and procedural frameworks, precisely because it is all so sensitive. They should be aware of that. If they think that the boundaries should be different, then we must discuss them at another time. Many thanks to Minister Schippers for not waiting for this debate in the important recommendation for the restoration of trust between the general practitioners and IGZ. It has already taken action and started the process. I really hope that will lead to results very quickly. Perhaps the Minister can keep us informed of progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u89	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their input. First of all, I would like to answer Mrs Arib's question, which she also raises in her point of order. How do I look at the note on page? 21 of the report, where it comes to the qualification "murder"? I can't escape having a legal treatise on that. I've been able to read the note completely by now. We are looking at the dilemma we face. If a person wishes to have committed euthanasia at his express and serious desire, it is in principle punishable, unless all applicable rules are followed. In the first period of time, I also mentioned this. At the moment when there is no explicit and serious desire, that possibility of Article 293 lapses and so there is someone who has been killed by someone else without his serious and express desire. And for that we know only one qualification in our Code of Criminal Law, and that is murder. The note and the discussion in Section 2.1 of Chapter II "The criminal investigation" concern the fact that the Public Prosecutor's Office has primarily charged "criminal euthanasia," i.e. euthanasia without complying with the rules. According to the committee, it is certain that there was no further request from the patient concerned. After all, he had stated to his express and serious desire that he would not have committed euthanasia. So what the Bleichrodt Commission is signalling here is the dilemma the Public Prosecutor's Office faced. On the one hand, it was a doctor who ended someone else's life without complying with the standards in force, but on the other hand, it was also serious the question... Actually, it was not a question, because on the other hand, it was clear what the situation was, namely that there was no question of the requirement of Article 293, the express and serious desire. That is the discussion raised in that chapter. In the note it says: then it is actually murder. But the D.A. also felt this wasn't entirely appropriate. I have been thinking about the suggestion made by Mrs Arib and the professor quoted in the note that you should actually have a different term for that. The problem is that you keep coming up with the article murder in our Code of Criminal Law if you go looking for another term. Because that's someone deliberately trying to kill someone and rob them of their lives. That is what actually happens if there is no express desire to end life and at the same time no rules are observed which may lead to either criminal euthanasia or are not punishable by euthanasia because you have complied with the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u90	I would have preferred to avoid a discussion about the qualifying murder and whether that qualification covers the load. That's why I asked for a reconnaissance. So I am not saying that the Minister should accept my suggestion. Explore what's going on, partly in response to that previous court ruling! That is why I referred to it, and that is also what the motion says. Murder is deliberately killing someone. If errors are made in euthanasia, the doctor has acted medically but has subsequently shown that the procedures have not been followed. Of course, this does not affect the criminality, but it does not affect the difference in emotional value and social charge. That's what this term is all about for me. I'd say explore it. After that, we can always come to the conclusion that it is wise not to do it or that it is wise to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u91	I fully understand the dilemma raised by Mrs Arib. In itself, it's something you might be looking at, but I do have to row with the belts I have. The pronunciation quoted in the note actually gives the answer. In its judgment of 3 June 2003 in the case of that specific general practitioner, the Amsterdam Court stated: "In a case such as the present one, the qualification "murder" is not in line with the generally related social sentiments, but is a legal-technical term, which cannot be avoided by the way in which legislation has requested the review of cases such as these." "The way in which legislation has requested the review of those cases" is our crime of murder. As much as I would like to do so in this particular example, I cannot change anything about it, because the definition of "murder" applies to the situation where there is no criminal euthanasia and there is no palliative sedation. If Mrs. Arib asks, "Would you like to explore it?', I should say 'honestly I do not see the need for that'. In the light of the discussion, however, I shall leave the motion tabled by Mrs Arib to the House's opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u92	Mrs. Arib, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u93	Very briefly. The Minister quotes the note, but at the end of that note it says: "In this context, proposals have been made to include a separate provision in the Code of Criminal Law in respect of life-ending behaviour by doctors. This would not remove the criminality in itself." That's the whole quote, but I'm glad the Minister leaves the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u94	That is what it says, but the question arises as to why this has not been followed up. The answer is what I just said: you can include another article of law with exactly the same description of the crime, but that does not lead to any other conclusion. It is also very nice that the Bleichrodt Commission indicates how much the Public Prosecutor has struggled with this issue. I take the view from the committee's report that the Public Prosecutor's Office considered that the provisions of Article 293 were not actually complied with and that therefore there was no criminal euthanasia, but that this was primarily charged, because the public prosecutor felt that this was most appropriate in this particular situation. Actually, I also think the D.A. did exactly what you might expect. I'll leave the motion to the Court's judgment. If the Chamber considers that further exploration is needed, I would add that I am not ruling out that we are reaching the same conclusion as I have just drawn. Mrs Bruins Slot asked whether, in general terms, the Minister does not think it is important that it should not just be words, but that action should also be taken. This was about whether the Public Prosecutor's Office learned from the recommendations of the Bleichrodt Commission. In the first term, I made it clear that the Public Prosecutor's Office immediately took action because it recognised the need for the protocol to be adapted. This will also be sent to the Chamber before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u95	Thank you. I will give the floor to the Secretary of State of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u96	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Leijten says that there has been no discussion between the inspection and the general practitioner. That conversation has been there, in the presence of his lawyer. It's become a point of view. The doctor only knew shortly before the interview that it would be an opinion call. As to why the inspection did not take into account the fact that the GP had sent a letter to all patients, the answer is that the inspection was long in ignorance or a message would go out. The inspection has therefore decided to make an order public itself. I would also like to point out that I am not making a substantive assessment of the order. That's under the judge, and I'm not making any judgments about that. In her motion, Mrs Leijten asks the government to investigate further whether this action by the Health Inspectorate and the Public Prosecutor's Office has increased the risk of suicide of the GP Tromp. The committee wanted to hear the doctor in charge of the general practitioner. It has relied on medical professional secrecy and has not spoken to the committee. New research will not change this and new research will therefore add nothing to what the committee has done so far. I was Mrs Bruins Slot yet another answer...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u97	Before you answer Mrs Bruins Slot, Mrs Leijten has a short question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u98	I had asked a question in my first term, which the Minister did not answer. I think you can indeed answer the question whether your actions, the extent to which you acted and how you acted have contributed to the tragedy that took place on 8 October. I asked whether it would be possible for the inspection to feel co-responsible in any way for the tragedy that took place on 8 October 2013. Would the Minister still like to answer this question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u99	I find it a bit difficult to start a reasoning in which you say that you cannot rule out that trading in this case of the inspection has contributed to... You can never rule that out. There are a lot of facets that have played in this case, which have been able to contribute to... I mention in the report the conversations with the general practitioner, who acknowledges that things have gone wrong. Maybe that also contributed to... You cannot establish afterwards, by means of an investigation or whatever, whether one or the other, in all facets that have played a role in this case, has contributed to... I think this is something you can never deny or confirm.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u100	Mrs Leijten, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u101	This is already a nuance of the letter we received on 31 March, because it took on board the firm conclusion that this should not lead to the outcome of the suicide. Now it is said that this is actually inexplicable. I think that I have already said that in the first period of time the gap remains that this question is not being answered. It is a relevant societal question whether the conduct and accumulation of actions, especially at the end of September and early October, have not led to such pressure that this has led to suicide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u102	What's your question now? You're making another big argument, but what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u103	When I see that the evaluation committee finds that at that crucial stage errors have been made by the inspection and the prosecution, I would once again ask the Minister whether it is possible for the inspection to feel co-responsible in any way for the suicide of the general practitioner Tromp.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u104	No. I also reject a whole argument in which there are all kinds of assumptions and conclusions that I cannot support and which the report has not produced either. What I am saying is not at all contrary to our letter. Mrs Leijten seems to read that differently, and I do not think we are going to get out of it very much. I do think this case is, of course, a matter of nuance. But there are so many facets. If you read the report correctly, you can see very well that all kinds of elements could have played a role in the suicide of this general practitioner and that you can never afterwards ascertain to what extent they contributed. Mr President, you will not be surprised that I have to discourage the motion. Mrs Bruins Slot has asked about the involvement of the VWS core. She said he was going until October 7th. There was no involvement, except that a conversation was planned. After October, the Ministry was involved, because after the suicide it became an important part of the social debate and there were all kinds of parties who liked it. There was social unrest. VWS has interfered with that. The involvement of the VWS core has indeed been investigated by the Committee. The three most concerned officials were also heard by the committee; see the list of persons heard in the report. The inspection also refers to this. The Committee has apparently seen no reason to comment on the role of VWS in its investigation. Mrs Dijkstra asks me, not without commitment but with some urgency, to draw attention to the involvement of the general practitioner in training. I'll bring it to warm attention. I will also take into account the feelings that are evident in the Chamber. I think the LHV itself is open to that. But I will. At the press conference I indicated that I hope that the report will contribute to the processing. I hope so, too. But I have to tell you, it's also very difficult, given everyone's positions. There are, of course, a lot of people involved in this and I can imagine how, for example, the widow of the family doctor Tromp has responded to this. That's what she did in an open letter. I can understand that. I see the case on another side, and I see the matter as Minister responsible for legislation and regulation, the regulator and the whole palette. That doesn't mean I can't sympathize emotionally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-15.u105	I would like to thank both directors for their second-term response. Vote on the motions is tomorrow. I would like to thank Members for their input. I would like to thank the people who are here or who have taken note of this debate at home for their interest.
