ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister. I wanted to give Mr Merkies of the SP Group the floor first, but I see Mr Omtzigt walking towards the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u2	Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group had asked for an explanation for the debate on the amount of the additional 133 million transferred to the EU. Now there has been a press release online for 45 minutes that there was an error in the budget and that it is the supplementary budgets. We have been informed of this before. That was about an amount of 55 million. That leaves a $78 million hole. Even worse, there is a press release, but no letter has been sent to the Chamber. If there are mistakes, I find it difficult to debate. How can we debate accountability if the accountability in itself is still incorrect and incomplete?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u3	You've made your point. I understand that the letter will be distributed to the Members of Parliament at any time. I actually want to make the proposal to start the debate. I assume that we will receive the letter in the course of the debate. At least that's what I can decide right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u4	I think this is crazy, because I'm gonna start now, but I don't have that information yet. When's the letter coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u5	Other spokesmen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u6	I would like to support Mr Omtzigt's point that the Chamber should be given the answer to the questions as soon as possible. As far as the PvdA is concerned, the debate can just start.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u7	Maybe there'll be a little information on how long it's gonna be before that letter arrives. If it takes a very long time, I would say: let's get started, then we can take that information with us in the second term. Otherwise I would say: let us wait a very short time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u8	I would just like to say that if the other Members do not want it, then it is fine if the letter is there for the time when I am standing there, but Mr Merkies must begin. If he wishes to use this letter, we must either wait a moment or give him the opportunity to ask additional questions at the end of the first term. But I think it's sloppy that this is already online. That could be better from the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u9	Can't we get some clarity on when that letter comes first? What else are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u10	That's being worked on right now. I see that others also want to start the debate, so I suggest that we start the debate. Then I hope that letter comes in the afternoon. Otherwise, you can make another point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u11	All I am saying is that I hope that this will be taken into account, so that I can respond to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u12	Good. You now have the floor, Mr Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u13	Mr. Chairman. It is again the time of the year when we traditionally look back at last year and see if bad policies have been properly implemented. For that, it is good to go back to the vision behind the 2014 policy. The cabinet set three priorities: achieving the 3% standard, achieving the 3% standard and achieving the 3% standard. In this respect, the cabinet has succeeded. The main message of the Finance Minister was last Wednesday: now that we have the figures, we can say without reservation that 2014 was a good year for public finances. However, it raises the question of whether this country is governed to please Brussels or to make our society more beautiful and better. It seems to me that it is the people who have to do the last thing, because of how we handle our money carefully, without closing down all nursing homes, because of how we can help people who do not have a job right now. We read in the accounts that in 2014 there were 818,000 people in the WW or in the assistance. A huge number, especially when you consider that for a large part of these people there is no prospect of improvement. I wanted to say something about Brussels, but I am concerned about the letter that is not yet available. I'll skip that, unless the Prime Minister has something in front of him that he can say about. I don't see him nodding in agreement, so I'll keep that until later. Together with the accounting documents, the reportages of the General Court were presented with the theme "time for implementation." She meant that things should not be rushed through so that there is time to do things properly. Unfortunately, too much is happening that the government is rushing things over people's backs. Then, of course, I am thinking primarily of the pgbs and the 20,000 caregivers. The SP deeply resents the Secretary of State for Health that he has thrown them into deep trouble and has given them many sleepless nights. For months, people who work with heart and soul in care have not been given a penny. There's been a build-up of debts. It's borrowed from family and friends. For months there has been work without pay. This shows the loyalty of employees in the care with the people they care for. Service, perseverance and perseverance, even when the money tap is shut down. My party has great respect for that. It is therefore scandalous how these people have been treated by this cabinet. Although the Secretary of State has been warned many times, he just pushed on. Haste, haste, and prestige were more important to him than care for the people. As far as I am concerned, there is also an apology to all those people who have been undermined by this cabinet policy. What the Secretary of State has actually done is push the accelerator hard while the light was on red. It happens more often in this cabinet. We also see it in the case of decentralisation and the marketing of care. Over the past year, we have seen that the Netherlands is done with the way in which the health insurance companies control care. Generalists drew a massive manifesto to revolt. They want to get rid of product because they do not want to compete as a market merchant with their colleagues. Two-thirds of all general practitioners signed that petition. That shows how far the cabinet is from society. The market thinking, the belief that patients are products, is widely rejected by the Dutch. We do not want a health insurance company to decide which doctor we are allowed to go to. We do not want specialists to be paid per operation. It is precisely if we want to curb the cost of care that doctors should not be encouraged to over-production. Everyone understands that except apparently this cabinet. Where control is removed from people, calculators and managers take over. On paper and on the calculator of the cabinet the plans may look nice, the reality shows all too often a different picture. The question I ask again and again is to what extent the cabinet listens to society and to the people in the workplace. I am also thinking of the AIVD. The findings in the General Court's report are downright devastating. It is an example of what absurd austerity can lead to. Several experts have warned that the initial plans to delete one third of the AIVD budget would cause problems. In the Chamber we also warned about this. My colleague Ronald van Raak said about this: 'all the expertise we are losing now needs to be rebuilt later'. He proposed to hold a hearing with the heads of the AIVD and the STUDY, but it was blocked by the minister. Now, two years later, we hear the head of the AIVD confirm the story of the General Court. That happened last Sunday at Buitenhof. There appeared to be no vision other than that there was a need to cut back. As a result of the attacks last year, money was added, but the damage had already been done. In 2013 and 2014, the outflow of employees doubled. Valuable knowledge and experience have been lost, writes the General Court. At the same time, funding for the training academy has been cut. That is precisely when new people need to be attracted and trained to fill the gap. This is an example of how blind austerity does not produce money, but ultimately costs money. More importantly, however, it is at the expense of our security. What lessons does the government draw from this? The General Court also points out that the government is far too firm in its statements on security and prevention. There is no idea of the effectiveness of the measures taken to prevent crime. How will the cabinet improve on this? Another service where the execution was very poor I would almost say that it is traditional to be the Tax Administration. The number of deficiencies has increased and the service is equipped with outdated systems. I'm thinking, didn't we have that discussion here ten years ago? The cabinet was convinced at that time that the Tax Administration could pay out much better and more efficiently than others could, and there was a surcharge circus that had been rushed into. Very soon it appeared that there was very little attention to automation. Even then it was found that there were outdated systems, that there was a lack of knowledge in the Tax Administration and that the ongoing reorganisations at the Tax Administration only aggravated the matter. For my political life I have been in automation and engaged in making business processes more efficient. I can tell you, it never started with a reorganisation where 5,000 men were thrown out. It began with mapping processes, setting up a plan and information architecture and with extensive planning of work. An efficiency impact that ultimately makes you work with fewer people can at best be the result of a process where you first invest in a better infrastructure and an organisation that can do its job better. How can this cabinet throw 5,000 men out of the Tax Office........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Isn't that asking for trouble? The Secretary of State takes meatloaf very literally by cutting his own Tax Office. Why doesn't he put the ICT in order first? Why does he not first strengthen supervision and first revise the tax system? If this leads to an efficiency impact, he can then examine whether the workforce can be adjusted. What's happening now sounds like the horse pulling behind the cart. The theme "Time for implementation" could also be interpreted differently. It is time to start working on a simpler and fairer tax system, but also to tackle the enormous debt problem in this country. A year ago, I also paid quite a lot of attention to this subject here in the plenary. Yesterday, the annual report of the professional debt relief association, the NVVK, showed that the average debt of people in debt relief has increased again. They also reported that the number of people with insoluble debts has doubled over the last three years. Recently, a study by Utrecht University of Applied Sciences also showed that many people are knocking on the door of debt relief in vain. That is also the image of the aid workers themselves in youth care, addiction care, ggz and probation. Their clients barely get access to debt relief. It is estimated that 150,000 people each year come to the municipality in vain for professional debt relief. Wouldn't it be good if, when presenting the Millions Note, some more concrete goals were set for tackling private debt, such as: you can pay us off? That would also make the debate on accountability a little more interesting. Now it seems that only one number is taken into account. I have never been given so much time to discuss one number. The ultimate example of government spending being more important than debt is the debt system, also known as the euphemist "social loan system." The government already encourages people to make debts during their studies. What message do you send with that? This policy does not appeal to students to the social importance of good higher education, but to the individual interest: to settle debts in order to earn a lot of money later. In the eyes of this cabinet, therefore, return is not a better society with more knowledge and experience, but a financial gain for the student in question. Isn't that an outdated vision now? Everyone, both inside and outside the Chamber, thinks education is very important. But who amazes me? No one knows where the 600 million extra from last year's autumn agreement went. The same applies to the 1.2 billion spent on the professionalisation of teachers. Doesn't the Prime Minister find that very frustrating? Cause is the lump sum financing and the system of the Ministry of OCW. Schools receive all the money as a single budget; no demands are made on it. As a result, it is a large black box, to the frustration of teachers. They say that they really do not see where that extra money has gone. Why doesn't the Prime Minister propose education to cut the lump sum funding? Then we can also get an insight into exactly what schools do with the much-needed money. Finally, I come to the issue of growing inequality. That's what you'll expect from me, Mr. Chairman. The OECD has estimated that the gap between rich and poor in the OECD countries has reached the highest point in 30 years. Does the Prime Minister think that this is a worrying development? How does he explain this development? How does he think it can be combated? Its approach is desirable not only from a social point of view, but also from an economic point of view. The OECD has also calculated that income inequality in the Netherlands has cost us 5% of growth over the last 20 years. How does the Prime Minister explain that, during the last two Cabinets, 150 000 more people have fallen into poverty? I asked the Minister of Finance if he sees a relationship between growing wealth inequality and growing poverty and debt. I got an answer to that last week. The Minister stated in his reply that he would see that connection. It's a profit that he sees the connection. Only the cabinet then finds it completely normal not to do anything. It looks to others; it does not create jobs but hopes that an international revival of the economy will create jobs. It hopes that the municipalities will help people with their debts, but also saddles them with ever more tasks for less and less money. In fact, the government hopes that debt will disappear as house prices rise. If that were the case, I wonder what happens next to the tenants. They're just being saddled with huge rent increases. I therefore think: time for implementation, but in the sense of time for action. Don't wait and see, but make your own plans to solve these problems. Not with a hidden austerity operation, as is often the case with this cabinet, and not at a drawing table, as we have seen all too often, but by talking to people who do the actual work. That's the way you offer perspective to this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u14	Mr. Chairman. The discussions we have in this house are often about money. What problems do we, as a society, consider important enough to spend our scarce and finite taxpayers' money on? Today we are not only looking back at what we spent the money on, but also at whether this has led to the desired result. After all, this will only be interesting if we can answer the question: what has it achieved? Thanks to our choices, is the Netherlands better? Are we on course? As far as we are concerned, the answer to this is: yes, the Netherlands is better, although this is not yet palpable in the wallet after years of crisis, bad news and deteriorating prospects. So the job is definitely not done yet. The Netherlands has been kicking ass for the last five years. Reforms on which much has been done for decades have been limited: the reform and decentralisation of the WMO, the Participation Act, youth care, the reform of long-term care, the study advance and the financial review framework for pensions. The affordability of our healthcare system, one of the best in the world, has greatly improved. Of the total cut of 22 billion planned until 2017, 21 billion has now reached the parliamentary finish line. I'm just gonna ask the cabinet what's going on with that last billion. The year 2014 was the year of the cover. After years of bad news, the economic weather forecasters delivered a hopeful message in 2014. Slowly but surely, government policy paid off. The budget deficit was much lower than expected by 2.3%. In fact, a budget deficit of 3.3% was expected. Government expenditure was 2.6 billion less than estimated. A compliment to Minister Schippers is in order here. After years of overruns in the budget of VWS, which returned with the regularity of the clock, there was a surplus on that budget for the second year in a row in 2014. This ultimately translates into affordable care premiums. The economy has started to grow again, with a small 1%. This was mainly due to increasing exports. For a trading country like the Netherlands, exports are often the driving force behind economic growth. Exports increased by 4%, but growth also increased thanks to entrepreneurs who dared to invest more. The recovery was also clearly visible on the housing market. House sales increased by as much as 39% in 2014. Slowly but surely things are going well in more areas. After years of decline, there was on average a modest increase in purchasing power. These percentages are positive, but they are cold figures. It is important for the VVD that people can not only read about the economic recovery in the newspaper or hear about it on the journal, but that they also experience this recovery themselves, for example because they have more money left in their wallet or because they have a job again. Traditionally, the labour market is slowing down in response to economic growth. This is very painful for the people looking for a job, but the labour market also shows signs of recovery. We are far from there yet, but in the second half of 2014 jobs finally came back. We saw the revival especially in the last quarter. Then 42,000 jobs were added. More people also joined the labour market. The positive trends from 2014 continue this year. In 2015, the economy is expected to grow by 1.7%. Exports are once again one of the pillars of recovery. But our entrepreneurs also invest more. This is an increase of 3.8% 2015. In 2014, this increase was 1.5%. According to the CPB, around 90,000 jobs are expected to be created annually in 2015 and 2016. I do have a question about the labour market. The General Court's documents show that the effectiveness of the sector plans construction & infra is unclear. The Court of Auditors wonders whether they have contributed to structural employment. The Minister of SZW said that it would not be possible to make individual evaluations per sector plan. However, the VVD thinks that there can be an added value in this. After all, it is a question of spending EUR 600 million of public money, and it is precisely the question we are discussing today, namely whether the money has been well spent. So I wonder whether the cabinet cannot look at the effectiveness of the individual sector plans. The Netherlands is moving forward again, thanks to the great sacrifices made by all the Dutch. The fact that not everyone notices progress yet motivates us to keep course. The crisis isn't over until it's over for everyone. We have a duty and a responsibility to ensure that all these ambitious and necessary reforms work properly in practice. I told you the job hasn't been done yet. The Court of Auditors rightly states that it is now a question of implementation. That's a big challenge. We believe that we should take responsibility not only for the introduction of laws, but also for their implementation. After all, the law is only the instrument, but it is about policy. We have said from the outset that it would not be easy and that things would undoubtedly go wrong. This is inevitable now that we are making major changes in almost all areas of our society, of our country and of the government. That is why we have said: if things go wrong, we intervene and send in. This year, the year of implementation, will perhaps be badly needed. We are assisted in this by the General Court, which, in its investigation of accountability, addresses a number of important issues which are also of interest to the VVD and on which my group would like to put a number of questions to the cabinet. I come first to the fight against fraud. The Court writes that the fight against fraud improved in 2014 but that there are also bottlenecks, for example in the areas of data exchange, knowledge building and fraud-free regulation. The VVD is committed to fighting fraud. It welcomes the Court's conclusion that it is improving, but also reads that it can do even better. Can the government say what it will do in the coming years on the issues of knowledge building, data exchange and fraud-free regulation? I'm coming up on ICT and the government. Many times it has been shown that this is not a happy combination. The Court notes that there is a challenge in the use of ICT in the public administration. It involves renewing old ICT systems, renewing implementation processes and digitising them. The dependence of ICT experts is an Achilles heel. There is still no clear improvement in the lead time and budget management of ICT projects. Previously, the Chamber itself came to a similar, painful conclusion through the Temporary Committee on ICT. What will happen to the recommendations of the General Court so that we can see next year that it is going to be a little better in the field of ICT and reduce the vulnerability there? The Court of Auditors' audit of safety and justice notes that there is a small link between the level of traffic fines and road safety. Can the government clarify the Court's assertion that fines are there both for road safety and for supplementing state finances? An increase in the chances of getting caught appears to be much more effective than an increase in the fines. Does the government recognize these statements? And how does it provide the opportunity to deal with such violations? It is very easy to leave everything to the cabinet, but many of the problems in the execution are partly due to ourselves, the House of Representatives. Take, for example, the regulations on taxes. Shortly before the introduction of changes, a great deal has been demanded for implementation. Look at the pgbs, too. Much has gone wrong, but the fact that the Court changes the definition of the target group one month before its introduction does not make implementation easier. The House of Representatives may also need to be more alert to the introduction of laws, so that implementation can be improved. 2014 was a year with two faces. While the air cleared up in the interior, the situation was getting more and more grim outside the borders. While previous years in this house we mainly talked about our prosperity and economy, 2014 made it painfully clear how fragile that prosperity, peace and security are in which we live.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u15	I am a bit surprised that the pgb came to the performance very soon. Mrs De Vries said something like: that is due to the Chamber. After all, it had changed the definition. Does Mrs De Vries really see this, or is there any responsibility for the Secretary of State, who has thrown all the warnings into the wind?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u16	I have indicated that much has gone wrong, including that last change in the definition of the target group by the House of Representatives. This has certainly not contributed to a good introduction, but that is certainly not the only cause of the problem. These problems also need to be quickly addressed and resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u17	It is very strange that Mrs De Vries places more responsibility on the Chamber for this change than on the Secretary of State. What does she think of the role of the Secretary of State and the way he acted? Has the Secretary of State listened to all the opinions that have been clearly stated: are not they going to rush into this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u18	There's been a lot of advice. The signals have never really been on red. There were recommendations to make improvements. We also think it is important for them to be arrested. It really did not go well, let that be very clear too, but I think we should have the willingness to look in the mirror, given how these changes have been made, because we have made a contribution to it ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u19	Today is a day of accountability. We saw what a mess it was in 2014 with the payments, post-taxes and all kinds of sub-budgets towards Europe. What does Mrs De Vries think of the quality of the responsibility of this cabinet for the Dutch contribution to Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u20	We are one of the few countries that make a national declaration on European funds. The VVD is also very much in favour of this. As far as the post-tax is concerned, we have made it very clear in the past that we do not like this system. We do not like it at all, and it needs to be adapted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u21	The problem is that the payments made by the Netherlands to Brussels are not included in that national declaration. That is also what the General Court of Auditors is saying. Does Mrs De Vries agree with me that this should at least be done in the future, that the cabinet should also account for the billions we transfer to Brussels every month, and that they should not just disappear?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u22	I do not believe that the inclusion of the payments in the national declaration is a solution to the post-taxation that there has been. You really need to adjust the system for that. As far as we are concerned, this must also be done, but the Court of Auditors also points out that it would not have been possible to avoid the post-taxation. I had stayed with the international grim climate. For example, there was the terrible disaster with the MH17 on barely more than three hours of flies from here. There is anarchy, terrorism and instability south of Europe and in the Middle East. The attacks have hit Europe in the heart. In recent decades, we had become accustomed to the Americans keeping us safe. We could invest in social security. Now that the interests of the US are shifting from Europe to Asia, we will have to stop our own pants more than ever. Now that we are faced with the fragility of our security, the basic condition for our prosperity and freedom, it is good that the cabinet has achieved a trend break in spending on Defence. But it is also clear that more will have to be done in the future. That can count on our support. We must therefore continue to invest in our security. The international situation is uncertain, but the economic recovery is becoming more and more apparent in its own country. Government policy has led to public finances being put in order. It is now important to keep course so that all the Dutch can benefit from the economic recovery. We need to get to work so we can get more jobs. As far as we are concerned, this should include a reduction in the burden. The mission is clear: we must do everything we can to keep our country safe and continue to work for economic recovery. So we must keep our course for those with whom things are getting better and for those to whom the fruits of recovery are still missing. That's our assignment, and that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u23	I call Mr Omtzigt of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u24	Mr. Chairman. I would ask you to leave me until I have the letter. There was something online at 3:15 p.m. We've been two hours. We're being asked to talk about accountability. On the website the government writes that there are mistakes, but the letter cannot be written. That can't be true. I'd like you to call.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u25	That's what they're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u26	I would ask you to leave me until the letter arrives at least ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u27	I note that your colleagues have no objection to this. I call Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u28	Mr. Chairman. Accountability day often focuses on financial figures and economic data. 2014 was also the year Mrs De Vries was right to close in which international world peace was threatened by IS and in which 298 people experienced a disaster in Ukraine. This shows that in the world peace and security are not guaranteed and not self-evident. I begin by thinking about how important it is that there are people who fight every day for our peace and security, who stand before it and risk their lives for it. We respect them all the time. That is also the theme of my contribution to today's debate on accountability: the appreciation of the people in the public sector who are doing the important work that is being done in the public sector. The PvdA Group is in favour of a society that combines well-being and prosperity. That requires government intervention. Leaving everything to market leads to misery. That's getting things out of hand. To speak with Joris Luyendijk, this leads to amorality, a society in which we do not want to live. The government can do beautiful things, and it also does so to this cabinet by letting anyone who wants to make some of their life through education and through a push in the back when someone needs to do so, and by letting the talents develop. It is not a matter of its own accord; it is a matter for the government. It fights things that are unjust. Last year we had a whole debate on the banking sector. Culture has far from become healthy there. Parliament has adopted the strictest legislation in Europe in order to limit it. Everything of value is defenseless. Nature and the environment are not protected by themselves. This requires public intervention, which requires a government that stands up for it. The PvdA believes in a balanced society. For that, we need a government. Accountability day is important to be able to talk about. In particular, I will focus on three themes. The first theme is the appreciation for the people who do it. That's what I started. The second issue is the democratisation of the public sector. The third theme is implementation, which is also the key point for the Court of Auditors. I start with the first theme: the appreciation for the people who do it, so teachers, nurses, police officers and military. These are all people who have suffered in recent years from the austerity measures for which the PvdA Group was also responsible. There's been a zero line for years, but we're done with that now. The economic recovery has started, growth is continuing, unemployment is falling and there is scope to give them the appreciation they deserve. In the last week, we have all been able to walk past protesting police officers. There's room to meet them now. I ask the cabinet to bring these collective bargaining to a speedy conclusion. However, it is not just about money. It's also about the appreciation in your profession. Can you do your job well as a teacher? As a nurse, aren't you just filling out time papers, but can you do your job well? Can you make patients better in your own judgment and ability? Is there room? I think that the Chamber broadly agrees that this should be done. You also hear it often: we have to get rid of the clockwork and management thinking. How is the cabinet going to realize this? Does the cabinet share this view and how will it then implement it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u29	I hear from the representative of the Labour Party very good words about the failure to conclude collective agreements for government servants. We know that the government officials have not had a collective agreement since 1 January 2011. That's an incredibly long time. They have been on the zero line for four years. Now Mr Nijboer says: as soon as possible. Does Mr Nijboer have a deadline for the cabinet in which it really has to act and in which Minister Blok has to conclude these collective agreements for once?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u30	That money is already available from January 1st of this year. Before that, it was already known that this money would become available, because our budgets are known. For next year, more than 1 billion extra is available and for 2017 more than 1.5 billion is available for people working in the public sector; collective agreements often have a longer term. It needs to be done as soon as possible. I am not going to call a deadline as "next month" here, but I am calling on the Cabinet to reach a new agreement as soon as possible, so that people feel it in their wallets, and not to allow it to last for many months.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u31	I fully agree with Mr Nijboer that there must be urgency and that there is money in the budget. These are hundreds of millions for 2015 and more than a billion for 2016. Money has even been made available for 2017. The Labour Party is also in the cabinet. It is part of that cabinet, which therefore does not deal with the conclusion of collective agreements now. Can Mr Nijboer speak with a little more force towards the cabinet and the PvdA ministers when it comes to seeing business done? These people, who have been waiting so long for a collective agreement, must have the collective agreement they deserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u32	Yes, what Mr Slob is asking me is exactly what I am doing. I urge the cabinet to make the people working in the public sector, such as nurses and police officers, feel that things are improving economically. As a majority of the House, we have made the money available for this purpose. I call on the Cabinet to come to an agreement. I would also like to ask the Prime Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u33	This is also the subject of discussion. Fortunately, money is available to raise wages in the public sector. At the same time, the wage demands of the trade unions are much higher than the money available. Does Mr Nijboer now think that we should meet the trade unions with more money anyway? Or should the unions do it with the money that is available?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u34	We have over 3 billion in total available for a number of years for the salaries of nurses, military officers, police officers and civil servants, who have not received anything since 2010; Mr Koolmees knows that very well. That's budget that's available. It seems to me that Mr Blok should first discuss this with the trade unions and, above all, come to an agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u35	I therefore understand that Mr Nijboer is saying the following. We have a budget available, which is that 3 billion for 2016 and 2017 and that is what the trade unions have to do with it. Is that Mr Nijboer's call?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u36	And 2015. We've had a zero line for years. There are also parties in this Chamber who have made a plea in recent months to continue this zero line in order to reduce the burden. We believe that this money should reach the people who deserve it. I come to the second issue, the democratisation of the public sector. My colleagues Martijn Van Dam and Jacques Monasch devoted an article on this in NRC Handelsblad some time ago. They called for more control over schools, for more control of patients over their care institutions, for more small-scale public sector mergers and for more participation by tenants. Mr Mohandis recently argued for more student participation at universities. The PvdA Group strongly supports this. It is public money so useful things must be done with it, but give the people involved, also people in a neighbourhood, influence to do meaningful things with it. What's the government's position on that? Is the government prepared to encourage this? My third point is the implementation of policies, and that is a broad issue. We have already discussed the problems with the implementation of the pgbs and with the Tax Administration. We have had intensive debates on this for years, I regret to say. It is noted that computers are sometimes used at 37 years of age. Those are from the time before I was born. I had to learn it on a 286. Anyone who sees that has to see that it cracks in their joints. ICT management does not operate in different areas of government. How does the government intend to find solutions to this? After all, everyone agrees that these problems need to be solved. What is the status of ICT maintenance? This also applies to more things that are in government hands, such as the railways, roads and things that we own. The Court recommends that the whole budgetary system should be turned towards municipalities and investment. I think that goes a long way and I would not go along with that either, but I do think it is important that there is sufficient investment in maintenance and in the management of equipment. Defense is another example. The Court of Auditors also makes a cry for help: there is not even enough equipment or equipment to carry out proper training missions from time to time. Of course you can't. I ask the government the pressing question of how it puts the management of assets and ICT systems in order and the maintenance of them. There are also windfalls in the implementation of policies in the care sector. The PvdA Group is pleased with this; it is better to have windfalls than setbacks, because they often lead to additional cuts. However, we have seen in recent years that these windfalls seem structural. The question is to what extent the estimates of the various parts of the budget are made well by the government and to what extent it is well understood. It does, of course, matter whether the money that the Chamber makes available for medicines, hospitals, general practitioners, nurses and everything that happens in the care ends up in the right place. The Court of Auditors also points this out. Is that insight enough? What measures does the government take to increase that understanding? This also affects the Court's budget law. Another aspect of implementation is investment. I drew a lot of attention to this last year. In my opinion, the PvdA has rightly made a big point of limited investment in the Netherlands. The PvdA has called on the cabinet to pursue the investments. SMEs were unable to get enough credit and still have problems with it. Fortunately, I see that new funds have been created and billions have been made available for SME investment, including by insurance companies. That is a good thing. On the other hand, pension funds are still reluctant to invest in the Netherlands. That's gonna have to be different. How does the government intend to do that? In the Court's view, my final point in the implementation series is better than that. This refers in particular to the policy investigations carried out by the ministries themselves. Mr Harbers has already strengthened Parliament's position, because we are now also discussing the mandate formulation. That is a good thing, but it must also be properly implemented. We seem to be caught up in two things: the investigations do not say so much and the parliament does not do so much with them. Actually, both are bad. I would like us to take it on our shoulders to make these tasks more serious and I would like to instruct the government to deal more seriously with these investigations so that we can really learn lessons and get more effective policies. In the end, a party like the Labour Party, which is still in favour of strong government interventions occasionally, is bound to deal effectively with every euro we spend on behalf of all people in the Netherlands. A society in which prosperity and well-being go hand in hand, in which justice and sustainability are important principles, in which everyone can develop their talents: that is the goal the PvdA has in mind for the Netherlands. This goal has been brought a little closer in the past year, although there are still many ambitions left. I come to my final words. They are about the Court of Auditors itself. For 201 years, the Court of Auditors has been doing its job. 200 years ago, she did so by Constitution for the King, so that the King had more control over expenditure and, above all, on revenue. In recent years, Parliament has been increasingly assisted in exercising budget law. Mrs Stuiveling was able to present the accounts here for the first time in the year 2000. Last week she did so again. That really made the Court of Auditors an institution. Mrs Stuiveling, with her drive and keenness to honour the House's budget law, is an institution within an institution. It also has an incentive for innovation in the provision of information to the Chamber. Before that, I reread her speech from 2000. Then it was about infographics, which have been known for a long time and are always in the pieces. Now it's about open data. Both are worthy of consideration and benefit from the control and functioning of government and public expenditure. I would like to thank this public-sector worker in particular today, because it is her last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u37	Mr Nijboer discussed, inter alia, the implementation problems. The Court of Auditors puts it quite explicitly. Does he not agree with me that a large number of these implementation problems are one-on-one based on political choices made here by a cabinet with the support of the Labour Party? I refer to the problems of the pgb, the decentralisations, the flex law of Minister Asscher, the absence of the promised 100,000 jobs for people with disabilities, the failure to meet the objectives of the energy agreement. Those are all problems in progress. Does he agree with me that they are simply one-on-one based on political choices made here, partly under the responsibility of his party?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u38	The latter, namely that the PvdA has taken responsibility for the political choices made over the past few decades, is certainly true. I also heard Mr Grashoff mention a few implementation problems that are still to come. The 100,000 jobs for people with disabilities would not have been realized last year. The cabinet must realize this in the coming years, and we will keep the cabinet sharp. Of course, Parliament also has a responsibility. Mrs De Vries pointed that out. The CDA is very hopeful about the surcharges, but it itself is the inventor of them. At the time, the PvdA was not a great supporter of that. We all have responsibilities in politics, of course, but we must also be cautious. In this way, the tax system has become very complicated. It cracks in its joints. The first opportunity to improve the tax system is the new tax system. That really has to be better and easier to implement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u39	I feel that Mr Nijboer's answer remains abstract. I'd like to know what lessons he's taking from cabinet policy. What repairs should be carried out to combat the negative effects in the implementation that are now being detected or which are likely to simply end up on our plate with a high degree of probability?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u40	For example, the cabinet is fully committed to solving the problems that have arisen around the pgbs. As far as the tax system is concerned, I would like to point out that it really needs to be simpler and that it cannot be so complex. It is completely stalled and we need to do it simpler, fairer and fairer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u41	I always hear Mr Nijboer speak very nice words, such as: we have to deal with market forces and so on. But when it comes to the matter, as was the case this morning, he is voting against a motion calling on the government to take the lead on usury policies. In fact, Mr Nijboer leaves everything to the market. It's up to the victims to take care of it themselves. Mr Nijboer mentioned the care, but he does not mention all those general practitioners who are protesting now. Two thirds of the general practitioners have signed the petition against market forces in healthcare. The PvdA is partly responsible for this. What does Mr Nijboer mean when he says that we must tackle market forces?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u42	I mean, we can't just let the market go. For example, in the financial sector, where a great deal has gone wrong and where we are responsible for the financial crisis, heavy demands on buffers, with demands on salaries, with the strictest bonus legislation in Europe and with legally-based demands on people's care obligations. So with all kinds of legal measures not to let the beast go its course but to tame it and make it serviceable to society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u43	That's just changing the rules. That's what we do here in the Chamber. I care about what happens when you put in a system that gives you market power, as is the case in healthcare. It can be seen that if only per operation is paid for, people will be sent to it and there will be profit-thinking. I thought the PvdA was against that at first, but now I do not even hear Mr Nijboer about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u44	Good care is an audience good for everyone. The Netherlands is one of the countries with the most collectively funded healthcare system in the world. I like that, because health is the most important thing. If you leave that to the market alone, as they do in America for example, things will go wrong. We have recently been there: the crookedness and the misery that comes from it were visible. I am therefore directly in front of the public-funded healthcare system. For example, the general practitioners are not employed here; they have their own practice. That works great in the Netherlands. That is what I stand for, as I say to Mr Merkies. He may ask me about this, but I am proud that we have such a good health system as we have today, although improvements are always possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u45	Mr. Chairman. I don't want to spoil the party today, but it's high time for a little bit of a sense of reality, so I say to the Prime Minister. For a little Dutch sobriety, for peasant understanding; back with both legs on the ground. We're looking back at 2014, and what's the truth about that? 2014 was a disaster year. A year of disaster for the retired person whose pension was cut. For the workers, who will soon be able to be fired even easier and faster. For the 700,000 unemployed looking for a job that is not there. For the tenants who saw their rents rise out. For the owners, who were crowded under. It was a disaster year for the 8,000 companies that had to close their doors. For the 30,000 layoffs in the care department. For the sick person, who can cough up more and more care costs. For the student who's gonna have to borrow for his studies. And for the 10,000 caregivers who have been waiting for their money so far. Yet the cabinet is trying to sell us 2014 as a good year. It may have been a good year for the finance minister, but not for Henk and Ingrid. The cabinet has no regard for its own citizens. The whole of the Netherlands was screwed on, but at the same time 570 million extra was released for emergency aid, almost 400 million for asylum seekers and more than 1 billion for additional payments to Brussels. So that was not cut back. This cabinet is not for the Netherlands but for others. The money flies out the door at the same time. 9.5 billion disappeared last year to Brussels, 4.3 billion disappeared to developing countries and 1.2 billion went to asylum seekers and foreigners. And then we will guarantee more than 150 billion European emergency funds and the IMF. Last year, the hollow juss in Brussels also showed his true face. In addition to eight supplementary budgets, the Netherlands received one after the other levy. First, 600 million was reserved in the Spring Note. After that, 1.1 billion was paid. Last month we received another 200 million for our choice and in June the next post-tax will follow. We're being picked in front of us. Our Prime Minister pays every check unseen and first. After all, he wants to be the best boy in the class; that's how we remember him. And now, in the annual report, we are once again faced with a setback of 133 million. But to justify it? Whoa, whoa, whoa, The General Court also calls for expenditure to be accounted for in a national declaration. Why isn't that happening? Why should we not know how these payments are made? The PVV wants an overview of all payments, post-taxes, supplementary budgets and cheques issued to Brussels last year, explaining how they were made. Can the Prime Minister promise this before we vote on these final laws? Can the Prime Minister explain at the same time why a Dutchman has to pay twice as much as an Englishman, a Frenchman or an Italian? Why does the Netherlands pay as much to the European Union as Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania, Hungary, Croatia, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Slovenia, Malta, Luxembourg and Greece together? The cabinet is trying to fool us by covering up the misery with beautiful weather messages. The government's spin doctors are working overtime. I can see the headlines of the last few months: unemployment is falling! But after 200,000 people have lost their jobs. Less bankruptcy, Elsevier screams. That's right, but after 30,000 companies hit the bottle earlier. House prices are rising again, calls BNR. Indeed, only after prices have fallen by more than 20%. Gas prices are dropping. Indeed, but it is because of a halving of the price of oil and not because of the sharp increases in excise duty in this cabinet. Even the sale of houses attracts again, headlines De Telegraaf. But that is because of the low interest rates and only after 1.5 million people have been flooded. And so on and so on. We also see that the cabinet misleads the case by playing with definitions. Thanks to a new definition of unemployment, which was suddenly introduced last year, people with a job of less than 12 hours no longer count as unemployed. That just saves 100,000 unemployed, on paper. In the real world, however, the number of unemployed grew last year. Thanks to a new calculation method and a revision of the CBS last year, the economy suddenly grew by 7% or 40 billion, on paper. That's how 5% of our public debt disappeared on paper. In the real world, government debt grew by 10 billion. The cabinet counts itself richly and calculates the positive news. That's how we're all fooled. I'm glad people aren't crazy. They also see that wages barely rise, that they have to pay more and more for their own care, that the rents rise out of the pan, that everything becomes more expensive and that their pension is not sure anymore. At the same time, they see that the Netherlands is being flooded by asylum seekers, probably 40 000 this year, and is having to hand over more and more money and power to Brussels. However, it gets much worse. The legality of public expenditure may be 99.5%, but what about efficiency? The General Court concludes that there is little insight into this. Let me give you a few examples. The green dream of this cabinet is a nightmare for many. In the last five years, the Court of Auditors has charged us 6.4 billion to stimulate electric driving, including a stick horse. It remains to be seen whether this has generated an environmental gain of 6.4 billion for electric driving. The windmills, according to research, cost society more than they produce: 5 billion. In order to finance these windmills, every family will pay €250 extra on its energy bill. Every year, 6 billion is spent on subsidies without being justified and without knowing whether they are effective. The Court of Auditors charged that out of 18 billion in tax subsidies, two thirds of them are not known whether they are effective. A third does not even evaluate it; 5.3 billion in grants is given away without evaluating them. ICT projects, according to the parliamentary committee, are wasted 1 to 5 billion a year. For the high-speed line, 11 billion is pumped away. And I'm not even talking about the premium fraud, like the Bulgarians, which made 117 million disappear. Footie! Too many billions disappear in nonsensical projects such as hsl, greening and subsidies. This waste must be made transparent and immediately stopped as far as we are concerned. In 2014, the burden of citizens continued to rise. I didn't expect anything else. The rents went up, the own risk went up, the soft drink was even taxed, the waste tax was removed and even the tap water had to be double taxed. The general tax rebate also had to be levelled if necessary, but they forgot to collect it in 2014. Eventually, the collective burden increased further from 37.2% to 37.9% and 9 billion more in taxes was raised in 2014. For the PVV it is clear: stop pumping billions into the bottomless wells of Brussels and Africa. Stop wasting taxpayers' money on subsidies and megalomaniac projects that don't yield anything and give this money back to the citizens of this country. That's what needs to be done. Nothing more and nothing less.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u46	And all this under the heading "don't want to ruin the party." In the meantime, the letter requested by Mr Omtzigt has been received and distributed to Members of Parliament. This is for the Acts. I now give the floor to Mr Koolmees on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u47	Mr. Chairman. It is in many ways a very responsible debate today, not least because, after 31 years, President Stuijling of the General Court of Auditors made her final assessment of the documents. A precise and precise opinion of the Court of Auditors is very important for a reliable government that handles taxpayers' money wisely and efficiently. On behalf of D66 I would like to thank Mrs Stuiveling through Mr Vendrik, who is present here, for her good work. As you will notice in my further contribution, her work has certainly not gone unnoticed with us. It is also, for another reason, a very responsible debate. For the first time since 2006, a missionary cabinet is accountable for a second year of government. That says everything about political stability in the Netherlands. So it is quite an achievement, especially for a very stable majority cabinet, as the Prime Minister called it at the start. With two years to go and two more years to go, the cabinet is halfway through. A good time to look back but also to look forward. Halfway through the cabinet period half of the coalition agreement was carried out but the other half ended up in the trash can. To begin with, the good news is that the mortgage interest rate deduction is limited and mislocation has been addressed. The right of dismissal has been modernised and the duration of WW is reduced. The AOW age is being increased while longer working hours are becoming increasingly easier. And through the housing agreement, the autumn agreement and other agreements, D66 has been able to improve and support the cabinet plans. Less burdens, more jobs and better education have been created. The policy is starting to bear fruit; there are more and more points of light. Home prices are rising, consumer confidence is improving and the budget deficit is falling. At the same time, unemployment remains high and our prosperity is not yet at pre-crisis level. There is no reason to cheer yet, but fortunately things are getting a little better. But while much has been achieved, whole parts of the coalition agreement have also been deleted. And sometimes it's a good thing. Fortunately, the cut in legal aid has been blocked by the First Chamber. The increase in the Registry fees also raises objections. But how does the Cabinet deal with Security and Justice? I quote the Court of Auditors: 'Policy, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary show signs of overload through the accumulation of priorities'. When does the government also come to the conclusion that it is not just about hard, harder, hardest, but that regulation of weed cultivation, police and justice, for example, reduces the burden and increases security? I would like to hear the Prime Minister's response to this. I am also pleased that the austerity on the AIVD has been reversed, although the gejojo with the budget has left deep traces. 171 highly qualified people out in exchange for 183 inexperienced newcomers. According to the Court of Auditors, loss of knowledge whose consequences are felt for years to come. The boss of the AIVD agreed with the Court of Auditors in Buitenhof last Sunday, but according to Minister Plasterk security was not at stake. A third of the AIVD budget was reduced and that would not have affected security. It's all secret and uncontrollable, but I think it's quite a pronunciation. How does the Prime Minister look back on this ill-thought-out austerity, especially with the Court of Auditors' report in mind? I'd like to get a reaction to this. I think Mr Dijkgraaf wants to ask a question about the limit. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u48	Is that so, Mr Dijkgraaf?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u49	No, Mr President, Mr Koolmees is not so good at predicting what question is to come. Security, justice and the AIVD are excellent points of attention. Mr Koolmees says that he learns from the General Court of Auditors, and that is quite right; it is a fine report. Defence also has a very prominent role in this. I expected warm words from D66 about Defense, too, but maybe they'll come.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u50	Yeah, they're coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u51	Then I'll just wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u52	There are also parts of the coalition agreement that D66 would have preferred to have carried out. I am thinking, for example, of the public administration. The inability of the Minister of the Interior to clean up the administrative map of the Netherlands increases the mess of partnerships. This is how regional bureaucracy comes instead of local democracy, and that can never be the intention. Since last Friday, I understand why Minister Plasterk did not have time for the administrative reforms, because he has, of course, been busy with the burqa ban in recent years, a ban which, in the words of the Minister himself, 'will hardly lead to fines'. Well, you have priorities and super priorities. How is the Prime Minister, now that this pressing problem has been resolved, going to help the Home Secretary to do something about the administrative burden? I'd like to get a reaction to this. Today a new phase begins for the cabinet, not only because the cabinet is over half the cabinet period and the government agreement can go to the archives, but also because today 570 Provincial States members have voted for the First Chamber. You don't have to have a glass ball to see what that means for the particularly stable majority. The political landscape in the States General is changing. The numerical relationships between the parties will change and so will the way in which the cabinet operates. However, D66's attitude does not change: it remains critical where it needs to be and constructively where it can be. The Prime Minister must now take the lead and look for new majorities, for example for the reform of the tax system. This reform is highly needed to reduce taxes on labour, to green the tax system and to simplify the surcharge circus. The Court of Auditors rightly points out the feasibility of the policy. The tax authorities are at the limits of their ability. That is not an excuse for the cabinet to wait longer with the reform, but rather an incentive to start earlier. My clock isn't running, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u53	That's not a problem; go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u54	Politicians who do not dare to reform because of fear of vested interests, for the electorate or for each other have too often made decisions late; actually too late. Then the execution has to go through an angled, Haguen turn to avoid losing any more time. Take the mortgage interest rate deduction, or the increase in the AOW age. The two previous Cabinets could have taken a decision on this in 2006 and could have started implementation gradually in 2009. For four years now, we have been studying the reform of the tax system. After the Dijkgraaf motion from 2011, the Van Dijkhuizen Committee published its opinion on 18 June 2013. That was almost two years ago. So the coalition has been in consultation for two years and perhaps VVD and PvdA will agree together, but how is the cabinet going to ensure that there is a majority in the whole of the States-General for a viable reform? According to Deputy Prime Minister Asscher, the cabinet will make proposals for the summer, but Minister Dijsselbloem will put the deadline on Prinsjesdag. What is it now? When can we expect the proposals? I would like a clear answer from the Prime Minister. D66 takes the Court's concerns about implementation extremely seriously. For example, the consequences of hasty execution are felt every day by people with a personalized budget. The Chamber has often asked whether the introduction was feasible as of 1 January 2015. Over and over again, Secretary of State Van Rijn has said that this can be done. He promised. If the Chamber wants a timetable that is not feasible, is it not the responsibility of the Cabinet to report it? Shouldn't more ministers take an example from Secretary of State Wiebes? One of his very first actions was to replace the unexecutable household allowance with a workable alternative. So it's possible. It may not be popular, certainly not in the Chamber, but it is realistic. State Secretary Wiebes is also going to send the execution test to the Chamber on all his proposals. I ask the Prime Minister: are all ministers always going to do that? Shouldn't the cabinet itself take more account of the consequences of policy? The cabinet has a new balancing framework for new policies, a kind of impact assessment, in good Dutch. This is about a clear problem analysis, about considering alternatives, about the consequences for people, for businesses and for implementation But does the Cabinet apply this framework and who is paying attention to it in the Trêveszaal? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. On the fight against fraud, a directive was added to the balancing framework last year, but is it being used? The Court of Auditors has a hard head in that. So I ask the Cabinet: who is testing new policies for fraud sensitivity? In the implementation of laws, D66 attaches a clear division of responsibility. Who's contactable? The cabinet regularly pulls up a fog curtain. That is a well-known strategy: divide the responsibilities, then no one is really responsible. A well-known strategy, but also a bad one. We see this, for example, in the pgb-case, in which the Secretary of State of VWS and SZW point to each other. But we also see the vagueness of responsibilities in the decentralisations. For who can appeal to the Chamber for the progress of decentralisation? Is that the Minister of Social Affairs or his colleague from Health? Because they have defended the laws here. Or should we go to the Home Secretary? For he sees coordinating the decentralisations as his most important task, but he is invisible throughout the process. For example, if we want more open data on decentralisation and more common language, as recommended by the Court of Auditors, then who should we be with? I would also like a response from the Prime Minister. Ministers are also at each other's feet in the foreign corner. "I want to extend the mission against ISIS in Iraq," reported the Secretary of Defense last week, "and I also want to go to Syria." I ask the Prime Minister: to engage, extend, extend or stop missions is primarily a responsibility of the Foreign Minister, isn't it? The Secretary of Defense is about the execution. Is that right? I'd like a response. Or did we see the Secretary of Defense here who, in the words of the Court of Auditors, wants too much at the same time? In recent years the knife has been put in Defense: in 2012 by VVD and CDA 1 billion and in 2012 by VVD and PvdA another 350 million. According to the papers, they're gonna add money to the DOD next year. That is an implementation of the Van der Staaij motion. But over the past two years, Defence has postponed investment in equipment for EUR 1.3 billion. There was money, but the knowledge and the organization were lacking to spend it meaningfully. Shouldn't that be settled first? The Court also notes that there are so many problems in the defence sector that not everything can be solved at the same time. From toxic paint to failing ICT, from non-collective personnel to frigates held by strings. "A dosed approach with a high priority" is the Court's opinion. How is this cabinet going to put things in order with the military? Extra money for the Defense Department isn't at the expense of education, is it? Because the EUR 500 million in extra education money from the autumn agreement is very much needed. The number of schools suffering losses, i.e. in the red figures, has fallen from 57% to 13% in two years. Schools had to use the extra money from the autumn chord to close holes. Costs for maintenance, teaching materials and staff increase every year. And schools haven't been compensated for that for years. With the autumn agreement, this trend has been reversed, but how does the cabinet intend not only to close gaps, but also to allow for quality improvement, for smaller classes and for better teachers - even better teachers? Defence, AIVD, police, Tax Administration, SVB, many government organizations are under pressure, and yet only half a billion of the 4.1 billion that the Rutte I and II Cabinets wanted to cut the government's budget has been achieved. At the same time, expenditure on external consultants increased by 230 million over two years, an increase of 26%. Can the Prime Minister, who is so attached to a smaller government, explain this tension? Where perhaps a little more people would have been needed was at the Department of Social Affairs. Because that's where it took too long for job plans to be assessed. In crisis plans, you'd expect more urgency, but that's not the only thing. The Court of Auditors has examined one sector plan in more depth. That is one of the largest, namely for construction and infra. Of the 178 million available, 56 million is not used, due to the lack of an expected build-up. I had to read this three times, because I honestly didn't believe it. Dozens of millions that Minister Asscher wanted to free up in order to fight the crisis remain on the shelf, because it is still a crisis. Is that really true? Isn't that the failure of the job plans and a Minister of Employment unworthy? That's not the only thing. The Minister for Social Affairs has not used the childcare budget for three years in a row. Since 2012, almost 1 billion has not been spent. According to the Central Planning Bureau, people react stronger than expected to the cuts. So there could have been more people at work. Wasn't the austerity knife too blunt here? I'd like a response. I'm rounding up. Today, the cabinet is responsible for the financial year 2014, a budget for which D66 has taken co-responsibility through the autumn agreement. In dealing with this budget, just before the autumn agreement, my group chairman outlined D66's position as follows: constructively where it can be done and critically where it should be done. With this attitude, we have worked well with the cabinet over the last two years and have achieved a great deal. Today a new phase begins, not so much for D66, but for the cabinet. We remain critically constructive, not only on what the cabinet does, but above all on what the cabinet does not do. Our attitude does not change, but after today's vote for the First Chamber, the proportions have changed fundamentally. It is now up to the Cabinet to show how this is handled. Two years is still a long time. Don't mess up those two years. Don't sit on your hands. Don't be paralyzed by internal divisions, otherwise you'd better stop. Look for new majorities, come up with new plans and D66 will be happy to think along.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u55	Mr. Chairman. I'll get back to you on the letter we just received. We had asked for information on three issues for this debate. It was about the 133 million to Europe, about the oldtimers, two and a half weeks ago, and about the hybrid cars. None of those three received any documents. Then it is not very pleasant to have a debate about it after all. After all, this is the debate on responsibility, one of the highlights of the parliamentary year. The government is accountable for its policies. In fact, it should be the time to overload the rulers with flowers or send them home. The practice is, however, that the Chamber is reluctant to deal with this. Maybe that's a good thing. 2014 was a special year. A lot of legislation has been dealt with by the Chamber. The decentralisations were put in the scaffolding and took place on 1 January of this year. The economy grew again. In 2013, there was a contraction of 0.8%, in 2014 there was a growth of 0.8%. Or was it 0.9%? We find both figures in the annual financial report. Probably a rounding difference, but 0.1% is a sloppy 600 million. Perhaps the small error could have been avoided by paying some extra attention to the text. But unfortunately, in the rush of execution it went wrong. That is exactly what the General Court found in its findings on the annual report. We need to focus much more on the implementation of the policy. Too often in political wish thinking is more important than the sober question of whether the government services can handle the work. There are cuts without a vision, without an eye for implementation and without an eye for the practical consequences for people. The CDA also feels responsible for cuts and reforms, but in a responsible way. That is why it is all the more obvious that the government has deliberately launched a number of warnings in this area. Exactly a year ago, in the 2013 Accountability debate, we warned against the speed with which decentralisation was driven by parliament. We then advocated, in accordance with the Dijsselbloem Committee, that an additional assessment and a transition authority should be created, as a kind of stick behind the door. Think before you start, but oh no: steam and boiling water to allow all decentralisation to begin on 1 January! Partly for that reason, the CDA voted against the Wmo for example. The rest is history and the pgb problems are known. This could perhaps have been avoided, because the Court of Auditors warned against it. That is why I ask the Prime Minister why he did not listen at the time. How does he assess the haste with which the decentralisations had to pass through parliament? Last year, during the Libelle Days, the Prime Minister said that he was annoyed by the nonsense that the media and the political parties were proclaiming about the forthcoming healthcare reforms. Does the Prime Minister still feel bad about that? Is he also concerned about the opinion of the General Court? That General Court announced on a day of accountability that it would launch an investigation into the SVB in response to the pgb mess. The Secretary of State responsible would have solved everything by 15 May, but since then it has been mainly silent, covered by government parties who prefer to postpone the debate on this issue. The investigation announced by the General Court seems to indicate that it is also of the opinion that not all the problems have been solved, otherwise it would not start an investigation. The question with responsibility is: when did the Cabinet and the Prime Minister hear that there were problems? Have these problems been discussed before the introduction, in other words last autumn? At that time, there were already severe warnings to the Secretary of State. I would like a clear answer to that. That answer is important. We can set up all kinds of committees and warning mechanisms here, think of Mr Elias' report, but if we do not know whether there has been a warning or not, why should we introduce these mechanisms? I'm here to talk about the AIVD. The Court of Auditors' report is downright devastating. All knowledge has been cut off and it takes years to rebuild it. The Prime Minister has ignored all recommendations. There is absolutely no insight into the importance of a good AIVD, not then and not now. In this respect, I agree with the SP, D66 and PVV. All four parties have warned in advance. If you hear a colourful coalition with totally different opinions on the AIVD, its right to exist and what it may do, warn that in these difficult times with increasing threats cannot be cut, why is that government agreement maintained? Why didn't that go back way too late? In what period can we expect a plan to minimise the damage caused? What responsibility does the Prime Minister take in this? Then there's the allowance and the maid's help. Maybe worse than a swaggering policy is illegal policy. I'm referring to the HHT, the household aid allowance. In doing so, the VWS Ministry has simply broken a law, namely the Financial Relationship Act, by transferring the amount directly to the municipalities. That was also more than the House of Representatives had approved. A finance minister should have sleepless nights of it. Has there been any action and is it being corrected now? Is the additional amount for domestic aid added to the Municipal Fund? That's what the law says. In the field of defence, I agree with what Mr Koolmees said before me. I come to the question of how revenue and expenditure relate to the budgets adopted by the States-General. I shall start with excise duties on diesel and LPG. It is now very clear: the increase in excise duty on diesel and LPG has brought in 224 million less than budgeted. This shows that the increase in excise duty has not paid off. Is the Minister prepared to reduce excise duties as soon as possible? It would do good for public finances, it would do good for the border region and it would testify to the honesty of the cabinet. The C5 wanted a temporary reduction in the rate in box 2, because that would yield a billion. The government now claims that that amount has been made exactly and precisely. That's remarkable, because most of the DGA's returns have only been in for a few weeks. And we know the automation of the IRS. By the way, many dga's don't report until just before 1 September 2014. Then we'll know if they took advantage of that opportunity. Any revenue entered on this file is a gamble. I would like to hear a response from the Prime Minister. I would also like to make a comment on the tax on wages. There is a setback of 300 million. With a attracting economy, you would expect a windfall in that respect. What happened? I'm skipping the section on electric and hybrid cars because we haven't had any answers to the parliamentary questions. However, I note that for the second year in a row, the Court of Auditors criticized the fact that you could get more than €30,000 from a Mitsubishi Outlander and even €80,000 from a Tesla if you were to lease those five years. In particular, however, the hybrids run 70% on petrol. The Court therefore writes that the environmental benefit is virtually nil. But all these environmental benefits have cost more than 5 billion. My group wants to change and is consistent in that. When can we finally expect the Car Letter, which would put an end to the subsidy madness? We are happy to receive it before 1 June, Prime Minister, because that letter can then simply be treated properly. These are just a few examples that show how stubborn the world of taxation is. That brings me to the next point, namely the tax review. The Court warns against excessive expectations of a major review in the short term. Even the careful turning of existing buttons could be too much for the Tax Administration. How does the Minister point this? What's his reaction to this? What consequence does the Prime Minister draw from this? At the same time as presenting the Court's report, a very ambitious plan was launched by Secretary of State Wiebes to address the problems in the Tax Administration. The necessary resources, at least EUR 1.1 billion, are not yet covered by a budget. A reform is therefore being launched without structural resources. The General Court already warns that the legacy problems are a serious imperfection, the only serious flaw in the Empire. Will the government support Secretary of State Wiebes' plan 100%, or will it remain in the air for months to come? In that plan, Oliver Wyman wrote a report on "Over the next five years, you will not be able to implement a tax reform." Does the Prime Minister share that view, or is there still a possibility of a tax reform? I would have liked to ask the Minister of Finance how he assesses that his department scores most of the insufficient this year for all departments. That is a bit annoying, because the Minister of Finance must address the other departments. We are also taking responsibility for Europe. How did we spend the subsidies obtained? It is clear that the Netherlands, like Sweden and Denmark, are making such a declaration, but not other countries. The national declaration of the Netherlands already shows that significant margins of error were achieved for some funds. Not that the subsidies would have been wrongly paid, but they are not well justified. The European Fisheries Fund has no less than 10.4% irregularities, whereas the norm is 2%. In the long term, this could lead to the expiry of grants, which could amount to more than 5 million for the sector. That's not good, and it's not the first time. Is the government really gonna do this? If it is not always good in the Netherlands to justify EU subsidies, what about in other countries, which do not make a national statement? The CDA once again asks the Prime Minister to give priority to this next year, during the presidency of the Netherlands. The CDA calls for the accountability of European funds to be given priority during that presidency. It is crazy that the European Court of Auditors has not approved European accountability for 20 years. This undermines the support for the European project. The CDA therefore wants to place a high priority on this. Does the Cabinet agree with that? Accountability of European funds is possible not only in terms of income but also in terms of expenditure. My colleague from the PVV has already spoken about this. Denmark does. Is the Netherlands prepared to do the same? After all, we have had a levy of 1.1 billion. We had an additional contribution of 400 million before that. We still don't have any public record. Let me now read out the explanation of the 133 million. "In 2014, a number of changes were incorporated in the estimate of the Dutch contribution to the European Union. This concerns in particular the delay in the ratification of the own resources decision and a post-taxation from October 2014. These changes have been incorporated in the first and second supplementary budgets respectively." I want to know whether this 133 million was spent on that delayed own resources decision. At the end of December it was written to the Chamber that 55 million had been booked for this purpose. Then where did the other 78 million go? Is this about another post-tax? Is this about another post? It's been thought for hours, but one still can't produce it. I really expect a clear answer, because this is not the way in which the Chamber wishes to be informed. The government knew more about the post-tax. It is a coincidence that the General Court notes exactly the same thing. Is the government prepared to make the correspondence with the European Commission public, or should we simply swallow the total of over 1.6 billion additional EU payments without being able to control the government? We have also voted against the previous post-tax system and are not in line with our task. When can we see these ultra-secret messages between the Netherlands and Brussels about money? I make this point with great emphasis because we run significant risks through the euro, through the Banking Union, through the ESM and through the EFSF through Brussels, Luxembourg and Frankfurt. We have given guarantees and we must be able to exercise control. We can hardly do that because of the legal forms. The EFSF is a company operating among SMEs in Luxembourg. The Court of Auditors has already warned against this. Nor can we check because of the confidentiality. Is the government prepared to come up with a proposal to identify the risks and increase the control of these risks by better informing us? The risks have been reduced. Fortunately, the traces left behind by the credit crisis on the rich budget are getting smaller. That's a good thing. However, this does not mean that there are no more risks. For example, there's the budget cut on the state service. EUR 4.1 billion has been committed, but only 0.4 billion has been achieved. Unlike care and social security, it is not possible to cut into their own flesh. Take VWS. This year we have exceeded the core department by 50% additional staff and 50% additional equipment. What exactly happened there? Apparently, the departments are starting to dance, except for the Foreign Office. The General Court notes that programme expenditure is transferred year by year to equipment expenditure. That's not how the CDA sees the government. It is precisely the execution that needs to be given more focus in all execution services, such as NVWA and SVB. We need less plans from The Hague, because we need to go to a slimmer government, but we should not get too many lines in terms of implementation. How are we going to shape this concretely? Is the Prime Minister prepared to interpret the law in such a way that all ministries are accountable for the Zbo's. Finally, 2014 was a special year; my colleagues have already referred to it. I have put the emphasis in my contribution on the financial details. However, we will not remember 2014 for that reason. That will be because of the attack, I repeat: attack on the MH17 and the way in which it is being investigated. There are investigations into the state of affairs, the guilt and a piece of government action. First of all, debt and debt must be established. This part of the 2014 Task Responsibility remains open. Many have worked hard on this and will continue to do so. We owe it to the victims and the next of kin.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u56	Before I give the floor to Mr Slob, I shall suspend the sitting for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u57	Madam President. The Responsible Debate is held today on the day of the First Parliamentary Elections. That will have been considered. We were able to take on the new composition of the First Chamber this afternoon. In our view, this result, in which the coalition parties have been severely weakened, can only mean one thing: the cabinet will have to look modestly for a broader basis for its policy. It is therefore important for the Christian Union, which has emerged stronger from these elections, to know what attitude the Prime Minister and his team want to gain this support. After all, the urgency has not diminished with the state of the world. Things are under great pressure both at home and internationally. I refer to the high unemployment rate, the energy crisis, which has been highlighted by Groningen, the situation of Greece, the refugee issue, the terror of ISIS. Those things call for thoughtful leadership. Although things are improving economically, the cabinet cannot sit on its hands. The big problems cannot be dealt with by the cabinet alone. Does the Prime Minister remember the motto of his cabinet in this respect? That might have slipped a little bit. Then I'd like to refresh his memory. That motto, which was carefully chosen at the time, was "breaking bridges." I would ask the Prime Minister to answer to this debate on responsibility about the way in which this cabinet has given substance to this motto and intends to give it. I ask this because I have the impression that building bridges in this cabinet has often been limited to building bridges in The Hague, especially between the government parties themselves. The question is where to find the cabinet bridge between The Hague and society. That's how the cabinet once started about the participatory society. After long questions we were given a lean further support. In the meantime, we don't hear about it anymore. What is the Cabinet still doing to facilitate citizens to take up their role in the participatory society? Where is the bridge between city and rural area? The cabinet has shown a blind spot for the region. For example, the Groningers still have no clarity about gas extraction and unemployment in the region, as in Twente and the Emmen region, is still alarmingly high. Where's the bridge between rich and poor? The number of customers at the food bank is still increasing and the capacity inequality in the Netherlands is increasing. The cabinet is now coming up with plans to eliminate the BPM in the long term, but where is the tax review that will enable us to take steps to reduce the gap between rich and poor? Where is the bridge between young and old and between high and low educated? On the one hand, we adopt the Work and Security Act, which is often intended to give young flex workers more security, but on the other hand, it appears that people are also being dismissed in the Empire in advance of the date of entry into force of the law. The Court has called the bell on this and has been corrected in places, but how can the government demand something from someone else if it does not set a good example itself? The cabinet wanted to quote from the documents of the cabinet at the start of the cabinet "strengthen the interconnectedness, optimism and strength of the Netherlands." We know the Prime Minister as someone who's always optimistic. However, if the cabinet wants to strengthen interconnectivity, it requires an attitude in which the cabinet is much more aware than it is now of what is happening in the country and in society, an attitude that radiates sense of reality and urgency, an attitude of real bridge builders. This leads me to ask the Prime Minister, in this debate on responsibility, on the basis of a number of examples of the cabinet's attitude to issues that have been played in 2014 and are still going through in 2015. The first example I quote has already been mentioned by Mr Nijboer. That is a collective agreement for teachers, for police officers, for the military and for the rest of the government staff. For four years, also in 2014, our government officials were standing on the zero line, which is about 120,000 people. That was inevitable in that situation. However, we have agreed with each other that the Christian Union was involved that 2015 is the year to let go of the zero line. We have earmarked money for this in the budgets, even on a multiannual basis. It concerns hundreds of millions for 2015, more than one billion for 2016 and nearly 2 billion for 2017. It is a little embarrassing that no proper collective agreement has been concluded by the end of May. What do you mean, building bridges to these rabid civil servants in recent years? Is the cabinet prepared to put an end to this shameful situation quickly? A second example concerns the problem of gas extraction in Groningen. Until recently, everything except the cabinet moved. It took a solid report from the Security Research Council to get the cabinet moving, but still lacks a final decision for the entire calendar year 2015. In the first four months of this year, 11.5 cubs have already been produced. The NAM says we're on schedule. My group finds this incomprehensible. The Groningers are left in uncertainty and the screaming about the damages continues. The remorse of the Minister for Economic Affairs is meaningless if there are no consequences. What bridges does the cabinet actually make towards the north? When is the cabinet going to give the Groningen the long-earned clarity, not only for this year, but also for a further phasing-out of extraction after this year? And where is the renewable energy transition to make this phase-out possible? I come to a third example, which has also been discussed a great deal in Parliament, both in this Chamber and in the committees: the pgb. It is rather embarrassing that after five debates on the pgbs the problem has still not been resolved. The Secretary of State of VWS promises an increased commitment over and over again, but in the meantime it remains a great drama, whose budget holders and caregivers are the victims. The Court of Auditors is talking about an 'incompleteity', but the 5% the Secretary of State is talking about is actually a bundling of thousands of tragedies. And it's not over yet; the problems are piling up. What does the Prime Minister think of the chaos that has arisen? Is it true that last week he rightly called apologizing to the many affected "gratuit"? Does he think that he can build confidence in people who are so badly affected by failing government policies with these kinds of comments? VWS refers to "a clot in the system" and states that the data transfer was largely successful. The General Court makes it clear that the transfer of data is not well prepared. What conclusion does the Prime Minister draw? My fourth example is the UN Disability Convention. In recent years, my group has repeatedly called for the ratification of this treaty, which should improve the position of people with disabilities. During the debate on the declaration of government, I tabled a motion, which was adopted by Parliament, which states that it should be implemented in 2013. We are now living in 2015. The cabinet has already prepared legislation. A written exchange is already taking place on this subject. However, we would also have an implementation plan before the summer, which would set out exactly how we are going to take this further. We're still waiting on it. If this plan is not implemented, ratification will be continued. That would not even be possible in this parliamentary year. That is unacceptable to my group. I would therefore like to hear from the Prime Minister tonight that we can receive the plan in the Chamber within a week or two. I come to the fifth example. Internationally, too, there is an increasing gap between rich and poor. The threats are greater than ever, with ISIS on the southern border of Europe and the conflict between Ukraine and Russia in the east. Since World War II, more people have been on the run than ever. It's 51 million people; it's an incredible amount. All this also leads to more migratory flows to Europe. We will discuss this further in the Chamber this week. The Christian Union has always advocated, I think even as the only party, the maintenance of both the defence budget and the development cooperation budget, in order to fulfil our constitutional obligation under Article 90: promoting peace and security and protecting human rights. We must not neglect this important bridge function between Defence and Development Cooperation. That is why, in this debate too, the Christian Union is calling for a humane reception of asylum seekers, in the region but also in the Netherlands, and for a reversal of the cuts in development cooperation and defence. The 50 million that Minister Ploumen calls today is in no way proportional to the total reduction of 2 billion in development cooperation. It is also a cigar from its own box, because the existing development cooperation money is now being used elsewhere. What substantial additional contribution will this cabinet make to reduce the gap between rich and poor worldwide? The cabinet has managed to guide important legislation through the Chamber and to start putting public finances in order. However, there is still much to be done in the implementation of cabinet policy, where it affects people. The Court of Auditors is painfully pointing the finger at this. Following the jubilee message that the Minister of Finance delivered last Wednesday, the General Court followed a message that was not a lie. There is still a lot going wrong in the execution. This is the case with the Tax Administration and the Social Insurance Bank, but also with the decentralisation of policies to local authorities. The cabinet can and must make much more work of this. It should also work on building bridges to society. We are looking forward to the Prime Minister's first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u58	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the General Court of Auditors. The valuable work done time and again by the Court of Auditors enables the Court to carry out its audit function properly. It is a great privilege that we live in a democracy in which this control is firmly anchored. An extra word of thanks goes to outgoing President Saskia Stuiveling right now. We admire the way in which it has led the Court of Auditors with great enthusiasm over the last few years. In its response to the accounts, the cabinet mentioned the fact that so many plans have been put into effect as a major achievement. However, the Court of Auditors is right to point out that there is also such a thing as careful implementation. The urgency and haste of this cabinet has done it all but well. That's not a big deal. We see it in many areas, to my disappointment also in areas that might give the cabinet a little social face or a green edge. I'm pointing out the problems with the pgb. They have already been mentioned by several speakers. I also refer to the decentralisations, the issue of the Asscher Flex Act, which is not working, the absence of the promised 100,000 jobs for people with disabilities, the failure to meet the already low objective of the energy agreement and the bonus law of Dijsselbloem, which is simply being bypassed. Over the past two and a half years, the cabinet seems to have been more concerned with cutting-edge legislation by capturing the Chambers at a rapid rate than it has realised what that means for people, what the social impact is and what the real effect is in the implementation. It could happen to you, but that's not the case either. Many problems were predicted in advance from various angles: by the Court of Auditors in last year's report, by municipalities, by banks that announced simply increasing their wages if there were a bonus bill and by the trade union and employers' organisations, both of which announced that the Work and Security Act would lead to more rapid dismissal for people in temporary employment than that it would actually improve their position. GroenLinks, too, has often warned that the pace of decentralisation was irresponsible and that the energy agreement would fail. We voted against the chain clause in the Flex Act because it was also clear to us that it would not improve the position of flex workers, but would deteriorate. So these problems are blameworthy to the cabinet. If you deliberately and knowingly make warnings, you are all the more responsible for these kinds of effects. The fact that different rulers are in trouble here in the Chamber is often related to this. I am very curious how the Prime Minister reflects the criticism of the Court of Auditors. What lessons does he draw from this, both in terms of repairs to the policies pursued so far and in terms of new policies for the coming years? Does the Prime Minister have any plan to improve the implementation of cabinet policy? Is the flex law being amended, for example by making flex work more expensive than permanent work, creating a real incentive towards more permanent jobs? Before I look forward to the second half of the reigning period, I have one final point on accountability. Thanks to GroenLinks, an additional 100 million was allocated to childcare last year. Nevertheless, we note an under-utilisation of 300 million. So that 100 million, and more than that, wasn't spent on what that money was meant for. GroenLinks wants this money to remain available for childcare. The under-utilisation shows that there is therefore scope for broadening the scheme. I shall table a motion on this point. For the coming years of this cabinet, GroenLinks has set his hopes for a good discussion on the revision of the tax system. Taxation is the key instrument for redesigning a society. We were therefore enthusiastic about the intention of the Secretary of State for Finance to come up with a real tax reform. That was an opportunity to change the Netherlands. In the meantime, Secretary of State Wiebes no longer speaks of a reform of the system. He carefully uses the words "large maintenance." What exactly is this about? Does the cabinet still have the same ambition with regard to the reform of the system or has the level of ambition been lowered? We are a little concerned that the cabinet is not really prepared to change the system in real terms, but that it wants to look at how windfalls can be turned into presents, perhaps to spawn voters. But that's not what we should be talking about. Now society is promised a tax reduction, but no matter how nice it may be for many, it is about reforming our system. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, this is a shift of charges rather than a reduction of charges. Does the cabinet present this shift of burdens and does it indicate the electorate where taxes will go up? GroenLinks would like an overall picture to be presented to the Chamber, so that all measures can be assessed in conjunction. GroenLinks is only going to talk about an overall picture, a clear picture of the total enlightenment and increase and its social impact. As far as we are concerned, there must be less burden on labour, but more on pollution and power. The public sector should not become ever smaller. Nurses, home carers, policemen, judges and teachers: we need them hard and hard and there are too few and not too many. We don't have enough for them either. In this respect, I agree with speakers who have called for an early solution to the collective agreement issue. We're talking about real jobs. They're not from the market, they're from the public sector, but they're equally real. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, there will also be a tax supplement to the energy agreement, so that we are finally going to ask for a fair contribution from the large energy-slurping companies that are now excluded. We want green energy to become cheaper than grey energy by means of a smart differentiation of energy taxation. We also need to tackle tax avoidance by multinationals and make capital tax progressive in order to combat inequality. That's a special issue, the capital tax. Two weeks ago we received a letter from the cabinet from Minister Asscher. It states that the government does not actually find the distribution of assets in the Netherlands a problem at all. It is hiding behind the argument that the distribution of wealth in the Netherlands would not stand in the way of social mobility. Yeah, that's what needed to be added! Two hours ago, the news appeared that according to the Labour Party the cabinet wants to gradually tax the assets, but that the VVD contradicts that. I would like to be cleared up by the Prime Minister tonight. Does the government find the current distribution of assets a problem or not? Is there going to be a progressive capital tax? How is this consistent with the previous statements? Let me be clear: as far as GroenLinks is concerned, power distribution as such is a problem. 62% of the wealth in the Netherlands is 10% of the population. That's a problem in itself. Not only does it not want to tax large assets to affect solidarity, but it also affects the credibility of this cabinet. Because wasn't fair sharing one of the three pillars? I'm rounding up. GroenLinks would like to talk about a tax system that contributes to more work, sustainability and equality. GroenLinks would like to participate. If it stays with messing around in the margins or if it doesn't serve these goals in the end, we kindly thank you. I therefore wish this cabinet a great deal of wisdom in the coming period, especially in the light of the changed relations in the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u59	Madam President. The accountability debate cannot take place without the report of the General Court. Like Mr Koolmees, I would like to begin by thanking Mr Vendrik. I'm asking him to pass that thank you on to the entire team of employees. He's here for his whole team. Much work has been done; thank you very much for that. As far as I am concerned, there are three themes, of which I am only working out one. He has to forgive me for that, but I am going to go easy on colleagues who have done so in detail; you also have to choose. The first theme is the personal budget. There have been strong discussions on this and there have been many debates on it. If I am not mistaken, this will soon be the subject of a serious debate. That is what the Chamber, but also the government, is paying a great deal of attention to. The second theme is the Tax Administration. A great deal of attention is paid to this too. Last week we had a discussion with Secretary of State Wiebes on his new approach. A very special approach is being proposed, I must say quite frankly. I think it is going to work, but I would like to endorse Mr Omtzigt's comment. He wondered if this plan had the support of the entire cabinet, because it was striking that we received a letter about a new system, but that it was still without cover. In the long run, the money should be provided, but Secretary of State Wiebes had to mention that the government said that this cover would not be available until Princess Day. It's gonna be a while. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister: that approach is necessary, because without going wrong with the Tax Office, but does he support that approach? I would like to give the most attention to the third issue mentioned by the General Court of Auditors, namely defence. That's where it beeps and cracks. In relation to the debates on the Tax Administration and the personal budget, I see much less attention for this. I noticed two examples recently. Not that they give a clear picture of the general problem of Defence, but they are illustrative of what is happening there. A doctor told me that at a calamity inside or outside the Netherlands we are currently able to set up only one field hospital. It's about taking care of our own wounded. For that they do have the people and the training, but not the equipment. If there is a calamity, it is therefore necessary to refer it to general hospitals. It can't be, can it? DOD should be able to take care of her own wounded, right? The second example, as far as I am concerned, is far-reaching. I spoke to a soldier. By the way, I will not name either because that does not fit, but fortunately we are going to work visits where you speak to those people. So I spoke to a soldier who said: I am working in the highest spectrum of violence and I belong to the troops who, if there is a real problem, are in the front line. He said: during the day that is not so bad at the moment, but at night it is, because I lost my night vision because it is now abroad with another battalion. It's that kind of simple thing: the ammunition that soldiers need to practice with, a simple night vision and equipment for a hospital. So it beeps and cracks in the D.O.D.'s office. The General Court has a nice euphemism for that and says: Defence is not an oiled machine. That seems to me to be the euphemism of the year, thanks to Mr Vendrik. I would like to say that it seems more like expired oil in which no viscosity is present anymore. I ask the Prime Minister: did we not get to the point where we have to say to each other that we might have thought in the past that we could do with these cuts, but we must note that there is no appropriate budget? One of the reasons why this is happening is that Defence is so loyal that, despite the circumstances in which it is in, it still carries out the assignments and, fortunately, we give it. But what does she do? Then she cannibalizes her own army. Then you just see shortages occur, both in human power but also in material. How could we let it get this far? We are talking about the security of our own country, about the security that must be ours and which is important. We do not like the threat of parliamentary investigations and surveys. I am not going to do that now, but you would say that there was less request for a parliamentary inquiry or a parliamentary inquiry. Please don't let the cabinet get this far. I'd like to call on the Cabinet to invest quickly and purposefully. However, I can already provide the Prime Minister's answer. The Prime Minister will say: we see that too, and we think it is a problem, but there is a fine motion from the van der Staaij motion and we are going to talk about it. You'll hear from us in September, with the Prince's Daypieces, and then we'll solve this problem. But the Van der Staaij motion focused on the future: what are the ambitions needed in the future to guarantee security and what budget does this include? The Court of Auditors makes it clear that we already have a problem. In fact, we have two things to do: first we have to solve the problem now and then we can build on to the future. Does the Prime Minister see it that way and listen to his colleague, the Minister of Defence? Of course we have to choose, but I am afraid that we are going to do the same thing that caused the problem in the past, namely that deals are being made, that there is then an agreement and that one wants it and the other wants it. But should safety be above all parties and not depend on the delusion of the day? Several colleagues have also said the necessary things about the AIVD. Cuts hurt, that's clear to every person involved. However, the report of the General Court shows that wrong cuts can also frustrate for a long time. For example, the budget of the AIVD has not only decreased by one third, but has mainly reduced its effectiveness. I've heard others say that, too. Expert personnel have left, the investment in training has been removed, while we find that aggression is increasing in the world. Knowledge and skills have been lost since 2012. Luckily, there is some repair done again.We have, together with others, also been able to contribute the necessary though the scars remain longer. There's been a yo-yo movement and then you see that knowledge and skill go away. I therefore have three questions for the Prime Minister. One: how is it prevented from removing the most important parts of the work in the event of austerity? We can say that so many cuts need to be made, but if this leads to the wrong choice of substance, we are fishing behind the net again. Two: in the case of the AIVD, what are the possibilities of giving the Chamber more insight in advance into the effects of the cuts in order to achieve the goals? We will then be able to take part in the decision on which choices are made in terms of content. Three: in the case of budget cuts in implementing services, will the key tasks to be dealt with from now on also be identified? So that the cabinet itself states: if we go to this budget, that means not only budgetary something, but also content. Then we can really have a serious discussion about that. We all want to move towards a society where people and businesses take more responsibility. Businesses need to invest and people need to take responsibility in the participatory society. What they often run into, that's my last point, is regulatory pressure and bureaucracy. Things you want may eventually be possible, but it takes a long time to do it. Fortunately, this cabinet aims at a very firm reduction of the regulatory burden. Regulatory pressure takes time, money, and maybe that's the most important thing. It causes frustration, which then discourages people. The cabinet is doing its best to reduce the regulatory burden by 2.5 billion euros by 2017 in a structural and noticeable manner. You'd say it's heading in the right direction, but we shouldn't count ourselves rich. One of the reasons why at the state level the regulatory burden is reduced is the fact that we are moving it to municipalities, for example. But that doesn't help that entrepreneur or volunteer. It only means less control pressure on paper by the Empire. Is the Prime Minister also prepared to look at the fact that, on balance, it has to be 2.5 billion less and not just part or all of the Empire? Also, the expected reduction in control pressure at the beginning of a legislative process does not mean that this is the end of the song. How does the Prime Minister ensure that this happens, for example with a letter of amendment? Actal rang the bell a month ago and indicates that the focus on tackling and preventing regulatory pressure is slackening. I would like to make a very specific proposal. I am explaining a recommendation from that package that Actal gives, which I do not think the Prime Minister can ignore at least. Actal writes that in taxation it regularly occurs that the Tax Administration carries out measures on behalf of other ministries but that neither cares about the corresponding regulatory burden. For example, Social Affairs says that the Tax Administration is doing it and that they should do it right there and the Tax Administration says: we are only implementing the Social Affairs Act. I would like to ask the Prime Minister to take the lead and ensure that in such a case involving two ministries, there is always a ruler. 'Cause that rule pressure has to go down, it's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u60	Madam President. The Accountability debate is a debate on the plans for 2014 that have been implemented and on how taxes have been spent. As far as we are concerned, there is a stark contrast between the good news letter and the hard opinion of the Court of Auditors over the years. The cabinet loses sight of the people who it should be. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, there is no reason for complacency, as the cabinet radiates. There is also a structural imbalance between the political ambitions of the cabinet and the time, people and resources available. Socially weaker people, the needy and the elderly are also the victims of this imbalance. Because of the limited speaking time, I deal with four subjects. First of all, old people's unemployment. 249.000 in January 2014, 250,000 in June 2014 and almost 260,000 in December 2014. Then I'm talking about the number of 45-plussers in the WW. The conclusion of 50PLUS: the government's commitment to older people's unemployment does not create any problems. The government notes in the progress letter the decline in unemployment that has been deployed. That's great, but when we look at these numbers, the picture is really disappointing. The likelihood of a resumption of work for people over the age of 45 is low. In the accounts, we read that in 2014 €5 million was spent on training and placement of older unemployed people. That's 6 million less than budgeted. How is this possible? How is it possible, despite the major problems, that the full budget is not being used? How does this rhyme with the government saying that the maximum is being done to get 45-plussers back to work? In 2014, the number of WW benefits to 55-plussers increased significantly, while with the decrease in the age category, the number of benefits only decreased. The rightful commitment to combating youth unemployment is therefore paying off. Great! Why not make such an effort to combat the unemployment of the elderly? In short, the cabinet pretends to do everything it can to combat unemployment among 45+ people, but the opposite is true. My second point concerns concern. Today's personal budget drama originated in 2014. We are going to debate this separately, but this cannot go unmentioned today, and many of my colleagues mentioned it. In addition to the horrible judgment we received from the General Court, we constantly heard distress calls from budget holders and caregivers, despite all the good news from both responsible State Secretarys. In a major process of change like this, things can go wrong, but here error on error has been made by both ministries and by the Social Insurance Bank. 50PLUS likes to hear the Prime Minister's views on this debacle. With regard to the implementation of the decentralisation operation in the social domain, the Court of Auditors' opinion is harsh. The cabinet in 2014 was mainly concerned with achieving the introduction date of 1 January 2015. Here too, consideration has been given to the framework conditions for implementation and for an orderly transfer of tasks, powers and responsibilities. The fact that the granting of the household aid allowance differs in two respects from the Financial Ratio Act is a painful illustration of this. I'd like to get a reaction to this. In any case, the Minister for the Interior should strengthen his role in the system of decentralisation, according to the General Court. Those are harsh words. In the context of decentralisation, greater coordination and coordination between the State and the municipality is needed to ensure monitoring of the quality of care. 50PLUS can only see this as supporting the thesis that everything has been thrown over the fence in municipalities, without looking at where it actually is. Public policy freedom has created a great deal of uncertainty and inequality for citizens. That is a different picture than the cabinet wants to create. How does the Prime Minister judge the difference in image between the cabinet, which states that everything is going well, and the social field, in which much unrest and uncertainty prevail? I'd like to get a reaction to this. 50PLUS, like the General Court of Auditors, calls, if possible this year, for an integrated, accessible picture of the expenditure and results of the decentralisation operation. How does the Prime Minister feel about this? My third point is the housing of older people. The shortage of housing suitable for housing for the elderly and people with disabilities remains unabated. We're talking about about about 85,000 homes. New construction and especially house adjustments are urgently needed. In June 2014, after a long press from the Chamber, a transition agenda Langer was finally offered independent living and the Longer independent living team started working. What results are expected from this transition agenda? One of the task assignments of the chasing team is to stimulate and make house adjustments. What has been done about this in concrete terms? Municipal policy through the Wmo does not or hardly give the desired impetus. The low VAT rate of 6% for renovations and renovations can promote home adjustment. Moreover, it is already maintaining 8,000 jobs in construction. Is the cabinet prepared to extend the low VAT rate for construction after 1 July? I'm considering tabling a motion on this. My fourth and final point is the balanced burden-sharing. In 2014, according to the Cabinet, reforms were carried out with a balanced burden-sharing as a starting point. That surprises 50PLUS. What do you mean, balanced? Pensioners also experienced a relatively unfavourable purchasing power development in 2014. It has been since 2010. The financial rules for pension funds introduced at the end of last year further undermine the purchasing power of the supplementary pension. And what about tax measures that only pensioners take, such as the gradual abolition of the elderly discount and the abolition of the elderly allowance in 2016? The decision to do so was already taken in 2014. This is not a balanced burden-sharing exercise; it is a purely old-age tax, an old-age tax. The older is the milk cow of this cabinet and does not reap the benefits of economic recovery. 50PLUS wants to know why not from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u61	Mr. Chairman. Our country is not doing well. 2014 was a drama. A very low economic growth of 0.8%, more than 600,000 unemployed, Islamic terror threat and yet another immigration record. At the same time, more tax money went to development aid, to asylum seekers and to an EU post-tax. Thank you cabinet, thank you VVD! It is time for a genuinely liberal answer to today's questions. It is time for the freedom and optimism of classical liberalism. More than ever before, the Netherlands needs low taxes. My group is the only one in favour of a flat tax, one low tax rate for everyone less than 23%, with a duty-free foot, rising to €15,000 in the end. People then have much more money left in the wallet, purchasing power is increasing considerably, including the minima, and we can finally get rid of that silly, money pumping around and fraud-sensitive CDA surcharge system. We are also in favour of releasing the compulsory supplementary pension. Give people their money back. We want a uniform VAT rate, 10% lower corporate tax rates and 10% lower excise duties. In our tax plan, petrol is getting 20 cents per litre cheaper. Our fiscal plan can, without the public debt rising. It was calculated by the Central Planning Bureau. It has a nice CPB stamp. But this cabinet opts for tax increases. That while our ideas lead to much higher economic growth and to hundreds of thousands of additional jobs. That is exactly what the Netherlands needs. Our ideas lead to a prosperity revolution. The Netherlands can become Monaco on the North Sea. Then our safety. Safety is supposed to be the core task of the government, but unfortunately the VVD doesn't give at home. We want higher penalties for serious crimes and we want to invest 1 billion more in our police and our security services. We're also paying $5 billion for our Defense Department. The aborting of our armed forces must stop. The left doctrine of the broken rifle has destroyed enough. The Netherlands must go back to the NATO agreement to spend at least 2% of our national income on our army. The Russian aggression policy and the growing Islamic extremism alone should make everyone aware that substantial investments in our security are of the utmost importance. Then the immigration figures. Last year only 181,000 immigrants joined, a city the size of Breda. This is way beyond our absorption capacity. The over-representation of immigrants in crime, school drop-out, language disadvantages and welfare dependency call for change. We want a much stricter immigration policy, according to Australian model. Only people who add anything to the Netherlands are welcome and primarily with temporary employment contracts. We only catch asylum seekers in the region. The problems of integration are already far too great. Pim Fortuyn once rightly stated that you can't mop with the tap open. But now the EU is dealing with our immigration policy. Not the European Union, but we ourselves must take control of who we allow in our country. Ronald Reagan said: A country that cannot control its own borders is not really a country at all. He was absolutely right. The EU should then return to its core: economic cooperation. Furthermore, Brussels should not interfere. The EU should not just lift itself up. I'm rounding up. Many Dutch people are longing for more freedom, for low taxes, strong investments in our security, a strict immigration policy and much, much less Brussels. What we want can be done, as I said just now. However, it is a matter of choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u62	Mr. Chairman. I would like to respond to the ten themes that resonated in the debate. However, let me first make a few general remarks, if you will allow me. First of all, I would like to thank the Chamber for the many questions asked and the comments made in the first term. I think I can immediately agree with two elements that came back into much. First of all, the great appreciation for the General Court and the outgoing President of this institution, which will be farewell on Thursday. In my opinion, another fine piece of work has been done, high-quality and giving us a lot of thought. The second point is the terrible disaster with flight MH17 on 17 July last year. I am also thinking of what is found: the international unrest, the threat, the conflict in Ukraine, but also the rise of jihadist extremism, of terrorist organisations such as ISIS. That too is a common thread that could be heard in many contributions and which I also recognize as a big theme, perhaps the biggest theme in 2014. We found in 2014 that prosperity and well-being rest on a solid foundation of democratic and legal principles. One can't do without the other. That is precisely why last year the cabinet took action on issues of security, democracy and justice. I refer to the military contribution to the international fight against ISIS, but also to the integrated jihadism action programme. The terrible disaster with MH17 and the rise of ISIS show that the world around us is not caught in a mold. It is certain that the unexpected is happening and calls for an adequate response from politics. This also applies in the socio-economic sense; the international crisis that started in 2008 and which we are now overcoming step by step, called for an unprecedented response. The strength of the Dutch and European economies is largely linked to the world economy. The question is how we can arm ourselves, even economically, against uncertainty and how we can prepare for the future. That is and will continue to be the bearer of all the major reforms that the cabinet has initiated. 2014 was also a harvest year that has been noted in legislative terms; it was dedicated to the parliamentary treatment of major legislation in the area of the Wmo, the Youth Act and the Participation Act. It is therefore a good thing that we are putting the spotlight once again on the implementation of this legislation and legislation in this debate. Other important legislation from 2014 concerned the Work and Security Act, the Long-Term Care Act and the Higher Education Act. These are all laws that keep our social services available and affordable in the longer term and at the same time manageable the government deficit, creating the conditions for new and sustainable growth. We also see the results coming from the step-by-step recovery of the economy. This was also a sign in 2014, especially in the second half of 2014: cautious positive signals about the economy that, as time passes, are only coming up stronger. The housing market is picking up, investment is increasing, unemployment is still falling too little, but it is starting to fall carefully, and the government deficit is falling. That is a good thing, but I cannot repeat it enough, as many have said here: we are not yet there, especially if unemployment is still as high as it is at present. The cabinet will therefore continue to work on measures to boost employment while promoting economic growth. Madam President, I would like to propose that the answer be given on the basis of ten issues. I shall begin with the question that has been asked about the implementation of the cuts. Then I come to the tax system. The third theme is the criticism and concerns about the implementation of the major legislative pathways. I also deal with the questions that have been asked about care. The fourth theme is fraud. The fifth theme is purchasing power and the labour market. The sixth theme is education. The seventh theme is the other questions on domestic policy. The eighth issue is the European Union. The ninth theme is security, defence and development cooperation. The tenth theme is the government itself. I shall begin with Mrs De Vries' question on the implementation of the austerity package. Her question concerned the planned cuts in the coalition agreement. Is the cabinet gonna make those cuts? I can say that the cabinet is very committed to the government agreement and the subsequent agreements made in the budget agreement. The implementation of the proposed measures is part of this. Should there be any reason to depart from the measures to be taken, this alternative will be covered and the Chambers will be informed accordingly. There are now proposals in this area at the Chamber. As an example, I would like to mention the legislative proposal on speeding up the increase in the age of AOW. It's in the First Chamber. I also mention the draft law on remote gambling. It's in the Lower House. However, there are also legislative proposals in preparation which have not yet been sent to the Chamber, e.g. a legislative proposal on the further reduction of the disability allowance. All this must lead to the planned scale of the cuts being achieved. I come to the questions that have been asked about the tax system. First of all, I should like to refer to the letter 'Chooses for a better tax system', which was brought out by the Cabinet in the run-up to Princess's Day. It sets out the options for a reform of the system. In doing so, we want to focus both on strengthening the contribution to employment and economic growth, and on simplifying the system. The cabinet is talking and the trial is going on. The government is monitoring social and political support. At the same time, it builds on parliamentary majorities. There is intensive discussion with all interested groups about their wishes for a reform of the system. The political groups are asked for their opinion. In the meantime, several areas of attention have been further developed in the reform of the system. The cabinet intends to come forward with proposals in the run-up to the 2016 budget. In response to questions from Mr Koolmees, Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Omtzigt, I can say that it is the intention to start in 2016, but of course there are also limits to what is possible in terms of budget and implementation. This means that phaseling must be taken into account in a major tax review. I can also say that the cabinet is ambitious, but also realistic. We're looking for support. Especially now that there are no automatic majorities in the First Chamber, but also because the cabinet is on the view that it wants to look for a broader majority even in the Second Chamber than just that of the Coalition, it is important to discuss this with more groups than just the coalition groups. Those conversations are ongoing and will continue in the near future. In particular, the Car Letter was asked for. I repeat what the Secretary of State for Finance said about this during Question Time. That Car Letter will be sent to the Chamber in mid-June. The increase in diesel excise duty on 1 January 2014 has been requested. In February, the Chamber was informed by letter from the State Secretary of Finance on fuel tax revenue in 2014. It reported that actual unadjusted revenue from the excise duty on diesel and LPG is 202 million higher in 2014 than in 2013. This is in line with the estimates in the 2015 Millions Note. The excise duty on petrol shows an increase of 82 million euros in 2014. It has been repeatedly reported to the Court that in 2014 there was a cash drawer in the excise revenue. In order to give as clear a picture as possible of actual fuel consumption in 2014, the Secretary of State mentioned in previous letters the revenue adjusted for this incident. This means that the adjusted revenue from excise duties on diesel and LPG will be 102 million higher in 2014 than in 2013. Those amounts have been corrected for incidents such as late payment of excise duty and an additional payment for stocks of diesel as of 1 January 2014 at service stations, inter alia, leading to a shift in cash revenues across the annual border. These corrections also allow us to give as clear a picture as possible of the evolution of excise revenue in 2014 compared to 2013. The increase in revenues from diesel taxes in 2014 compared to revenues in 2014 is visible and significant. So the claim that the increase didn't work is a myth. It is therefore not a question of reversing the increase in excise duties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u63	That was a very clever word game from the Prime Minister. He said they are in line with the estimate in 2015, but let's just compare it to the estimate of 2014, indeed corrected for a little error in the subdivision. Then we'll be 224 million less than estimated. If we hadn't increased that or only indexed it, we'd have made the 102 million. So the government, which wanted to raise 300 million extra, plus the normal increase due to the indexing of between 350 and 400 million, so now it raises 100 million with diesel and LPG. Then how does she come to say that she's achieved the goal? Has the Prime Minister ever been in the border region in recent years? Has he read the report that even for the Secretary of State for Finance, the sale of diesel and LPG has collapsed by between 10 and 25%?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u64	We've had that discussion here a lot. Mr Omtzigt's assertion was literally that the increase in excise duty did not produce anything. That is not true, and I have shown it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u65	We have now had ten sums and, according to the last sum of the government, it is 75% less than the government itself thought. That's about the tenth sum we're getting. Will the Prime Minister acknowledge that excise policy has not produced what was intended? Does he want to acknowledge that increasing excise duties has caused major problems in a limited border region, up to about 20 km at the border in Germany and Belgium?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u66	Again. I always listen very carefully to Mr Omtzigt. He said that the increase in excise duty didn't work. That's just not true. The increase in excise duties has resulted in very substantial amounts of money. The facts are the facts. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u67	I don't want to talk about the tax increase. On the basis of comments from me, perhaps, on the integrality of the tax review plan, I do not yet understand from the Prime Minister's words whether the cabinet intends to submit a comprehensive package of tax reviews to the Chamber and, if so, when we can expect them to do so. We understand very well that this is a staged implementation. I would almost say that there is all the more reason for this, given all the criticism of implementation aspects. But we do want to see the plan in its overall coherence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u68	That will also depend on GroenLinks. What we do as a coalition is see what we think should happen. Then there is the question of how to obtain sufficient political support, because that also translates into public support. That's also the deal we've always made here. That's what all these calls are for. I know how it works, too. If the coalition here says 'these are our tax proposals' and they are here in a public debate, then we need to be real. Then everyone goes shopping in there and the proposals are dead before the paper is dry. If you are serious about a major review of the tax system, it is inevitable that there will be consultation in private. That's the only way to do it. If you don't, it's never gonna happen. If you ask me what I would like, I would like us to have in the summer, towards Princess Day, the contours of the greater movement in the change of the tax system, for which there should also be support by then, and at the same time, of course, its translation into the Tax Plan 2016. That would be my ambition, but I'm not going over that alone. This coalition has a majority in this Chamber, but I do not think it is sufficient for it to carry out a broad-based tax reform, which must be permanent over elections. That's what I've been saying. There is no majority in the First Chamber anyway, so we are really looking for broad support, and that requires a certain ambiguity in what I can say about it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u69	On the one hand, I can imagine that from the context outlined by the Prime Minister here. If you want to discuss something with each other in public or not, or at first in public and then not, which will undoubtedly be partly the case, then the other side of the same coin is the key question whether you are talking about a total package, where you can look at the effects in full, or not. If that is not the case, it is extremely complicated from our part to discuss it at all. We do not know what the outcome will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u70	Maybe GroenLinks thinks that the cabinet, the coalition, comes with: this is what we want in detail; what do you think? That's not the plan. That's not how it's gonna work, 'cause that's exactly how it's gonna work. Then everyone goes shopping and it's dead before the ink is dry. So if we, the coalition, really want to make it a success, then we will have to know very much what we want. That's obvious. Then we will really have to have a discussion with each other to see if that broad consensus can be found. It requires leadership from GroenLinks, the CDA, D66 and other parties outside the coalition to contribute to this. Then we will really have to look at whether we are prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u71	I'd like to move on to the trial. The Secretary of State has previously announced that he would share a prototype with the Chamber before the summer. He also announced a letter on a long-term tax reform. Vice Prime Minister Asscher also said that this prototype will be available before the summer. Now it's getting a little ambiguer. Now we're talking about Prince's Day. Is the plan still for the summer recess to come up with the prototype with the contours of the tax review?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u72	You're in control of that yourself. We're gonna have these conversations with each other. If there is enough music in there, then those pieces are there quickly, but we really will have to do that with each other. Again, the Labour Party and the VVD can do something without problems. There are many doubts about this, but I can assure you that if we get angry with each other for one night, then I have a very detailed tax review before us. Sure, it's getting a little easier because there's also load relief. But I know exactly what happens then. Then we get the whole political game, in which everyone goes shopping and says: ho, I like that part, but not those four parts. Then there will be no major tax reform. So if you really want to make it a success, you're gonna have to do this process part offline, outside the cameras. That's inevitable. That is what we have always said. As far as the speed of the process is concerned, I would also like it all to be ready for the summer. I fully agree with Minister Asscher of Social Affairs and Secretary of State Wiebes of Finance. But it will depend to a large extent on whether you can formulate these common orientations with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u73	There's been a lot of conversations lately. I'm not telling you anything new. There must be something about what different parties want with the tax system. We have been discussing the tax system for a number of years now. Isn't it time for the cabinet to come up with a plan? Then I mean before the summer. Then we can take that step in 2016. We talk about it all the time. It's often announced. The Prime Minister also said last year with Princess Day: we really need to start in 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u74	Yes. I really do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u75	In the meantime, we can see that it keeps moving backwards and that it's getting out of the picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u76	If the cabinet here is putting down a big tax review we will get it done too, I think my political assessment is that it was buried again very quickly. If you really want to make it a success, then you will have to make some choices to negotiate. You have no choice but to make them in private. If you're gonna do it all in public, it's not gonna work. The speed will therefore depend to a large extent also on the willingness of other parties to contribute to this, which extends beyond the 2017 elections. We will have to see whether this will work in the near future. Then GroenLinks, D66, CDA, SP and others who want to participate will have to confess colour. That's gonna be a great trial. I think that's possible. This is also in the interest of the Netherlands, in the interest of strengthening economic growth. A detailed plan of PvdA and VVD seems to me very interesting but not viable in terms of political support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u77	At least that is interesting and new, because until now our image has been: the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs is talking to everyone and making a charcoal sketch of the new system on the basis of it. I understand from the Prime Minister that that is not going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u78	He's gonna do that, but if he puts those charcoal sketches here, we'll know exactly what's gonna happen: it's gonna get ripped apart. I'm sure of it. I've been in politics for about 13 years now, so I think I'm starting to develop some sense of it. Mr Dijkgraaf is a bit shorter in politics, but he is rapidly catching up with me, at least in a political sense. So I think we will soon agree on that. You will really have to look for ways to make the choices that make you partly negotiating not take place directly in the full view of the cameras. Because I'm sure it won't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u79	If it happens very quickly, the result is before the summer. But if it is very slow or not at all, there is no proposal from the cabinet with Princess Day. Then there's gonna have to be something else. But I understand the Prime Minister in such a way that there will be no proposal from the cabinet without broad support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u80	Again, let's see how things turn out in the future. I do not want to make too firm a statement about this. A charcoal sketch can stay very vague, but you still have nothing. In a charcoal sketch, it's pretty precise how you're going to do it. If you put that sketch down at the Chamber, after which everyone embraces the nice things, while for the rest they run to the voters in view of next Sunday's polls to explain what they like or don't like, then the trial is dead. My experience in politics is that, if you want to make a success of it, this can only be done by talking about it in a certain degree, considering whether you can make a few political choices, with a view to achieving broad support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u81	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u82	I'm getting the proceeds from the temporary reduction of the box 2 tariff. Revenue from dividend tax shows an increase of no less than 1.3 billion compared to 2013, which is more than expected in the Autumn Note. For the box 2 measure, ex ante 1 billion has been booked. We see from the 2014 dividend returns that a large part of the additional revenue in 2014 actually comes from the Managing Director's major shareholders. The dividend tax is, as is well known, a levy on the total box 2 charge. Only when all declarations for 2014 are fully processed can we estimate what the temporary reduction has resulted in for the Treasury. That's why it's not a gamble, it's a strong guess. I come to the reduction of the VAT rate for construction, always referred to as a temporary crisis measure. I am always very much in favour of temporary measures being temporary. A third chapter concerns the implementation of policies, in particular in the area of health care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u83	Mr Dijkgraaf and I had asked questions about the plans presented by Secretary of State Wiebes to the Chamber, which are currently out of coverage, while it takes 1.1 billion to implement them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u84	I'll come back to the IRS under the heading "government." The subject is deep in my pile. If I have to find that now, the pile will fall to the ground. I'll see if that's true. It's true, so I'll get to that in a minute. I can keep that deal. I come to a number of questions about the implementation of policies, in particular as regards health care. We have implemented a number of major reforms that include real system changes. We know, of course, that these are always changes that are accompanied by the need to adjust. I remember the introduction of the Work and Assistance Act on 1 January 2004. In the end, that law has become a great success, but in the beginning it has asked for quite a lot of adjustment. This is inevitable in the event of major system changes. This year, and to a large extent next year, the cabinet will also have a lot of time in making all major reforms a success in practice. We see that for the three decentralisations in the social domain there is a comprehensive support programme for the municipalities. The Transition Committee on Social Domain has been set up to help cabinet, municipalities and our partners with regard to the introduction of decentralisation. Furthermore, in certain areas, we have adapted or taken transitional measures to allow the reforms to land calmer and softer. For example, we see that people with an AWBZ indication that runs until 2016 and is covered by the new Wmo as of 2015, are entitled to the same care with an AWBZ indication until 31 December 2015. This is an example that we had to change in practice. The implementation problems after 1 January should also be addressed as soon as possible. I come more specifically to the question of personal budgets (pgbs). This is one of the reforms in long-term care. I would like to remind you why we did that again, all of us, here. That was because we felt it was important to prevent misuse and fraud and to reduce administrative burdens. This large-scale change is not without problems. Indeed, there are problems with their implementation. That is why we are also working to remedy this step-by-step, as we must in the event of major changes. Secretary of State Martin van Rijn is working hard on that. Real day and night, almost literally 24 hours a day, because for the people themselves who have to wait for the money they are entitled to, it is not only extremely annoying but it can also be a big problem in purely financial terms if that money does not come. So we take this extremely seriously and we also very much regret that the introduction of the drawing rights did not go well. In particular, a number of questions have been asked about this introduction. As of July 2014, the Social Insurance Bank has reported monthly to the client, the Ministry of VWS. Those reports shall address the progress of work, risks and management measures. The progress reports have worked by providing relevant information on bottlenecks that the chain partners need to resolve together. On this basis, measures have been taken and directed. In the late summer of 2014, we started in parallel with developing relapse scenarios, because we also wanted to make sure that we were able to deal with the risks related to the continuity of care provision and payments to healthcare providers. At the end of November last year, in close consultation between VNG, ZN and SVB, it was decided to prepare for its introduction. The Chamber has also been informed about this. The responsibilities of the Empire are of course reflected in the system responsibilities of the various rulers, in this case in particular the two responsible State Secretarys and the Cabinet as a whole. The Minister of BZK has the coordinating function and monitors the integral approach of the government's action. In the end, however, it is the responsible directors in the specific area who directly hold the debate with the Chamber and supervise the implementation. The Minister of BZK is also responsible for actively making open government data available. This means that the idea suggested by the General Court of Auditors to use open data in decentralisation is one of the possibilities that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, in close consultation with the UNG, explores in his role as regards information provision and monitoring. So much for my response to a number of comments on the issue of pgb. The ARK has also pointed out that the fact that the decision is made on one part of the decision is how do you deal with the WlZ part in the pgb? I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work on this subject. I think it would be very good if we now focus entirely on paying out the sums that people are entitled to as quickly as possible, and then continue to build on the system. By introducing this system through the SVB, with drawing rights, we must ensure that we have the support of the system that was at risk, not only because of the administrative burden, but also, above all, because of the excessive stories and cases of fraud and abuse. Then the people who are entitled to it can continue to use this instrument in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u85	Were you done with this cube?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u86	So much for this part. I have, of course, received more questions about the implementation, but I will then come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u87	I have a question about the role of the Minister of the Interior. The General Court recommends working more with open data. That's a good thing. However, the ARK also recommends that the Minister of the Interior should be given a coordinating role in relation to the common language, so that several municipalities report in the same way, so that they are comparable to each other and there is one guide for the municipalities; a kind of clue to which they can share that information with the Empire but also with the citizens. Is the Home Secretary, the Cabinet, planning to pick that up and roll it out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u88	The ARK report is a week old. At least this isn't a piece that's dead before the ink is dry. In fact, we take this very seriously and look at these aspects. My first appreciation is that it fits in well with the cabinet's efforts to obtain as much one-off data as possible and to minimise administrative burdens for the municipality. This includes a common language and the use of the same databases as far as possible. This seems to be a recommendation that falls well within the policy of the cabinet. Before I make final statements on this, as you know, I am Minister of General Affairs, but not of all matters, I would like to give the leaders, in this case of BZK, the opportunity to explain to me why it is a bad plan. I have the impression that we're gonna think it's a good plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u89	I am asking this because the cabinet response to the Court's report has created quite a bit of fog. It has been said that it is an interesting suggestion that needs to be looked at again. Last year this was also the recommendation of the Court of Auditors. If we want to keep our finger on these data from system responsibility and at the same time prevent 120 different systems from coming up with all kinds of different data, it is precisely the duty of the Minister of the Interior as a coordinating director to roll this out. D66 calls for this to be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u90	I heard that call very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u91	When it comes to pgb, it is, of course, an example of failing implementation policy, which affects thousands and thousands of people quite badly and which still causes many people problems at the moment. What is the Prime Minister's expectation of the speed with which the last problems can be solved? There's a real hurry right now. We've been waiting a long time for this. We are talking about large numbers of people. We are talking about ten to fifteen thousand people who still have no solution to a problem that has been holding back for months.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u92	Let me first say that I fully agree with Mr Slob. I have said before that it is not only annoying for people who are rightly waiting for money, but they are entitled to it, but it is also terrible if it puts them in financial trouble. This is absolutely top priority for Martin van Rijn and for the entire cabinet. We're on top of this, and we want to fix this. We're working on this, too. A large proportion of the delays between January and March have now come to an end. In the recent report sent to the Chamber, following D66's motion asking for the poll of 15 May, you can see that significant improvements are visible on a number of points. We're not here yet, so I'm not gonna make any harsh statements about when we're in order. I don't think a harsh statement like that is gonna solve anything either. It is now particularly important for the cabinet to continue.It seems to be successful with the approach that is now being followed with ensuring that we get this leak completely over the water. With Martin van Rijn we have someone who not only knows a great deal about the care and the implementation of the care, but who is also very motivated to solve this problem. He has the full support of the entire cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u93	I was concerned about the expectations of the cabinet for the thousands of people who are in serious trouble. It is about 5% of the population. I expect the Cabinet to make every effort to do so as soon as possible. Last week, when there was talk of the least that could be said to the people who were badly affected: we are sorry that the implementation is so incredibly unsuccessful, the Prime Minister said that he finds excuses gratuitous. This surprised me. What kind of message does he give these people? There are people who provide care that has gotten into trouble; there are people who receive money and care, but cannot get it anymore. These people think: beautiful, such a prime minister, who still has a little sense of what happens to us. Speaking an excuse does not solve the problem equally, but there is a little more feeling than from the rather clinical way in which he approached this whole problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u94	I very much disagree with Mr Slob. If he reads back the Acts, he can't blame me for talking about this in a clinical manner tonight. Neither did I in that interview. If you make major reforms, things go wrong. I am prepared to apologize in advance, during and afterwards for all these mistakes, including this time. However, I am also trying to move around in the people who are dealing with this now. People who don't get their money and they can't believe it, because they're mad at the government that's abandoning them. Perhaps it is n=1 and I am the citizen who is not waiting for it; the citizen who would think, if I had to deal with it, solve the problem and leave those excuses for a moment, I'll hear them later. Solve the troubles first, that's how I'm in the game. That doesn't change the fact that if things go wrong, this is primarily my responsibility as foreman of the team. There have been several discussions with Martin van Rijn on this subject in the Chamber. We have implemented very large reforms, for which, fortunately, there was broad support in the Chamber. Fortunately, there are a lot of good things going on, such as youth care, the Wmo and all kinds of other areas. There is now one topic where things really don't go well. We work day and night to solve that problem. Let me go back to the figures. I agree with Mr Slob that a number of people are not doing well at the moment. If 94% or 95% of people are doing well, 5% are not doing well. You can see that all correct declarations received in January, February and March have been paid. Of the correct declarations submitted on or after 1 April, 94% or 95% shall be paid within five to ten working days. The monthly wagers, the people for whom we can charge more or less the same amount each month, are paid by the SVB regularly in the current month. The rapid response team set up pays 90% of the reports within one to three days. So it's not like we're not making any progress. However, I am not going to mention a hard date, for example 1 June or 1 July, where all the problems have been solved. I think we should solve the problem, but we are not promoting that process by mentioning new data here. All I can say is that the Secretary of State and I are on top of it. The Secretary of State is really working on it day and night. They're the best people we can have for that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u95	It can be worked on with steam and boiling water and day and night, but isn't this the lesson that the system has just been made too complicated, while it was intended to simplify it? The system therefore needs to be adapted in order to get this right in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u96	We had a system that was susceptible to fraud. Then we started looking for another system. Politics then discussed this for a long time, even here in the Chamber. This system has been introduced with broad support. We ensure that, against the background of contracts that have actually been concluded, there is a right of draw in the form of declarations. That sounds like the system you need. Where do things go difficult or wrong? This has to do with the preparation of the award decision. Turns out there was a clot. Also a problem appeared to arise specifically at the pgb in the Wlz, because of the precise dimensioning and design of the pgb in the Wlz later last year. These are the reasons for this. I am not yet ready to conclude on that basis that the system we have is not working properly. In my view, we must now make the system we have chosen a success. We're working really hard on that right now. Of course, if in a very good weighting it turns out that what we have now can be a little bit smarter or different in practice, then I am always willing to do so. But if we do that while we are still trying to solve the problems and if we are going to rebuild the system that we have just put in place, then the risk is very high that it will take longer before we can give everyone their money on time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u97	One thing I agree with the Prime Minister is that the main priority is for people to receive the money they are entitled to as soon as possible. That's crystal clear. However, there are also signs throughout this process that we may have made the system too complicated. Is the Prime Minister prepared to evaluate this well in the not too long term and to look at where simplifications are possible? Let us be clear: the emergency procedures that are now being applied also in themselves cause fraud. At least we are getting these signals now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u98	We know that. We are now choosing to accelerate the payment of the sums. Over the past twenty years, the pgb has been done in a way that proved to be fraud-prone et cetera. We now have a new system that greatly reduces the risks of fraud. We're in transition now. Right now, we're giving priority to paying over perfect control of fraud. This means that some of the controls will have to be carried out afterwards. That's what we're gonna do. It may now be possible to pay amounts which, in a single case, will have to be determined that they do not meet the precise requirements we impose on them. Then maybe we need to recover. We are taking that risk now because we think it is important to ensure, at this stage of implementation, so soon after 1 January, that people get what they seem entitled to in the first place. I agree with Mr Grashoff that you should always be willing to adapt it when you notice in the execution that there is something in the design, the design, that makes it unnecessarily complex. However, I have not yet reached that stage. Because I really would like to give it a chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u99	I thank the Prime Minister for being so honest in saying that he does not make a harsh statement about when everything is in order. That means it wasn't in order on May 15th. I have two questions about the pgbs. The first question concerns the 95% drawn from the correctly submitted declarations. No, it's even been pulled out of the paid claims. So 95% of the declarations paid are paid on time. But it was the people who didn't get through who never got into that sample. Does the Minister share that the sample is wrong? The second question I asked in my speech was the following. In July 2014, the Zorginstituut (Zorginstituut Nederland) warned. The Prime Minister states that from July 2014 there were progress reports and relapse scenarios were made. Has there ever been a risk in the Cabinet in the autumn? We add risk weights every time, but are they also used by the Cabinet to reconsider? How'd that go this fall?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u100	On that second point, on what is and is not discussed in the Council of Ministers, I never make any announcements. Of course, relevant societal signals are always involved in carrying out complex operations. That's obvious. I do not share Mr Omtzig's introductory conclusion. I believe that Pia Dijkstra's motion was properly carried out along the lines shared by Secretary of State Van Rijn with the Chamber. I therefore do not share his conclusion on that point. Then Mr Omtzigt had another question that I don't remember.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u101	That is the risk if you ask a number of questions in a row. What was your second question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u102	The first question concerned the 95% that was paid out, so these are observations of people whose pgb is affordable. However, there are not the people who have lost in that whole system; there are quite a few. Does the Prime Minister share that this sample is incorrect, because the SVB does not keep the declaration from start to finish? The second question was: if he does not want to clap out of the cabinet, whether he wants to say whether he was discussed with him in the autumn whether the whole route was on track or not, and whether decisions were taken there. Or do the cabinet and the executive not discuss this together until the problems became very evident in January, February and March? In November, he said at the Libelle summer fair that everyone was complaining, while at that time there was already a pile of warnings on the desk of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u103	At the Libelle-summer fair, where I didn't sing completely planned, it was about something else. In my view, it was about the fact that people in health care are almost deprived of the pleasure of working, by constantly creating an atmosphere of great misery in care. I'm gonna take care of that, whether I'm on a job visit or if I, family or friends, use the health care. We have the best health care in Europe and therefore in the world. Fortunately, you can see that the people who work there also experience this, despite all the negativity that is being spread from the corners of all kinds of parties and civil society organisations. That's what my statement was about at the Libelle Summer Week. That was not in November, but in the run-up to the European elections. I believe that the Dijkstra motion was correctly carried out by Secretary of State Van Rijn. He has taken a sample based on a number of criteria and in line with the motion. The Chamber is going to have the debate on this with him. Of course, the SVB has a role in the whole system, after a contract has been concluded with a municipality or a healthcare office. There too there were serious problems in the implementation, but we are now getting them under control. However, I would like to say one more time: as a political collective, we have said to each other: the pgb is fraud-sensitive and too complex, but we cannot get rid of it, because it is a beautiful instrument. That was a broad political feeling. The pgb gives people the freedom to organise their own lives. We then opted for an approach with broad political support, knowing that it would be complex. If the Chamber really thought that, if you made such a choice, the introduction would by definition always go perfectly, we would be naive. I don't know the room like that. We knew that if you're gonna do such a complex reorganisation, we're gonna need to adjust parts. That's what's happening now. Why is it so annoying and difficult? Because there are people who have to wait too long for their money. This is not only annoying, but in some cases it may also pose a financial problem. I think that's so serious, and that's why we're so motivated to solve this. That is how we stand in the competition to deal with these problems, in line with all the arrangements made with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u104	I still have no answer to the question whether, in view of all the signals from Zorginstituut Nederland and the SVB and in view of the progress reports that the Prime Minister talked about and the fallback scenarios that need to be developed, there was a meeting in October/November where the Prime Minister was informed that there was a problem and whether a conscious choice was made in terms of: we are going on or perhaps we should postpone it for a six-month period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u105	I never give access to the discussions in the Council of Ministers or the Cabinet. So I've answered that question before.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u106	My question concerns the same point. The Prime Minister does a little bit of "where is chopped, chips fall" and "it's annoying," but this does give people sleepless nights. That is also why the General Court says that the time for implementation is incredibly important. Those warnings came last year. Does the Prime Minister recognise that these warnings have been issued and, if so, what has been done with these warnings?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u107	I have outlined this in my introductory remarks on this subject. In all major reorganisations you work as a cabinet on relapse scenarios and think about how you deal with any setbacks in the execution. I've outlined that. We have identified the bottlenecks that the chain partners must resolve together. In the summer of 2014, work was carried out on the relapse scenarios to address the risks related to continuity of care provision and payments to healthcare providers. With VNG, ZN and SVB we have been working to prepare the implementation in detail. This has also been discussed with the Chamber and reported to it. That's the way it's supposed to be. I am not trying to trivialize the problems, as Mr Slob said earlier. On the contrary, I am very sorry that when people are entitled to money, they do not get it, because that is bad for trust in the government. In the case of major reorganisations, however, it is inevitable that things do not always go well immediately. Then I think that the Chamber may hold the cabinet to solving these problems. I note that we are doing this step by step at the moment. Van Rijn's report on the Dijkstra motion shows this. It's not perfect yet and not all the problems have been solved yet, but for an important part we're working on getting the leak out. And that's exactly what you can expect from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u108	So, let me get this straight, the Prime Minister is actually saying that we did get those warnings, but we worked on them through fallback scenarios. But has there been any thought about postponement, so that it could just be better prepared?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u109	Everything is being considered on a permanent basis, but the Cabinet had and considers that the introduction of these very large reorganisations and decentralisations in the context of youth care, the WMO and the Participation Act were sufficiently on track for implementation on 1 January. We knew you'd always run into problems in practice. Looking at these very large reorganisations, we even saw in the state campaigns that it was not a theme. I had taken it into account because you always run into problems, but it turned out that this was not the case in practice, either with the Wmo or with the Participation Act or with youth care. A lot of problems that were there at the beginning of the year were solved. Then we are on a part that is actually a side issue of this major WMO reform, namely how you are going to spend the pgb in such a way that you fight fraud and reduce the administrative burden, encountering a number of very, very serious implementation problems. And we're solving it now. And that's the way it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u110	I hear a great deal of sympathy from the Prime Minister with the people who have gotten into trouble because of non-payment of the pgb they are entitled to. But now very concretely: there are people who have not received any money for months and have, as a result, been in extra trouble, who are getting reminders about their phone bill or who are unable to pay their public transport subscription; these are all additional costs that have been added because they have not received their money. Is the cabinet so generous as to compensate for these additional costs if it is clear that it is not up to those people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u111	Secretary of State Martin van Rijn has already discussed this with the Chamber for the first time. There was talk at the time of adequate compensation. In the context of the recovery plan, the Secretary of State has undertaken to pay explicit attention to whether and to what extent compensation is possible in the event of damage. There has also been a request for advice. As soon as that is done, the Chamber will be informed. So that debate has already been held with the Chamber by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u112	At the moment, there are people who need to borrow money from the people they care about, because otherwise they will not be able to pay the bus ticket to get to those people. Those people don't have time to wait until after the summer until they finally get the tens they're missing from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u113	Mr Krol then confuses two things. On the one hand, the very serious fact is that there are people who have to wait too long for their money. That's what we're doing step by step. I thought that Mr Krol referred to the damage in a more structural sense that is the result of this and how you deal with it. That's my answer. On his other point: that is exactly why all the actions are aimed at getting the system working as quickly as possible. All these speeches on this difficult subject, on which we are so on top of each other, have already answered many other questions. Mr Krol asked for an overall picture of expenditure and results in terms of decentralisation. Municipalities, the VNG and the Empire have jointly worked on the provision of information in the social domain. Part of the monitor is that financial information becomes available to the Empire in such a way that it becomes easily accessible to everyone. The results will also be published so that they become available to all. The PvdA states that accountants in the care indicate that the multitude of policy changes and regulations make hospital accounts very vulnerable. It is mainly about budgets of municipalities and hospitals. In the context of the renewal of long-term care, Secretary of State Van Rijn has established a national work agenda with representatives of healthcare providers and municipalities to ensure, inter alia, that possible problems of legality are recognised and prevented as early as possible. A joint work programme has also been drawn up to prevent more administrative burdens and legality issues. This is especially a point for municipalities. That's the easiest thing to do. As regards hospitals, 2012 and 2013 were transition years, from one payment system to another. The co-ordinated approach, the plan of action and the sector's commitment enabled these complex years to be completed. Now I come specifically to Mr Nijboer's question from the PvdA. It was agreed with the NZa and the field parties in autumn 2014 that the NZa will make a plan of approach for the further development and simplification of funding. Peace and stability are an important focus. The NZa will deliver the plan of action in spring 2016. Then there's the question about the windfalls in health care. That is good news in itself, but at the same time we are trying to be as careful as possible. That's always a problem with the cost of care. There were many years of great exceedances. Now there is the positive news about the windfalls, but still the estimates are not perfect. In order to improve this, we are trying to speed up the availability of financial information. As a result, the estimate can be based on recent realisation figures. That improves the quality. An example of this is the reduction in the lead time of the DOTs to three months on 1 January of this year. This also contributes to the improvement of information and estimates. Letters were also sent by the US Secretary of State. So we are trying to control the problem of estimates step by step, but in the care it remains very difficult, also because of the delay in the implementation that often occurs. Finally, I refer to the household aid allowance. Let's just say everyone's very happy about it. In response to the finding of the General Court, Minister Schippers recognised that the wording in the letters to municipalities could be interpreted in several ways. The aim is now to grant the household aid allowance within the existing legal frameworks and according to the fixed work distribution between VWS and BZK. This means that we must look at how best to respond to the observations of the Court of Auditors in the coming period. Finally, Mr Krol asked for the progress of the Transition Agenda to live independently. The Minister of Housing and National Service and the Secretary of State of VWS will also provide the preliminary report Langer living at home and also the first report of the Longer Hunting Team independent living, led by Mr Norder, in June. It will also discuss the progress of the various actions. With regard to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, I can inform you that the VWS Minister has already promised the Chamber that the plan will be sent to the Lower House for the summer. We aim to do so in June. This in response to the many questions asked about care and a number of implementation problems in this regard. Then I come to a few questions that have been asked about fraud. Mrs De Vries asked a question about bottlenecks that the Court of Auditors has identified in the field of the fight against fraud, namely fraud-proof regulation, data exchange and knowledge building. I would like to make a few comments. Firstly, we are trying to make the regulation more fraud-proof. The starting point is to prevent fraud. This is why, from 2014, all departments will work according to a directive that gives greater priority to the prevention of fraud against legislative proposals. Vulnerabilities in existing schemes are also closed. Think of the additional measures taken to combat fraud involving surcharges, which corrected 32% of the assessments. Also 10,000 unique bsn-numbers have stopped the surcharges, because of which no address was known. Secondly, we are looking at the exchange of information. You need intensive cooperation between public administrations and a smooth exchange of relevant data. In practice, this encounters bottlenecks. This is also apparent from the reconnaissance that was completed last year. It is a more difficult issue than making the regulation more fraud-proof, because it is more in your own hands. It is important that we improve knowledge building in such a way that we can act more effectively. The progress report on the state-wide fraud approach, which the Court will receive at the end of this year, will address the results achieved, as well as the possible new fraud risks. That too is a problem: as you dive more into it, you will discover more fraud opportunities. Mr Koolmees is now going to ask who is testing the new rules for fraud resistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u114	Sort of, but a little bit more. The cabinet has an integral balancing framework for major reforms. Last year, the cabinet-wide approach to fraud was added to that. In the Trêveszaal (Trêveszaal) every time such a major revision should be examined. Now the Court of Auditors says: we cannot see that this is happening in practice. Can the Prime Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u115	It is indeed part of the integrated balancing framework. This will be implemented by default before legislative proposals are presented to the Council of Ministers. Furthermore, the legislative quality test is also a time when the Ministry of Security and Justice specifically assesses the fraud-proofing of legislative proposals. Finally, there is also the Ministerial Committee on Combating Fraud. I can chair them myself, with the Minister of Security and Justice in the coordinating role. It was agreed that the application of the anti-fraud regulation directive should be followed. So we're working on this along three lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u116	In itself, it is positive that there is such a steering committee, but the Court of Auditors notes that there are very often problems in practice, for example with the exchange of information. One department does not inform the other department. Does the Prime Minister recognize that image and what is he going to do about taking it away?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u117	Sure. I have just outlined, in response to Mrs De Vries' question, that data exchange is actually the difficult issue. The Minister for Security and Justice, in a general consultation on 8 April, promised that the Cabinet would draft legislation on this issue in the form of a framework law on the exchange of information. We have come to the conclusion that you really need to do this. Otherwise, you will see that too often, in the case of the data exchange, it is too often blocked in the case of soggy practice. The problem is, however, that it is precisely in line with what Mrs De Vries and Mr Koolmees said about the exchange of information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u118	I am going to go on with the exchange of information, because I think the Prime Minister is saying that this is difficult to influence. I can imagine that this is the case in the exchange with external parties, but I think it should be easier to resolve between ministries. Is what he says also true for the exchange of data within ministries and organisations related to it? The Prime Minister mentions a framework law coming up. I'm curious when it can come to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u119	I would like to be briefed on when the framework law on data exchange can be expected. I'll get back to that in my second term. On the first question, my answer should be that it gets easier as you get closer to home. That would be the expectation, but unfortunately that is not always the case. That is not because people do not want to, but because we are dealing here with very large implementation organisations and sometimes also with very large departments. As a liberal, you would not want that type of legislation at all, I say to Mrs De Vries, but we have also come to the conclusion in the ministerial committee that we need such a framework law on the exchange of information, not only for those who are farther away, but also for those who are closer to their breasts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u120	I hope, however, that it is not a matter of unwillingness within the ministries, but that there are real obstacles to regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u121	Absolutely, it is not about unwillingness, but about regulatory barriers. Of course. These are regulatory barriers, sometimes in terms of privacy law or other issues, which are weighed differently. A framework law allows you to prevent those cases. I will come back to the question of when the framework law can be expected here in the second term. Then I come to the head of purchasing power and the labour market. There's a couple of things about that. The OECD has been mentioned. This concludes that income inequality in the Netherlands has been stable for years and relatively small in international perspective, despite the economic crisis. The OECD stresses that it is particularly important for economic growth that you have access to good education and that unequal outcomes should not lead to unequal opportunities. The Netherlands scores on indicators that give insight into the accessibility of education very well if you compare it internationally. The Socialist Party pointed out that the economy attracts, but that more people still call for debt relief. Indeed, you can still see the aftermath of the crisis. We're getting out of the crisis one step at a time. Gradually, all indicators are more positive. You also saw it in the way that economic growth manifested itself: first in increasing exports and only later in the year we also saw the effects on employment and disposable incomes. As the Labour Party's and the VVD's cabinet, we have always said that we want to do everything we can to ensure that people do not sink through the ice. We still stand for that. The cabinet does not do this by setting targets for the number of people in debt relief, but rather by spending more money to combat poverty. In 2013, the year for which the CBS and the Social Cultural Planning Bureau reported, another 20 million was spent. In 2014 it was 80 million and in 2015 it is 100 million. The vast majority of these resources go to the municipalities, because they are able to provide tailor-made services. They then have the means to properly implement their debt relief. It's a fact: when you come out of a crisis and are recovering, it's inevitable that there's an after-delicate effect. That is why we are making extra money for the customization of municipalities, in order to be flexible in this respect. Finally, the purchasing power and labour market component called for the effectiveness of sector plans. It is now being evaluated of all the plans granted. 77 have now been This week, the Minister for Social Affairs will send regular progress reports to the Chamber. Monitoring and evaluation are discussed in detail. You can see those 77 plans have a lot of similarities. There are six types of measures which can be distinguished in different combinations and intensity. This evaluation will also take into account the effectiveness of individual measures. For example, if you look at the construction industry, 57 million in state resources have been allocated to co-finance the sector plan for construction. The social partners themselves contribute 122 million, and out of the 57 million grants, the social partners and the sector indicate that they will not spend about half of the money. Also fine, then we get it back and the plan can be adjusted downwards. That's one of the things that comes with a relatively expensive measure, namely the learning places. For this, employers must employ young people. That is with wage costs subsidies, about 20% of wage costs, but you can see that a learning place in construction is relatively expensive. When drawing up the plan, it was taken into account that construction would start to attract a year earlier. Now it turns out this hasn't been possible. So you can also see that employers are now taking on fewer young people at learning places than expected. By the way, all this has been reported to the Chamber. It's already settled by motion. It has been moved to a sector plan for the social-workplace sector, 30 million. That motion is now being carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u122	I hope the Prime Minister will come to it, but I also asked him to respond to the following. On the contrary, tackling youth unemployment has been extremely successful. WW benefits fell by 0.23% for 15- to 25-year-olds. With the higher age groups you can see that it's all falling, albeit a little less than that spectacular 0.23%. In the group of people aged 55 to 65, however, you see a 10% increase, while there was money available for it. However, this is not optimally spent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u123	Here you have a very tough problem. The good news is that the average age of exit, the average age at which people retire, has risen dramatically in the Netherlands, to over 60 years old. When I started, it was still under 60 years old. You don't talk to people these days who go out at 56 years or 57 years. People are back to their 65th and now even beyond their 65th. This is reflected in the fact that we do have a spectacular growth in the number of jobs in the Netherlands, but that growth does not reflect a reduction in unemployment rates. This is because there is a lot of extra labour supply. Part of it consists of people returning to the labour market, but part of it is an effect of the fact that we are working longer. Although not many more babies are born all of a sudden, you do see a larger labour supply in the Netherlands, namely as a result of those government measures, On the other hand, it is also true that the problem of older people's unemployment is extremely difficult. Mr Krol is right about that. In many sectors there is experimenting with systems of demotion, bet on other types of functions of people of older age, more training and coaching. This doesn't work everywhere. It is indeed a very tough problem. I don't think you're gonna solve that night with a plan. This is gonna take a really long time. Mr Krol has it, and I have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u124	I will certainly have it after your answer, because that gives me enough opportunity to go through with this until far after my 65th and to remind you that there is the big problem at the moment. If you are going to look at the figures I have just mentioned, I do not understand why the money that was reserved for them was not actually used for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u125	In any case, I note that I am still in this position for a very long time, if it is up to Mr Krol. I find that a sign of trust. Then I come to the following subject: education. But unfortunately, I see...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u126	Mr. Koolmees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u127	The issue of purchasing power and the labour market also raised questions about childcare, namely the childcare allowance. Since 2012, almost 1 billion have not been spent because the behavioural reactions, the effects, were much larger than those previously taken into account. This means that there could have been more people at work if that money had been used for childcare. We have asked a number of times about the estimate. My colleague Van Weyenberg also asked questions about this. Can the Prime Minister still answer that question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u128	The question of D66 was whether there was too much savings in childcare. That's how I understood the spokesperson in his first term. This is in line with Mr Grashoff's comment on under-utilization. I interpret GroenLinks' question on this point in such a way that this group wants to use under-utilization for childcare in later years. I honestly think that this is a discussion that belongs to the debate on the Spring paper. We are now looking back on 2014 and we are looking forward to the Spring paper. The Chamber will receive or has already received it in the short term. I understand that a motion has also been announced. Perhaps it is appropriate to deal with it in the Spring paper, and perhaps that is also the time to include Mr Koolmees' question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u129	Well, Mr. Chairman, here's what's important. A cut-off amount was entered in 2012, with multiannual implementation. What we have seen, and now also see in the annual financial report for 2014, is that the realisation is 300 million higher. So 300 million more is being cut than the government's policy intended. This has to do with the fact that more people are going to withdraw from the labour market or find alternatives to childcare. In fact, therefore, there is too much savings, more than was intended. The question now is: what will the cabinet do with this? Are we going to look at these estimates again? Will it be taken back at what this means for years to come? Could the Prime Minister go into that? That has to do with the accountability.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u130	I propose that I ask the Minister of Finance to address this particular point in particular in the debate on the Spring Note, also because it affects Mr Grashoff's question. I ask him to include that in the answer. I do not have that information, the latest state of affairs on that point, available now. Indeed, I note that there is some 300 million under-utilisation when the target was a considerably smaller cut than in practice. Mr Koolmees is quite right about that. Those numbers are right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u131	In relation to the OECD data, I referred to very recent data. This shows that inequality in the OECD countries has never been higher in the past 30 years. I asked the Prime Minister if he had any concerns about that. As a follow-up, I pointed out that under his policy, 150 000 more people have entered poverty. I have not received a response on either of these concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u132	I think that the latter is a rather bizarre contribution to the debate. In my view, the cabinet is dealing with people from poverty lifts by creating jobs and growing the economy. For this, a whole package of reforms and austerity has been implemented, to increase the growth power of the Dutch economy. There's gonna be a lot of jobs. The economy is growing. That is the most important tool to lift people out of poverty. In the wake of the serious crisis from which we come, there is a group of people who are still in poverty. It has also increased in the recent past. We have added the amounts I have mentioned to the municipalities, in order to be tailor-made in the fight against poverty. I note that the OECD says that income inequality in the Netherlands is small. The same applies to the Scandinavian countries and this part of Europe. Moreover, there are considerable cultural differences in the way in which inequality is dealt with. In the Netherlands, there has always been a tradition of limited income disparities. They've never been this big in the Netherlands. They have also remained stable over the last 10 to 20 years. I think that fits in with some of the views that we have in society. In other countries this is not the case. I find it complicated to start giving a world reflection on inequality now, because you really need to contextualize it to cultural and economic factors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u133	I'm just mentioning a few facts. I do not understand what is so difficult about simply saying 'I have concerns' and then coming up with a proposal: what does the Prime Minister want to do? Let me mention one other fact that I mentioned. The OECD has said that inequality in the Netherlands has cost 5% of growth over the last 20 years. Is that what the Prime Minister's saying? Does he think that's true?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u134	That figure doesn't ring a bell.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u135	What's he gonna do with that next?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u136	In the Netherlands 5% growth lost due to inequality?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u137	Yes. The fact that the Prime Minister doesn't know is worrying to me. I would ask him to look at his officials who can find that message. I ask him to tell us what his concern is about this and whether he will at least check whether that is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u138	I know that in the end the Socialist Party wants everyone on the same income, but that is not even done within the SP, because Mr Merkies also receives more than anyone in the assistance. We have a situation in the Netherlands with very limited income disparities. We've had that for decades. It's a tradition. This also has its own effects on economic growth. However, you have to be a little careful, because if you have no income at all, then ultimately the ambition and aspiration of a society gets in the way. I am therefore inclined to continue to look for a good balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u139	Even the SP doesn't say there should be no income differences at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u140	That's profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u141	We've always said that. However, the Prime Minister simply ignores a fact that I mentioned. Not the SP, but the OECD is talking about the loss of 5% growth from income inequality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u142	Yeah, okay. In any case, Mr Merkies also asked what I think of the international aspect. The Netherlands is still very concerned with development aid and development cooperation. The Netherlands is working on the development of a middle class in all kinds of third world countries, so that these countries can better stand on their own feet. These are all the best and fastest routes to light people out of inequality and poverty. That seems much more useful than trying to export the Dutch debate on income differences to Nigeria and Ethiopia. I think there are other problems there. I come to the subject of education, but I see that Mr Grashoff wants to ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u143	The Prime Minister was just talking about income differences. In my speech, I asked a question about differences in capital positions. But perhaps the Prime Minister would like to talk about this later in his speech. Will he come back to the way the cabinet looks at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u144	The cabinet sent a letter to the Chamber about this. It says that we do not see any major problems in these differences of capital. That letter was sent by Minister Dijsselbloem a few months ago. No, I hear now that Minister Asscher sent that letter. At least it was one of the talents in the cabinet that sent that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u145	The vision of the cabinet and the vision of GroenLinks differ.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u146	I already knew that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u147	That is crystal clear and we do not need to explain this again in an interruption. Then there was the news that the cabinet would intend to introduce a progressive capital tax. That message was contradicted by others. Can the Minister clarify this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u148	There are no ideas in the cabinet about proposals that could be sent to the Chamber on that point, which could possibly be part of a tax review. We are looking at all kinds of aspects and also at this aspect. However, no decisions have been taken on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u149	The Prime Minister will continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u150	Yes. I note, however, that Mr Grashoff's party has indeed embarked on a classic left-wing course on these issues. I see now that Mrs Halsema's time is very far away. But this is just an observation. I come to the theme of education. There are a few things to say about that. Where's the money going and why aren't lump sum investments being cut up? We have agreed in the sectoral agreements on the objectives to be achieved with the additional resources. There must be more academics in front of the classroom. There must be more challenging education for top talent and better teacher skills. This is monitored at sector level with the Councils. It will examine whether the agreements made are being implemented. We inform the Court of Auditors of this every year by means of indicators in the budgets. We are working together with the Court of Auditors to improve the indicators so that the Court will be able to better monitor the achievement of these objectives. It is crucial that schools account for the entire budget and that they also account for participation. Ultimately, of course, this means that we ensure that institutions decide how they use the money for the agreed goals. That fits with the autonomy of schools. I would not go back to the old system, where a separate flow of money was set up for each social purpose. The administration often devoured about half of the money flow. At least it made sure that a lot of people were needed for the execution. We have also been asked how we can ensure that the resources for improving quality, such as smaller classes and more teachers, are put in the right place. In 2013, the first 650 million was added occasionally to the lumpsum. Since 2016, this has been done structurally for the goals agreed in the sector agreements. You can see that the financial position of educational institutions has improved. The money is not intended for smaller classes, but for the subjects I have just mentioned, i.e. for investing in the quality of teachers, for example. I'm gonna go back to the OECD. A study carried out by the OECD shows that the impact of group size on educational quality is limited. I would like to say again that in the autumn we will be reporting further on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u151	I see that Mr Merkies wants to ask another question. Are you done with this subject, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u152	I have one more point on education, Mr President, namely the social loan system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u153	Then let's get the Prime Minister to finish the subject of education first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u154	Then Mr Merkies can respond immediately. With the introduction of the study advance, we continue to ensure that anyone who wants to and can study can also study. That money's being invested. Minister Bussemaker recently reported on this in Buitenhof and the Chamber. It is about improving the quality of higher education, not about budget cuts. The effect is that students get a smaller basic grant but also an extremely friendly loan facility and ultimately a better deal. Instead of massive lectures and almost no lectures, there will be better teachers and teachers, more attention and more customization. I think that is the great strength of what I call the loan system, even though it is now called a study advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u155	That's what I call the debt system. A major weakness of that is that you're already teaching people to take on debts. That sounds like a bad signal to me. But my question is about the 600 million that would have been added. It is not at all clear where that has gone. According to the Prime Minister, is that true or can he say so? There was also 1.2 billion for the professionalisation of teachers. Doesn't it frustrate the Prime Minister that, because it's a lump sum, he doesn't know if it's really spent on it? All you know is that it went to the schools via a lumpsum, but what it was then spent on, you don't really know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u156	That is not entirely true, because we have concluded the National Educational Agreement. There are arrangements made in that. If you could do it administratively simple, you would prefer to do it in separate money flows and say: here you have a lot of money and that is what you are going to spend on it. But we know two things go wrong. Those schools are gonna get annoyed by that micromanage. Then, at both national and sector level, you lost a lot of people to check whether the money is well spent. That's why you make administrative arrangements. That is what we have done: the National Educational Agreement. These funds range from 212 million in 2015 to 689 million in 2017. We have now developed a very good progress system to monitor whether it is being spent on all those goals, such as academics for the classroom, more challenging education and teachers with better skills. That'll be back in the report in a minute. Then you can adjust. I notice that the leadership in education, the people with whom Secretary of State Sander Dekker and Minister Jet Bussemaker have concluded that agreement, are very motivated to show those objectives. They realise that they are important and that they contribute to support for these additional investments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u157	If it comes in the fall, it'll be nice. I understand that before that time the General Court will come up with a number of things. Maybe it comes from there, but it is crazy: today we are holding Accountability Day, today we are talking about 2014, but we do not really know whether the money actually came from improving the quality of education. That's weird, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u158	Again, you make agreements with adult people who also want to improve the quality of education. But you shouldn't be naive, so you monitor it. That's the system. We are now going to make sure that we see in those monitors that it is spent on the good. This is also in the interest of the sector. Why would a secondary school not want to spend it on that? Why would they put it in completely different things when they know it's the last time they get this extra money? So I think we need to have a little more faith.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u159	I also have a question about the 500 million net for education. The figures show that 57% of schools showed red figures two years ago. That has now become 13% of schools because of the additional investment of 500 million net.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u160	There you go.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u161	Yeah, that's a positive development. But we also see that this money should be largely used for maintenance costs, energy bills and teaching materials, and that therefore there is hardly any additional money available to improve quality. How does the Prime Minister view these figures? There is also a debate on foundational education this week. That's where you can see that years of austerity have led to gaps. Now we have repaired them with the extra money from the autumn agreement, thanks to D66, but what is the cabinet going to do to really improve the quality?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u162	This is really a step-by-step approach. Firstly, we are indeed able to improve the financial position: from above 50% to below 20%. I'll just repeat the numbers. What we have put down to ambitions, also in view of the extra investment in education, concentrated heavily at the end of the cabinet period. That builds up, we said. We'll have to get rid of overdue maintenance first, no matter what happens now. I think, on the contrary, that you should use the monitoring tool to see if, in the coming period, the money is being spent more and more on these issues, where the delayed maintenance has been eliminated. That will have to be the aim, because that is why we have allocated the money and not to solve these underlying problems in a structural way. Understandable when it's necessary, but not structural.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u163	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u164	I very much agree with those last words. But my problem with this is that some sort of pattern becomes clear. In the autumn agreement, together with Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Slob, we have reversed the cuts in the AIVD, and we have also arranged extra money for education. Now it turns out that structuralally there was not enough money for that. At the AIVD, which we are still talking about, there was an unwise austerity and more than half of the schools turned red: they just didn't come out structurally with the money that was available. Then it must be the coincidence of an agreement that something like this is resolved. Why doesn't the Cabinet have much better eyes on these kinds of problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u165	Mr Koolmees is getting better at debating: he used to stay a little bit more with the facts. I liked that better, because there are now really apples compared to pears: the AIVD, to which we spend about 220 million a year and the education, where 30 million goes. They are now being thrown into a pile, from which Mr Koolmees draws conclusions. I think they're really wrong. We spend a lot of money on education. To this day, I am not convinced whether more money is the solution here. That also has to do with the question to which you spend the money. I know that D66's solution is always to spend more money on education. That's the deal we made, and we're doing it neatly. This has undoubtedly had effects. But I'd like to set up another tree about whether you could have achieved that goal in another way. Sometimes you have to cause system crisis in a sector, precisely to ensure that a lot of expenditure that does not make sense is taken out. Anyway, this choice has been made. That is a very different discussion from that on the AIVD, where there was a very sharp priority. But if Mr Koolmees wants to hear that cooperation with these three parties is greatly appreciated and that the coalition needs to continue with this...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u166	I didn't want to hear that. I only note that these kinds of problems, which we do see and see and which the Court of Auditors warns a number of times, such as the police, the AIVD, the Tax Office and education, have been around for years. As a matter of fact, because an agreement is being reached, these problems are being resolved on a budgetary basis. But the cabinet did not consider in advance how these problems could be solved and what exactly the problems are. As a matter of fact, they're coming over now. That shows a low ambition of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u167	I'm not going to share that analysis. This gives the impression that in such a very large item of expenditure as education of 30 billion you can solve any problem with extra money. I know that that is the D66 approach and we have now chosen politically for it, but I would like to say once again that I would like to set up a tree on whether that is the only route. That deviates from a much smaller organization like the AIVD, where you don't talk about 30 billion, but over 200 million. I come to the seventh of the ten cubes: "Other inland." A question has been asked about pension funds. It is of course up to them to decide how to best shape their investment policy, in view of the interests of the participants. That doesn't change the fact that we're in extensive conversation with them. The institutional investors have set up the Dutch Investment Institution, which better matches demand for and supply of long-term financing. We are also working on other projects to ensure that SMEs have more funding opportunities. In the end, we want to get rid of the situation that about 90% of all loans in the Netherlands come from the big banks. I can say anything about it. There are a lot of initiatives along with SMEs. Hans Biesheuvel, chairman of Entrepreneurship Netherlands, has recently taken the initiative to make money available. From the cabinet and the sector, but also from the business and from the banks themselves, a lot is happening to get a much richer structure of lending in the Netherlands than we had five years ago. As part of the regulatory burden, we have now identified more than EUR 2.3 billion of measures to reduce regulatory pressure. So that's where we're heading. In the case of decentralisation, we must indeed be very vigilant about regulations which are abolished at a state level and which are added to municipalities. It occurs, for example, by means of a letter of amendment, that the law is amended, which reduces the regulatory burden less than expected. But we're really heading for a net reduction in regulatory pressure of 2.5 billion. If there's any setbacks, we'll have to compensate for them in a different way. It is the Minister for Economic Affairs who has the overarching ultimate responsibility for achieving the objectives. We have an ambitious objective which the Minister for Economic Affairs takes very seriously. I'd like to leave it with him, because he does it with great commitment. As is well known, the plan is to take the decision on gas extraction in Groningen before 1 July for the second half of the year on the basis of an opinion from the State Monitoring of Mines. We now know that, following a ruling by the Council of State, extraction from Loppersum has been reduced to the level necessary for security of supply. At the same time, we are looking for the longer term or any other design of the extraction of gas and whether this can further limit the extraction of gas in Groningen. In the autumn, the cabinet will give birth to the energy report. In that we will further develop these proposals. As a follow-up, a new mining decision will be adopted for the coming years on 1 January. A question has been asked about the traffic fines. Higher fines contribute to improving compliance with traffic rules. Fines can be avoided by complying with the rules. This will improve road safety. I share the view that the chance of getting caught is also important. Therefore, different means of enforcement are used. By local authority there is maintained at those places and times where the effect is optimal. Prevention also plays a major role in this, of course. The influence of road users' behaviour plays a role. The police also contributes to this through visible positions and an active information and media policy. As is well known for the really anti-social road users, the multi-stakeholder approach entered into force on 1 January 2015. They are faced with criminal justice issues, which can result in higher sanctions being imposed. So much for a number of other questions that have been asked about internal affairs. Then I come to the European Union. First of all, following today's misunderstanding, De Telegraaf this morning and other media reported that this 133 million has nothing to do with the post-tax. It didn't go up. Oh, I think Mr Slob has a question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u168	I have another question on internal affairs. Mr Nijboer also asked for this. It is striking that the Prime Minister does not mention it, but the conclusion of collective agreements... Did he say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u169	That's all in the last, the tenth cup about the government itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u170	That's all you're gonna get?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u171	I have ten topics. As far as the interior is concerned, I come to security, defence, OS and the government itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u172	So we're gonna close the collective agreement on the last block?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u173	I thought I'd save it for the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u174	It would be very nice; it would be good news if we could actually close it. But then we're gonna have to wait a little longer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u175	Yes. I don't know if the answer's okay, but we're gonna talk about it. I will continue with this morning's issue of post-tax. May I say that this 133 million this morning had nothing to do with the post-tax we were talking about last year. They are a result of the budget agreement in December and a number of smaller cases. The Chamber has also been informed about this. I am, of course, armed to the teeth, because Mr Omtzigt is now going to ask me a lot of detailed questions. So I'm going to give all the answers to that right now. The change to the Final Act is independent of the delayed ratification of the Own Resources Decision. At the beginning of December 2014, the Council and the European Parliament reached agreement on the supplementary budget for 2014. That agreement led to a net setback for the Dutch payment of 55 million. The balance of higher expenditure for the Netherlands........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The higher revenues, 95 million, were included in the estimate for 2014. But, because the agreement was not concluded until December, those higher revenues were transferred to 2015. That slider is now also visible in the Final Act. In addition, Slotwet has incorporated some of the latest achievements into the underlying components of the Dutch payments, including customs and import charges. Shifting the higher income together with the latest achievements leads to a setback of 133 million. So it has nothing to do with the additional levy of 642 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u176	Well, this is the fourth, and so far also the most clear, attempt to reflect what happened. I mean that in all honesty.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u177	Can you repeat that for me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u178	It's in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u179	You may read it back in the Acts and I will correct it if it is not properly written down. This makes the Prime Minister much clearer than the Minister of Finance, who says that the number of changes has been processed and these changes are the first and second supplementary budgets respectively. This is not a way of providing information. If what the Prime Minister says is true, it is clear. I conclude from this that out of the 133 million about 95 million this year comes back through a lower contribution and that there is a net additional contribution of 55 million, as agreed by the Chamber. The Prime Minister has voted against this, and I have to hand it to this government because he was against this increase of 55 million in any case. I do not think there is a difference of opinion between the Prime Minister and us. I understand that this will lead to a lower rate of payment this year and therefore to an adjustment of the estimates for this year by 95 million compared to the estimates sent here at Princess Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u180	I could give you the answer, but I'm under official supervision, and it's nice if they have something to do. I see people jabbering there. We're in agreement. But again, this has nothing to do with the additional levy of 642 million, which is equally important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u181	I understand that. That was what was in the explanatory statement on the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u182	It could gain power, it wasn't entirely correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u183	I understand. It's possible. Other replies show that all the other countries that still had to pay a post-tax were Italy, the United Kingdom, but also Greece, which has not yet done so. When does the Prime Minister expect that they will do so and that the Netherlands will get back the gross surcharge of about 1,100 million which will receive more than 400 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u184	Mr Omtzigt is always incomplete in the first term, but he has not asked me this question. I'm not prepared for that. I stand on these points to replace the Minister of Finance. I was pleased with the compliment he just made, which I will, of course, pass on to the Minister of Finance. However, I have not been able to prepare myself for this particular question, which was not in its first term. I miss the virtuosity to be flexible about that. I'll come back to this in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u185	Please continue with the rest of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u186	I think that we have already dealt with a great many things about the European Union. Mr Omtzigt has reported that the Netherlands has taken many financial risks and asks if the government is prepared to make proposals so that the Chamber can control the risks. I admit that I will draw the Minister of Finance's attention to that request. We will see whether we can make improvements in line with Mr Omtzigt's suggestions. However, I would like to point out that the Netherlands is not the only one about institutions such as the EFSF. This will therefore always require consultation at European level. In addition, the EFSF is actually closed; no new loans are being granted to crisis countries. This role has been taken over by the ESM and the audit is carried out by an independent critical board or auditors. I am going to pass on this request from Mr Omtzigt to my colleague from Finance, Dijsselbloem, to see if we can improve this. I think I have answered the questions about the European Union in so far as they have not been discussed before in other debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u187	I asked when the Prime Minister intends to answer for the payments to the European Union. As we all know, the contribution was budgeted at 7.6 billion and finally reached 9.3 billion. There were eight supplementary budgets and three adjustments to GNI last year. I would like an overview of all the cheques and all the sums transferred to the European Union, so that we end up at 9.3 billion instead of 7.6 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u188	I can promise you that overview. Mr Van Dijck asked, to be very precise, whether the overview of all changes in the EU contribution, prior to voting on the final laws, could be sent to the Chamber. The answer to that is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u189	Thank you. Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u190	Then I come to the questions about Security and Justice and Defence. A case has been asked for, which the General Court also identifies, namely the accumulation of priorities. The cabinet doesn't recognize itself directly in that image. We believe that these priorities are clear and feasible with the available capacity. Nevertheless, this may mean responding to a number of practical situations and societal developments, enabling these organisations to do their job as well as possible. That is why additional resources have recently been made available for, for example, the approach to jihadism. I come to the cuts on the AIVD. Of course, they were far-reaching. I think we have to note that these cuts have all been reversed. 23 million have been affected, but that money has now returned, because total spending on the AIVD is only increasing further. There has been savings through efficiency and austerity measures. In doing so, the operational process is largely spared. The Chamber was informed of this in 2013. In the meantime, the budget has increased again by 25 million and later by 40 million. It's higher now than ever. It has also been asked how it can be ensured that the Chamber can gain more insight in advance into the effects of austerity in order to achieve the goals. I think it is best to do so through the appropriate channels, namely when we talk about the annual plan and the annual report of the service and make sure that we deal explicitly with this type of question. Mr Dijkgraaf asked whether the key tasks to be dealt with in the case of cuts in implementation services would in future also be identified. I can promise him that we will take this recommendation from the ARK very seriously. This also applies to all the recommendations of the ARK, but we will implement them quickly. We've also been asked what's going on. In the meantime, the additional resources for the AIVD have led to an intensification. That also gives room to reflect more on the longer term. I therefore see the ARK report as an important encouragement to make use of the space available for a sound multi-annual planning. We can now ensure that it is there and that it is under the budget. The cabinet gives a cabinet-wide vision to the two departments through the integrated designation for the intelligence and security services. This gives the AIVD the opportunity to translate this into a multiannual plan for its own organisation. There is also an AO on the AIVD at the beginning of June following the report of the General Court, I understood. The SGP Group has asked a number of questions about defence. Will I go into that now, Mr President, or will you give the floor to Mr Merkies for an interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u191	No, I'd like to ask you to finish the piece on Defense first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u192	The Van der Staaij motion has, of course, been adopted on the subject of defence. Look, I've already won Mr. Dijkgraaf for me. I can only say that we are preparing next year's budget. Agreements have been made not as a trio anymore but individually to give the financial spokesmen of Christian Union, SGP and D66 access to how the cabinet intends to use the funds. Whether or not there's room for additional spending on Defense will turn out to be. Of course, I can't say anything about that in public before Prince's Day. I can say that the Van der Staaij motion is an important part of our guidelines and that we take it seriously. I think that I have responded to a number of remarks made by Mr Dijkgraaf in his adjunctive capacity. He called for a good hearing of the Minister of Defence and for her to be able to solve serious problems. He also asked if it's true that the DOD will get money next year. He made a number of comments about Defence that fit in with the more general call on his side and his party to approach Defence in particular as a matter of priority. Whether we do, I can't say before Princess Day. However, Mr Dijkgraaf is in a position that he knows something about it earlier than others and can find out something about it. We will not only continue to talk to the financial spokesmen of the three parties, but they will also remain able to exert special influence on this coalition. Then D66 had a specific question about the problems in the Defense Department, which cannot all be solved at the same time. I can say that we are working on internal management and information at the Department of Defence along different lines. A consistent and dosed approach to all kinds of issues will be ensured. Where routes can be performed independently of each other at different locations in the organisation, this happens. If it is to be integrated, the priorities set out in the 2015 budget will apply: IT, ERP, financial sustainability, acquisition chain, technical staff, spare parts, financial management and real estate. Steps have also been taken to plan more realistically in the future and to gain more insight into the cost of weapon systems through the system of life cycle costing. That too is a growth path. In the end, we want to get rid of the Court of Auditors' criticism of defence. We are very motivated to do so, but the Court of Auditors' meaningful comments on the Ministry of Defence also make further improvements. That in the area of security, OS and Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u193	Last Sunday, the head of the AIVD in Buitenhof said that there was not really a vision in this austerity. Is that what the Prime Minister's saying? Or can he tell us what vision there was? If he is now looking back at this enormous austerity, which was made up for later, then has this been wise?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u194	The austerity had to do with improving efficiency and austerity. What you have to establish is that even in an organization that grows and comes with money, sometimes it is very wise to pull the comb through. After all, each organisation tends to expand in the non-core process. So that's not bad at all. In addition, at the start of the cabinet there were some very specific austerity grounds under the AIVD which were not all in force during the first few years of the cabinet. That is also one of the reasons why we have decided, partly also encouraged by partners, to ensure that these cuts were turned into an intensification.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u195	You wouldn't want to see that again, of course, because of the attacks, that is why we are pursuing this yo-yo policy and why we are returning to it. You can't say: we took it off first, it's added now, so the problem isn't there anymore. There has been enormous damage, because the service that is supposed to provide peace and security, itself, had no peace and security and had to see people leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u196	The last important addition to the AIVD budget is indeed related to the increased jihadist threat, but not so much from the perspective that there would be too little money for it now, but from the analysis made by the Cabinet that, given that we assume that the jihadist threat has a longer lead time, it is important to reflect that longer lead time in the budgets for the AIVD and the operational strength.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u197	The Prime Minister says it's good to go to the AIVD every now and then to shake up the bed to see if it can be more efficient. But with the AIVD there is a reduction of one third of the budget: almost 70 million out of 200 million. The Court notes that 170 highly qualified people have left with special knowledge and that there has been a yojo policy. The quality has therefore deteriorated. All cuts have now been reversed or almost reversed. Isn't that an example of ill-thought-out austerity? Isn't that an example of what was also warned when the cabinet presented these plans? Can the Prime Minister at least acknowledge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u198	The cuts that the cabinet intended at the start of the coalition were partly about issues related to efficiency and austerity measures. That part is also affected. In the meantime, that budget is back and can be spent on other things. In itself, that is not a bad development, because I think it is useful for each organisation to look at the possibilities of austerity in the non-core process every few years. In addition, there was an objective to cut costs in the core process of the AIVD. It has not been dealt with and all the planned cuts have now been reversed and there is even a net increase in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u199	The debate on accountability is a debate in which you look back at what happened and try to learn from what went wrong. This represents a third of the budget. That can't be for efficiency, but that just affects the core process. These are the 170 qualified employees who left the AIVD with a knowledge deficit. That's not even shaking the bed, that's just a fundamentally wrong choice. Can the Prime Minister not acknowledge that it has just been an ill-thought-out austerity?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u200	Mr Koolmees' data is not correct. He says a third of the budget was taken away. That's not true. Twenty-three million has actually been cut, and that money is now all there again. The cuts have taken place in the field of the non-operational process, efficiency, austerity and so on. In addition, there were plans to make further cuts in the core process. That was not then done. Then I come to the last part, and that concerns the government itself. A question has been asked about the administrative hustle and bustle. The best way to reduce the administrative pressure is for the political majority that seemed to sign off on reducing the administrative pressure, consisting of GroenLinks and D66, giving support to the coalition of PvdA and VVD, to manifest again. And then we're gonna do that, but at this point, as a coalition, we simply don't have a majority in the Upper House. We have come to an end in the talks but in the end GroenLinks and D66 decided not to give that support. I respect that, but that, of course, limits the Cabinet's ability to take major steps in this respect. What we are doing at the same time is reducing administrative pressure in all kinds of other areas. For example, today the Gooise Lakes bill, consisting of Naarden, Bussum and Muiden, was discussed in the First Chamber. In the last year, the number of municipalities fell by 10 from 403 to 393. So that goes on. As far as middle management is concerned, there was a great idea that we were looking for support for, but unfortunately this was not possible because of the lack of support from the two liberal parties, I am sorry, from D66 and GroenLinks. A question has also been asked about more control and small scale in the public sector. The PvdA has asked a general but important question on this point. We share the PvdA's desire for more control and small scale. A number of very concrete initiatives and measures have also been included in the coalition agreement. Some of them have also been transposed into legislation. I also look at the decentralisations in the social domain, where we really choose the desire to bring human measure back into the social domain and to give people more control and direction over their own lives. Secondly, I would like to point out that in various public sectors, such as care and housing markets, the cabinet has introduced a legal merger test which also recognises that the interests of the most concerned stakeholders, such as clients and staff, are taken into account before consent can be granted for this type of merger, but also with the aim of preventing too large organisations that would cause that human dimension to be lost. Moreover, small scale is not an end in itself, but depends heavily on the tasks and sectors. Efficiency and capacity for competition and cooperation are also relevant factors. I think this is a sensible policy. Thirdly, this cabinet has implemented measures in the public sector to strengthen the governance and internal supervision of public organisations and supervisory boards. These measures are also designed to stimulate control and small scale. In this area, therefore, the thinking does not stand still. I also think that we should look at what is possible in this area, without falling into functional decentralisation. As a cabinet, we are not from corporateism, but we are from territorial decentralisation. You can see that it is beginning to have an effect on all these areas. With regard to the slimmer government, I have been asked whether I believe that departments should also be accountable to the independent administrative bodies. It is, of course, the Minister for Housing and the National Service who is implementing the reform agenda. We ensure that financial contributions to the ZBOs are included and accounted for in the budget chapters, but, of course, they are independent administrative bodies. They answer for themselves and do so in their own annual reports. I think we should be careful to get a movement in which we bring these quangos back into the central policy departments. Mr Nijboer also asked about the management and maintenance of equipment and assets, such as ICT systems. On this point, the Court of Auditors notes that, in general, the management of the State is in order. Each minister is responsible for improving the quality of his own business. Nevertheless, there are risks in the field of ICT. It is therefore important to properly implement the commitment in the debate following the cabinet position on the report of the Temporary Committee on ICT Projects that the Chamber will receive a letter for the summer on how to put the ICT systems in order. Then there is Mrs De Vries of the VVD. It states that the General Court makes a number of recommendations in the accountability investigation in the field of ICT and government. The question is what we are doing with this, also to reduce the vulnerability of ICT. These recommendations address to some extent the same problem as described in the final report of the Elias Commission on ICT projects. We support the recommendations of the General Court of Auditors, as well as those of the Temporary Committee. We also responded to this in January. The Court receives a progress report for the summer on the implementation of the announced measures. We therefore welcome the various suggestions made by the General Court. Then the IRS. Three new shortcomings were identified by the General Court in 2014. The room knows them. They are largely linked to the bottlenecks experienced by the Tax Administration in carrying out its daily work and tasks itself. This is partly because the Court of Auditors is calling for specific attention to be given to the outdated ICT landscape. This means that the system of work processes needs to be thoroughly and structurally addressed. The automation needs to be adapted to it. This must be accompanied by simplification of legislation. This also refers to the discussion earlier on the new tax system. In the letter sent last week, the Secretary of State for Finance, responsible for the Tax Administration, presents the investment agenda of the Tax Administration. It is inevitable that the workforce will change with the tasks. This removes simple administrative tasks and replaces high-quality new tasks in data analysis and monitoring. This means that not everyone who now works at the Tax Office will have a job in the future. Of the people who need it, the Tax Office is now still running out of them. That's why you see a transition, people out and people in. We're gonna take our time. No one's gonna stand on the street like that. There will be a separate temporary transition organization. We're gonna do this very decently, but it has to be done. Then the collective agreements. We hope, of course, that in the near future the trade unions will be ready to resume the talks with the aim of reaching agreements. We are open to constructive consultations with the trade unions. We share the opinion of the Chamber that employees in the collective sector are doing important work and that they should share in economic growth. This has been said by several speakers, especially after years of zero. Of course, the possibilities in this area must fit in with the budgetary frameworks, because the trees are not yet growing all the way to heaven, although there is recovery. I agree with all those who call for the trade unions to return to the table. That's how I answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u201	Did you leave a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u202	A few. They come in the second term, but two very specific questions were about the Tax Administration. Secretary of State Wiebes has come up with an ambitious plan. For that ambitious plan and the transition that the Prime Minister has just described adequately, he needs 1.1 billion according to his own calculation. Is there any agreement within the Cabinet that the money will be available for the plan, so that the Secretary of State can begin, or should we wait until later before the Secretary of State gets permission?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u203	There's a "yes" nodding from the civil service. I think this issue has already been included in the Spring paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u204	We don't have one yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u205	They'll give it to the Chamber, but the money's there. It would be crazy if we were to send a letter with all the changes but at the same time indicate that we have no money for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u206	The Secretary of State told us quite correctly that it wasn't anywhere yet. We just want the assurance that we can move on now. The specific plan he is sending states that a tax reform is not possible over the next five years and that political desires must therefore go very far down. Can the Prime Minister indicate what kind of reforms in the Tax Administration are still necessary and desirable in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u207	The tax system or the IRS?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u208	Sorry, the tax system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u209	We have just discussed this at the beginning of the debate. That's what we're talking to you about. That is what you are going to decide in part, Mr Omtzigt. How beautiful can it be?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u210	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u211	No, the Dijkgraaf has the floor now. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u212	We have discussed it in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u213	It's about the relationship...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u214	No, Mr Omtzigt, you just have a question and a follow-up question, like everyone else. You also have a second term. I call Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u215	I asked a question about the regulatory burden. Let me give you an example: legislative proposals covered by SZW, the implementation of which lies with the tax authorities. Then you can see that rulers are shoving each other. It is true that in such a case, if it is an SZW proposal, the Minister of SZW is responsible for the regulatory burden? Would the Prime Minister be prepared to bring that to the attention of the various rulers? You can see that there are sometimes ping-pongs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u216	I do, absolutely. In any case, I will report on this debate and emphasise this aspect. Mr President, may I comment on Mr Omtzigt's interruption of the Tax Office for a moment? It was a little because of my short answer that he got into trouble with you. That's what I thought was wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u217	In any case, Madam President, I am pleased.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u218	It is good that Mr Dijkgraaf is satisfied with the previous answer. I'm gonna do that. As far as Mr Omtzigt's question is concerned, the money is there. As far as the tax system is concerned, we have discussed with each other the need to shape this together. We have talked about this before. I'm not assuming we're gonna reinvent the tax system all of a sudden with six boxes and I know what's gonna come. Then you probably have a problem with the execution at some point. I have heard what the various groups are thinking about, and of course I have also received the nets from the talks that Secretary of State Wiebes is having with many groups in this Chamber. It is still going in one direction that can also be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u219	I have another question about the Tax Administration and everything that is going to come up with and the great uncertainty that this entails. Last week we were told that everything will be done to give people who may lose their jobs in another place. That's an interesting signal. Now we know that the Tax Administration also operates in certain regions of the Netherlands where employment is under extra pressure and where unemployment rates are many times higher than the average in the Netherlands, which is already very high. Can the Prime Minister promise this one. Are regions going to be spared? When it comes to compensation for employment, there is often very little to be found in these areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u220	No, I can't make such a firm commitment. I can say that, of course, we have an open eye for the social consequences. But I cannot make such a firm commitment as Mr Slob is asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u221	A little less than, in the vein of making the most of your efforts to spare those areas. I mean, seriously. Think for example of Drenthe where this plays, and a few other places. The rates of unemployment there are so high compared to the average in the Netherlands, that there is nothing to compensate for. This also requires a certain approach from the cabinet to these areas, which shows that they are aware of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u222	However, this reorganisation will have to be carried out primarily from the point of view of rationality and the necessity of the Tax Administration. Furthermore, you always look at what this means in social terms in terms of certain parts of the country et cetera. But I cannot make very firm commitments about it, other than that of course we have an open eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u223	Of course, you do have different approaches. We've seen it in prison, too. We took a spreadsheet to see how many kilometers you have to drive. Then Ter Apel disappeared from the map. Eventually, the Chamber reversed it. This is also a bit the same. Thousands of people work there. It is an important source of employment: in Zeeland, in Limburg, in Groningen, in Friesland and in Drenthe. We cannot just look at thousands of jobs in a technical way. The PvdA would like to call on the Prime Minister to take regional employment into account when looking at the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u224	Checking in, yeah. Mr Slob went one step further and asked for a firm commitment. I don't want to do that with all due respect for the path we're following. As you put it, I say take account, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u225	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of the first term of office of the government. I assume there's a need for a second term. That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u226	By way of derogation from the rule that we start immediately after the suspension to the second term, the Prime Minister would like to answer two remaining questions first, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u227	Mr. Chairman. If I do it now, maybe it'll save you later. I promised Mrs De Vries that she would return to her question on the framework law on data exchange in the second term. However, I just got the answer; it suddenly occurred to me. I promised to see if we knew when we could get that law. The legislative process has recently started. Because of the complexity of the route, it is difficult to say exactly when the proposal is in the Chamber. We aim to do it as soon as possible. I propose that the Minister for Security and Justice take this issue into account in the progress report and that he also indicate the details of the planning. To be honest, therefore, I must keep the answer vague, because we do not yet know exactly. However, this was an attempt at an answer. I also said that I would return to Mr Omtzig's question in the second term when other countries will pay the post-tax and when we will get our own back. But I can also answer that question now. All countries must pay this post-tax before 1 September so that the post-tax can be completed by 1 September at the latest. This means that the Netherlands will receive revenue back in 2015. That's about the 64 million that has to be returned. Indeed, all of this should come to fruition this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u228	Thank you. We now move on to holding a second term. I give the floor to Mr Merkies on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u229	Mr. Chairman. To begin with, the last point, the Tax Administration; I would like to know how many people go out on balance. Is the organization screaming? That's the point, of course. There are 5,000 people who find work somewhere else. If those people do get that job, it's good for them, but I'm also concerned about the IRS. Can the IRS still do its job? Does the IRS still have enough capacity? I'm asking this with in mind the point of the AIVD. I think that the Prime Minister actually went a little over that, like: money has been taken away and money has been added; it is fine now. But after all, you have to wonder if it was wise to want to cut a third. There were indeed no cuts, but the plans were there. Isn't that what led to that huge outflow of knowledge? I thought you shouldn't have seen that in hindsight. Why won't the Prime Minister admit it? I wanted to say a few things about the post-tax, but in fact that is no longer necessary, because I understand now that it was a misunderstanding. I wonder why it took so long for this to come out today, because then we would not have to have had the debate on this. My next point concerns poverty. I notice that the Prime Minister always gets over it quite quickly and often doesn't know the numbers either. I would like to emphasise the link with the debt issue. That's what the Cabinet admits. It has been established that the number of people with insoluble debts has doubled over the last three years. That's a very serious matter, isn't it? I hope, therefore, that the cabinet will set itself goals on which it can be dealt with. Then we can talk about something on Accountability Day. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the average debt of people in debt relief has increased again;]] [[noting that around 150,000 people are in vain at the municipality every year for professional debt relief;]] [[calls on the government to set concrete targets for dealing with debt issues in the Millions Note in the autumn,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34200-3]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u230	I also have a motion on education. On this point, too, we want to know where the money is going in the end. That's a big problem with the lump sum funding. In fact, a lot of teachers say that the money may have come, but we do not see it. So it looks like it's going to something other than improving quality. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in education it is not clear whether resources are also devoted to the objectives set, such as the professionalisation of teachers;]] [[calls on the Government to provide a better understanding of the extent to which funds are actually spent on the objectives set in the next annual report,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34200-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u231	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I would like to hear more about fishing subsidies, 10% of which are bad. I'd like to hear if he'd like to go over that with Secretary of State Dijksma so that it just disappears off this list. If we don't, we're gonna lose the subsidies. I would also like to hear why the VWS core department has issued an additional 50%. The problems at the SVB are serious. Tonight a guest house in Borculo closes because the people who receive 30 children have just received less than 40% of the pgb money. They're not gonna make it, and they're not the only ones. In Amsterdam, only 1,600 of the 5,000 pgb-holders received money; 32% did not. Does the Prime Minister really think there are no problems with the sample? If you're just taking a sample of people whose pgb is paid out, isn't that a good sample? Does the government share that opinion? On 3 November, the Prime Minister at the Libellecafé said that he was annoyed by ghost stories: "On TV you always see the poignant cases." The question is extremely relevant if he had seen and was informed of the warnings of the Dutch Health Institute from July 2014, the progress reports and the relapse scenarios. Then he knew this was a real scenario. I therefore repeat this question. After a great deal of fog, the Minister has clarified the matter of post-tax. However, this clarity means that we expect the expected EU expenditure to be adjusted downwards by 95 million this year as a result of the Final Act and 460 million as a result of the return which is apparently due before 1 January. We would like to see the risks to the Dutch State mapped out. I was quite aware of the tax reform that was dealt with in Block 2 and the reform of the Tax Administration in Block 10. The reform of the Tax Administration, whereby 5,000 people will have to do something else, simply has consequences for what the Tax Administration itself can do in tax reforms. This is also in writing in the report sent to the Chamber by Secretary of State Wiebes. Hence my question: is it still feasible and how do we ensure that we do not get pgb status in the Tax Administration, also because we have the only serious imperfection in the Tax Administration this year, namely the problems of legacy with ICT. This is just a dangerous combination. Finally, I would like to talk about the AIVD cuts. The government is proud that the money was finally spent, but if the discount had been undone sooner, the wrong people would not have left the AIVD. Then you wouldn't have lost 170 men who have been trained for years and have certain extremely valuable networks. The General Court also describes this extremely clearly. This is not a call center, but highly specialised, important work. Does the government want to admit that was just a mistake? Finally, I shall table a number of motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that European cooperation on the euro, the Banking Union, the ESM and the EFSF entails financial risks;]] [[noting that the lack of information, for example on post-taxation, seriously complicates democratic control;]] [[Calls on the Government to draw up a plan within four months to increase transparency and parliamentary control over decisions, use of funds and guarantees in, inter alia, ESM, EFSF, European budgets and European Councils;]] [[calls on the government to make this openness and democratic control a spearhead of the Dutch EU Presidency,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34200-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u232	After the Prime Minister's hand, I say: yes, I am prepared to hold these two weeks for consultation with the two ministers, namely the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Finance. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the financing of the household aid allowance (HHT) is contrary to the Financial Ratio Act;]] [[Whereas the requirements for obtaining the HHT are thus also lacking any basis;]] [[Whereas to date the HHT has not been successful;]] [[declares that the HHT is paid into the Municipal Fund,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34200-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u233	It simply says here: if there is a law, the government must also abide by it. It will not surprise Members that I will be the last to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Court is not in a position to properly monitor the decision-making process of the European post-tax system;]] [[urges the Government once again to make public immediately any correspondence concerning the origin of the post-taxation, the payment of the post-taxation and the request for confidentiality of this correspondence, which has taken place between the Government and the European Commission,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-3420-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u234	Mr. Chairman. That last motion looks familiar to me. I thank the Prime Minister for the clear answer to the many questions that have been asked. I have put at the heart of my contribution the appreciation of the people working in the public sector. I have also mentioned the small scale of the public sector and its control over the public sector. I have heard that the Prime Minister has embraced this vision and has given a number of examples. It remains for me to stress that I wholeheartedly support Mr Slob's motion. This motion is aimed at reaching collective agreements for the public workers, for the people who do the work for all of us and for society. So these are the policemen, the military, the people who work in health care. As soon as possible, they need to get money in the wallet. That is a real token of appreciation that people will experience. To that end, I would like to appeal to the Cabinet. After all, we have already allocated money to the budget for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u235	Mr. Chairman. I told you, 2014 was a disaster for many people, despite all the fine talk of the Prime Minister. A record amount was transferred to Brussels last year. It was not 7.6 billion, but 9.3 billion, or €1,250 per family. That amount just went net to Brussels. This is because of eight supplementary budgets and three revisions to our GDP. GDP was still 608 billion in 2013 and turned out to be 661 billion on paper after three revisions. I look forward to the Prime Minister's commitment to all the contributions to Europe and to its creation. Accountability also applies. I also wonder whether EU payments can be included in the national declaration in the future, as proposed by the General Court. After all, not only the subsidies we receive should be accounted for to the Dutch citizen, but also the payments should be accounted for. Net payment by the Netherlands in 2014 almost twice as much as in 2013. How can you explain that? A Dutchman pays twice as much as a Frenchman, an Englishman or an Italian. How can you explain that? Will the Prime Minister include that in the explanatory statement he has promised? I'll get to the waste. There's not much to talk about. The Court of Auditors says that efficiency is insufficient. The effectiveness of, for example, tax spending is getting a grossly inadequate. Of all tax subsidies, 5.3 billion is not even evaluated, the General Court concludes. Electric driving cost the taxpayer 6.4 billion over the last five years, and it is doubtful whether this will bring environmental benefits. In future, therefore, we should also pay attention to efficiency. The legality may be fine, but the effectiveness of many expenditures is unknown. I'd like to file another motion. In the first term, I told you that we're pumping a lot of money out of the country. That money is better spent in the Netherlands. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is spending billions on payments to the European Union, development aid and reception of asylum seekers;]] [[Whereas this money could be better spent in the Netherlands to reduce the burden on citizens and businesses;]] [[calls on the government, to stop this foreign expenditure and to spend this money in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34200-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u236	Mr. Chairman. Let us take a look at what is going on, according to the Prime Minister on tax reform. Let's see how it goes. On Prinsjesdag the ambition was still so great: a reduction in the tax on labour by 10 to 15 billion. That would create 100,000 jobs. Until today, the cabinet has told us that it would come up with proposals itself. "I will make a concrete proposal to your Chamber for measures and a corresponding timetable for implementation," says Eric Wiebes on Prinsjesdag. Before the summer there will be a proposal, said Deputy Prime Minister Asscher last month. There would be a charcoal sketch and a prototype, but today the Prime Minister says: no, the cabinet does not come up with a proposal at all; let's see how it goes. What's this? Who rules here now? Why has the cabinet only now come to the conclusion that there is no cabinet proposal? Why did nine months of precious time have to go over that? The most important question is: how is this going to go on? D66 has shown in recent years that it is always willing to talk, but I ask the Prime Minister to take the lead. If the process continues to be so messy, then nothing will come of this necessary tax reform. That would be a shame. The Accountability debate is meant to look back and learn, but the image I have left is: nothing to worry about, people, just keep going. Nevertheless, the General Court draws hard conclusions and makes recommendations, for example on the AIVD, the National Police, the PGBs and Defence. I have seen little reflection today with the Prime Minister on all these harsh conclusions and recommendations. Now there will be a number of legislative proposals in the near future, where all these issues will be dealt with specifically, but take the AIVD, which the General Court concludes is being cut by a third and a large part of the knowledge staff has run away. That's an ill-thought-out cut. Or take the conclusions on the pgbs and the defense. I hope that the Prime Minister's colleagues who have a specific area in their portfolio will show a little more reflection. I have two motions for today. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the provision of information on the performance of municipalities in decentralisation is still under development;]] [[Whereas, in order to understand the quality of municipal policy, the comparability of municipal performance and the learning capacity of municipalities, it is desirable for municipalities to use a "common language";]] [[Whereas making policy information available in the form of open data can facilitate control by, for example, citizens and civil society organisations;]] [[calls on the Government to make an active effort to follow the recommendations of the General Court regarding a common language and open dates in the case of decentralisation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koolmees. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34200-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u237	My second motion concerns the childcare allowance. I have noticed that for a number of years there have been windfalls in relation to the estimate, so that, as it were, more cuts have been made than was intended. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that over the last three years more than EUR 900 million of the budget available for childcare allowances has not been spent on childcare allowances;]] [[Considering that a recent CPB study found that the behavioural effect of adjusting childcare costs was stronger than previously assumed;]] [[Considering that it is plausible that the estimate is not accurate for 2015 and subsequent years, which also presents the risk of under-utilisation for years to come;]] [[calls on the Government to have an independent second opinion on the estimate for the childcare allowance and to send it to the Chamber at the latest when the 2016 budget is presented,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Koolmees and Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34200-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u238	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his first-term response. He had to work extra hard today to replace the Minister of Finance. I have to say, however, that we are actually a little used to that in the debate on accountability, that this debate on accountability also had a somewhat bumpy course. That could give the impression that everything is under control. But looking at the issues that have passed, that is by no means the case. A lot will come back. The pgb is a big issue, which calls for a good solution. I would also like to mention the debate on the tax system, the poverty issue and the AIVD. Those are all subjects that need to come back. I welcome the Prime Minister's undertaking that the implementation plan for the UN Convention on Disabled Persons will be in the Chamber in June. We've been waiting a long time for that. For a moment there was a fear that it would be pushed over the summer after all. I hope that ratification, where the Netherlands is one of the last countries to do so, can take place before the summer. Around the tax system, retreating movements are being made. I remember very well the discussion in the General Political Reviews when it came to whether or not the new tax system should be there before 1 February. My group was of the opinion that a little more time could be taken; she did not consider a hard deadline of 1 February to be necessary. Furthermore, I remember very well that the Prime Minister said: in April, the tax side of the budget is really in the ground, so we can discuss it further. Now the cards seem to be held against the chest and the subject seems to be pushed further forward. I would very much regret that. Perhaps the Prime Minister could use his second term to be a little clearer about what we can really expect from the cabinet. I also noticed that the Prime Minister is running away from reflection on the motto of the cabinet. I had asked him very clearly: to build bridges and the way in which the cabinet has given them substance and intends to do so in the coming period. I'm just noticing that now. Maybe it's telling. I come to the collective agreement for the state officials, the police, the military, and I call everyone who is now waiting for a good collective agreement. The Prime Minister, in his answer, puts the ball very much down with the unions. There will have to be movement, but there may also be movement from the cabinet. It is not up to us as a chamber to sit in the chair of the cabinet when it comes to this kind of business. I'd like to urge the cabinet to hold the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas government officials have been out of a collective agreement since 1 January 2011 and other government officials are not currently in a collective agreement;]] [[Considering that the Cabinet intended to release the zero line for government staff and also reserved money for it in the 2015 budget;]] [[calls on the government to make every effort to break the current deadlock on collective bargaining and to reach agreements with the trade unions as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Slob and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34200-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u239	If I ask the government to do everything in its power, I mean, of course, everything within the scope and responsibility of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u240	Mr. Chairman. We had a detailed exchange of views on the solid implementation problems on a large number of cabinet policy dossiers. I have to say that there is a certain degree of recognition from the Prime Minister that these problems exist. I must also point out that I have not been convinced on the basis of the Prime Minister's response that something is changing structurally in the way in which the cabinet would approach implementation issues as an important part of policy-making considerations from now on. We believe that this should be the case. That could mean asking in advance what the implementation consequences are, more time for changes when more time is needed and paying more attention to and really taking seriously warnings coming from all sides of the cabinet at the policy-making stage, whether they come into use or not. I have not yet heard that from the Prime Minister in that sense, but perhaps he can still make this logical commitment in his second term as far as I am concerned. We then also discussed the future, particularly with regard to the tax review. In this context, I have to say, like speakers before me, that there seems to be a kind of retreating movement, with the following phrase of the Prime Minister which I have followed most closely: let us see how things are going and not negotiate in the full view of the cameras. The use of the cabinet has become more unclear in the course of this debate rather than clearer. In this debate, I had expected and hoped for a bit of the reverse movement. That is why I am going to read out the operative part of a motion that I am not going to table, because I think it is too crazy for words to put forward a motion on it, especially from our point of view. Nevertheless, I am going to read out the operative part so that the Prime Minister can give a real undertaking: 'calls on the Cabinet to maintain its ambition for an integral tax review and to actively direct the process in that respect'. Please note that this is not a motion, but I expect a commitment from the Prime Minister in this area. Then I've got two more motions I'm going to file. Around childcare, it is clear that under-utilisation has been going on for some time now. In any case, it seems that under-utilisation has a structural component. Now I'm gonna have to hurry, 'cause I'm running out of time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the Court of Auditors' finding that in 2014 there was under-utilisation of EUR 300 million in childcare;]] [[Whereas since 2012 there have been annual windfalls in childcare and, according to estimates from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment, this has been a multi-annual operation until at least 2018;]] [[calls on the Government, in the 2016 budget, to use under-utilisation in the childcare scheme by extending the scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Koolmees. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34200-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u241	Then I hope I have room for a final, brief motion, on the Work and Security Act, one of those other issues of implementation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Work and Security Act ensures that people on temporary contracts or temporary employment contracts are made redundant more quickly;]] [[Whereas a repair of these negative effects is desirable in order to strengthen the position of flex workers;]] [[calls on the Government to bring forward an adaptation to the Work and Security Act, based on the assumption that flexible work is more expensive for the employer than the same work in permanent employment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34200-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u242	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his first-term response. I will briefly comment on a number of points and have one motion. Temporarily temporary, the Prime Minister says about the reduced VAT rate. However, there was a similar measure already in 2010, 2011 and then from 1 March 2013 to 1 March 2014 and now until 1 July 2015. I'll ask the Prime Minister what's temporary. For example, can it be temporary until December 2016? Isn't the Prime Minister enthusiastic about this successful measure? The Chamber was before, and that is why I am making another attempt to continue this per motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, until 1 July 2015, the reduced VAT rate for residential renovations and renovations is in force;]] [[having regard to the fact that the reduced VAT rate has ensured that 8,000 jobs are maintained in construction and that in 2014 it resulted in an additional EUR 480 million for construction and construction businesses;]] [[Furthermore, considering that continuation of the reduced VAT rate may encourage home adjustment and thereby contribute to reducing the shortage of housing suitable for the elderly and disabled;]] [[Calls on the Government to continue the reduced VAT rate for renovations and renovations of dwellings after July 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34200-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u243	Can the Prime Minister tell us anything more about the concrete results that can be expected from the Chasing Team Langer independent living? When will the problems mentioned be resolved? The Prime Minister excels in not actually answering questions about the pgb and SVB. It is again a beautiful weather story with only occasional clouds, while thunderstorms hang in the sky. Tonight, for example, a VVD alderman from Amsterdam said that in Amsterdam alone 1,600 people are still waiting for payment. I therefore call once again for a response from the Prime Minister. Finally, the Prime Minister qualifies unemployment among the elderly as a tough problem. One plan does not work; that is encouraging for the unemployed, but not really. 50PLUS expects a more active attitude and will remind the cabinet time and time again, regardless of whether this is the Rutte II cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u244	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for answering the first-term questions. I'm filing two motions. The first has to do with the difficult state of our defense. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the General Court has pointed out the major financial and material deficits in the defence sector;]] [[whereas the Advisory Council on International Affairs (AIV) states that the army is in a terrible state and extremely vulnerable due to the huge cuts;]] [[Considering that the AIV calls for a Delta Plan Armed Forces and a billion increase in the Defence budget;]] [[calls on the government to increase the defence budget by more than EUR 5 billion as soon as possible, in order to comply with NATO commitments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Klaveren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34200-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u245	The second motion I have tabled relates to the revision of the tax system. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that substantial tax cuts are the appropriate means of achieving economic growth and creating jobs;]] [[calls on the Government to examine various options for the introduction of a low flat tax in the review of the tax system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Klaveren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34200-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u246	Mr. Chairman. Several questions have been asked. An improvement plan has been drawn up on fisheries, which has been partially implemented and will become visible during the course of this year. A question has been asked about 50% extra staff and equipment at VWS. On the state service, targets have been entered for successive agreements of a total of 4.1 billion. These are also included in the departmental budgets. In many places, the state service is shrinking, but there are also places where it is intensified. As a result of the decentralisations, VWS has temporarily expanded its policy core. Within the overall development of the Rijksdienst, the policy cores decline in FTE. A question has been asked about the IRS. These are 5,000 people who have to leave the service in the long run and 1,500 people who are attracted, including data analysts, and this will reduce the workforce by 3,500 jobs. We are trying through the relocation organisation to prevent redundancies. There are more changes to EU payments in the Spring Paper. In a number of cases they are broken down and therefore they are not always visible separately. Apart from the 95 million and 460 million windfalls mentioned, there is also a setback of 150 million as a result of the additional expenditure on the budget agreement. The remaining changes are further discussed on subsequent occasions. The Merkies motion in part No. Three, I'd like to dissuade. I do not think that quantitative targets make sense, because debt relief is customised through the municipality. Then I come to the motion on part No. 4. Of course, indicators can be addressed in the annual report, but I would suggest to the Court that the motion be retained because the Court of Auditors is investigating the outcome criteria in relation to the lumpsum system. Maybe it's good to get this involved. So I suggest we hold the motion, or I'll have to dissuade her. In the motion in part No. 5 refers to a period of four months. I don't think that's realistic. This is an incredibly complicated project and process. It is a complex decision-making process with all Member States. It is part of the Presidency. As the motion is now, I must discourage her. Then I come to the motion on part No. 6. The decisions are complete. The municipalities are running.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u247	So what is a realistic deadline?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u248	Then you really talk about some years. This will happen throughout our presidency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u249	I am concerned that the Dutch Government should come up with a plan and then convince the other Member States of it. The fact that the original plan does not immediately have the approval of the 27 is absolutely clear. It is about when the Dutch Government submits a plan to the Chamber that shows how it wants to have it around and that it then starts working with the partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u250	I would suggest that the motion be retained until the next debate on the European Council. Then we can prepare for it and I will have a good answer by then. Then I can report what's realistic. We have so many debates about the European Council. I do not mean that of next Thursday; that is too soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u251	I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u252	After that, I'm sure there'll be another one pretty soon. If Mr Omtzigt could hold the motion until that debate, I have the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u253	Then I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u254	At the request of Mr Omtzigt, I propose his motion (34200, No. 5) to be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u255	It was suggested that I, too, should continue my motion. I wonder, however, what exactly is the commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u256	Nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u257	Nothing? Then why would I hold the motion at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u258	Because we can get her involved next time. I am not necessarily unsympathetic to this request, but the Court of Auditors is now examining the outcome criteria. I think it would be useful to include the motion in the debate on this issue. I find the motion untimely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u259	Okay, so the motion can be involved in another debate, but nothing else. The point is that you can't see it if there's a lump sum approach. Then we will be standing here every time on Accountable Day, without having any idea of the previous year, perhaps in a coincidence report that comes later from the General Court, but it is about the system that matters to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u260	Yes, but the Court of Auditors is also about the systematic advice. How can you design the outcome criteria, in relation to the lumpsumsystematiek, so that you can look at the outcome? I see that the people of the Court of Auditors are about to take part in this debate. That is a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u261	Then let me hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u262	Good!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u263	At the request of Mr Merkies, I propose his motion (34200, No. 4) to be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u264	Then I'll come back to the motion on part No. 6. The funds have been made available to municipalities. Funds have also been committed for 2016. It is a decentralisation benefit, in which municipalities are already free to deal with it. It seems like an unexecutable motion to me. That's why I have to dissuade her. The motion in part No. 7 again, referring to all previous debates. The motion in part No. 8 I advise. We are looking at this differently and we are also seeing the positive side of the European Union. In the motion in part No. 9 states that we must make an active effort to follow the recommendations of the Court of Auditors. I already promised. That is why I cannot say anything other than that this motion is superfluous. I am glad that Mr Koolmees agrees with me, but I find this motion superfluous. We're all doing it. He's had this motion copied 30 times, even though I've already agreed to it. That's a real waste of paper. On the motion in part No. I would like to say 10: hold it until the debate on the Spring note. The same applies to the motion in part No. 12. Both are about childcare arrangements and then come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u265	If the Prime Minister can still be very positive about the motion in part No. 9 I want that in part No. I'll hold ten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u266	I'm so positive about it that I think she's unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u267	At the request of Mr Koolmees, I propose his motion (34200, No. 10), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u268	The same applies to the motion in part No. 12. We'll keep it on for a while, too. We look forward to that debate with great excitement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u269	At the request of Mr Grashoff, I propose his motion (34200, No. 12), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u270	The motion in part No. 11 is policy support. The motion in part No. 13 is about the Work and Security Act. That law brings the protection of fixed and flex closer together. You can see that this is also supported by employers and employees through the social agreement. I also assume that they will act in the spirit of social agreement. In addition, as far as chain determination is concerned, the law will be subject to an accelerated review in 2018. That was also a request from the House of Representatives. This law is going to work now. That is why, on balance, I must reject the motion. The motion in part No. Fourteen I advise. Temporary is temporary and is also not covered. In addition, we see the construction rebuild. There is a lot of deadweight in this arrangement; I myself am an example of this. So I don't think we should do that anymore. The motion in part No. 15, I'm telling you. As has been said, we are currently considering the implementation of the Van der Staaij motion, and this is getting very wild. The motion in part No. 16 I also dissuade, but of course we are very interested in the thoughts that VNL has with regard to the tax system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u271	The Prime Minister is going through it very quickly. However, I have asked a number of additional questions about the SVB and the pgbs. This is a big problem. Mr Krol, like me, said that the sample wasn't right. This can be seen in Amsterdam, where 32% were not paid out. That can be seen in closing and in the fact that in the sample only the people who have been paid have really been taken. It's fine. Does the government share this view or does it consider that the sample is adequate? The second one was "see also the General Daily Newspaper" which the Prime Minister said on 3 November at the Libelle Nieuwscafé that he was annoyed by the ghost stories and the distressing cases. Was he then aware of the warning of Zorginstituut Nederland, the progress reports and the relapse scenarios?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u272	I perform more often at Libelle, that was indeed before the European elections and it is true that I was also at the Libelle Nieuwscafé, with Mrs Ebru Umar. On that occasion, too, my statements were about the general care and about the fact that when you work in healthcare, you have to deal with a lot of negative stories from politics and about what would be wrong, while in the care I encounter no other than people who are well educated, who do their work with great motivation and who make us proud in the Netherlands of the best health care system in Europe, and therefore of the world. It was not specifically about reforms, but in general it was about health care. I have already answered Mr Omtzigt's first question, namely that the sample is adequate and in line with Pia Dijkstra's motion. I explained that in my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u273	Then we disagree on the sample. However, the general question remains: was the Prime Minister aware in November of the large number of warnings that have been issued since the summer on the introduction of the pgbs or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u274	I have already said that the cabinet spoke intensively and talks about the implementation of all decentralisations. I myself have the honour to chair the relevant ministerial committee, as I may personally lead all ministerial committees and sub-committees, unless I am not there. Then the vice prime minister will be in front of them, but he'll do just as well. I mean, he's doing great. But I'm not unhappy myself. Specific to this question is the answer that I do not give access to the further discussion in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u275	I had asked a few more questions about the tax review, but I have not yet received an answer. It was three questions. Why has the cabinet only now come to the conclusion that there is no cabinet proposal? How's it going now? Mr Grashoff has just been told by the Prime Minister that he is going to direct. Then what's the direction? Is that the proposal we're all waiting for? Enlighten us, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u276	I'm gonna do that. As far as I am concerned, there will be a cabinet proposal before or in the summer. I said about that: let's see how it goes. Mr Koolmees made a bit of a laugh about this, which of course I respect, but I meant by saying that it makes no sense for the coalition to come up with a proposal which is not, in advance, an agreement of sufficient other political parties. So before the cabinet comes up with a proposal, I imagine it would be wise to talk to the sensible political movements in this Chamber first about whether there is support for such a proposal. It takes two to tango; we can't do it alone. In the end, of course, there will be a cabinet proposal, but only after we have established that it is not being torn apart here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u277	I have another question concerning my motion on the flat tax. At the General Financial Reviews, the Secretary of State asked for a similar motion to be held until the last months before the summer recess, because there would be more clarity. My question is what is the specific reason to discourage my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u278	This was also prompted by the debate we had with the Chamber on the flat tax, also on proposals from the CDA, which came with a flat tax with three discs, sorry, two discs, and proposals from other parties; at least that was not a flat tax. Also in view of other discussions we have had in the General Political Reviews, my fine political feeling is that there will be no flat tax in the cabinet's proposal; at least that seems highly unlikely to me. Then it gets a little complicated to go back to that as a cabinet to put all kinds of advantages and disadvantages. We're not a scientific agency either. So my feeling is not that this will now be the most likely form in which the new tax system will take shape.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u279	I'm sure it is, but it's true that the Secretary of State indicated at the time that it was interesting to look at it and that he certainly wanted to do so. He added the question to come back to it a few months before the summer recess. That's why we retabled the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u280	Okay, but then return it to the Secretary of State. Then maybe he's interested in writing a whole note about it. I do not want to do that to him now without consulting him on this, because, as I now estimate, that note would not have any direct relevance to the final choices we are going to make about the tax system. Actually, that's my trade-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-18.u281	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and his supporting officials, the MPs and the people who have followed this debate on the Internet.
