ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to congratulate the new Secretary of State on her appointment. Chemelot. We got a lot of e-mail. I'll read you a piece of an e-mail from a concerned citizen. The news cannot have escaped you from the great fire at Chemelot in Sittard-Geleen. Neither do we, because my family and we live under the smoke plumes. Why I'm sending the e-mail is because I'm worried sick. Never in my life has an air alarm gone off at an unscheduled time and now twice recently. We feel very unsafe. We hear the same thing from neighbors, but also from people who work there. It is now five years after the great disaster at Moerdijk. I agree with the Secretary of State that a citizen can do a lot of himself, but for this kind of security, the citizen must rely on the government. Following a motion by GroenLinks, a quickscan was performed among 400 Brzo companies, of which only 13 scored positive on all five categories. Has that improved since 2011? What about the companies at Chemelot? Brzo companies are the most dangerous we know in the Netherlands. It's not just about yesterday's fire, because 45 unusual events have been reported on Chemelot within six months. What about the inspections at Chemelot? Are they just on paper or are they physical? Are they just announced or unannounced? Following an adopted motion from me, does the company itself pay for additional inspections that are necessary because there are so many incidents?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I can understand very well that Mrs Van Tongeren starts with an e-mail from a troubled citizen. When I got the file, I noticed in the timeline that there have been several incidents in recent months. Usually things turned out well, but at least things turned out to be. The question is whether this is due to a clustering of chemical companies. We do not want to put them together for nothing; we do so in order to guarantee people's safety better. So is it some kind of coincidence or is there more to it? It is therefore necessary that, in addition to the environmental service of South Limburg conducting research under the leadership of the competent authority in Limburg, we can also make a comparison at regional level in the next progress report on the state of the safety of chemical companies in our country. Then the question that Mrs Van Tongeren rightly asks to my liking can really be answered, because we can then compare this cluster of companies with a cluster of companies in, for example, Rijnmond. Then we can see if these incidents occur more often. Mrs Van Tongeren is right to say that citizens should be able to rely on government and inspections. At the same time, we all know that incidents are not always preventable. However, lessons have been learned, also in connection with Odfjell and Chemie-Pack. This is one of the reasons why fire services have recently been set up. They're also active at Chemelot. The inspections requested by Mrs Van Tongeren concern not only paper but also physical inspections. As far as the financing of supervision is concerned, I would like to give the Chamber the following from my own experience; another time we will have to discuss it for longer. If it is actually a matter of supervision, it is something other than a service that is provided; that is what you see in agriculture with the NVWA............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This can, of course, be discussed at some point at a time when it needs to be financed from the business community. I look forward to the debate on this, which we will certainly continue to have together in the future. This is why, at the moment, these kinds of costs are ultimately borne by the government. I give a letter to the House following the report which will undoubtedly now be produced by the local authority in South Limburg. I also intend to discuss this with the responsible deputy and tell him what we intend to do for the next State of Security. After receiving that report and having had that conversation, I will inform the Chamber. Then we can talk about this a little longer at another time. This is all I need to say. Originally, it seemed to be a warehouse in which chemical substances were stored, which has greatly increased the unrest in the area; ultimately, it turned out to be a warehouse in which plastic grains are stored. That does not alter the fact that there was a lot of nuisance and the development of smoke was immense; you saw it all coming through the social media. The many measurements show, as far as we have seen now, that there is no release of dangerous substances.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-4.u3	I hear that this Secretary of State is retiring a motion that has already been passed. That motion does say that, because Odfjell was not in order, a lot of money in the capacity went to Odfjell alone and there was actually no capacity for the others. However, I look forward to the debate on this. I assume that the motion will be carried out, although the Secretary of State may have a different opinion on it. Of the Dutch Brzo companies, only 13 out of 380 scored on all five criteria in 2011. I would therefore like the Secretary of State to indicate in her letter how far we are now. I'm curious to see how the Secretary of State is looking at that regional executive service. I am getting unconfirmed signals that it is quite difficult to get things in order; they have not been put together for so long, they have to work for municipalities and for the province. Is that regional implementation service well equipped for its task? Another difficult factor at Chemelot is the fact that sometimes the municipality is the competent authority and sometimes the province. That's why you get a lot of cooperation. At a large company like DSM, the province makes sense. Now that it is a lot of smaller companies, it is sometimes the municipality and sometimes the province. That leads to a lot of coordination. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that if you have such a clustering of dangerous and a number of less dangerous companies in one area, the province should be the competent authority? I am very pleased with the answers given by the Secretary of State, but I still have a question, namely whether there are regular unannounced inspections.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-4.u4	The answer to the last question is yes. The current state of affairs of the Brzo companies in 2014 was sent to you on 21 September last in the second progress report State of Security. In principle, we intend to do so every year. I understand that the ILT will soon be reporting specifically again on the incidents that took place at Shell. It'll probably come to the chamber separately. I'm gonna be on the perimeter. This environmental service in South Limburg specializes in major-accident hazards. This service should therefore be highly qualified to deal with this type of incident. Of course, the conversation and the research itself must show whether this can be done properly. I imagine that is what we are asking for. I will do the same with regard to responsibilities. I can't see that right now. It seems fair to me to include this in the promised letter. Then we can have the debate on this. It remains about the debate on the motion. Mrs van Tongeren should forgive me, but I do suffer from a little bit of steeled stubbornness. I just want to intend to exchange my arguments on this point with you one more time, perhaps against my better judgment. If I'm proven wrong again, I'll take my loss, of course. Then that will have to be discussed in the Cabinet. However, there is a more in-depth and complex discussion on issues which I am sure you are generally very approachable to. Keeping supervision independent, especially of large companies, is essential for the trust with which you started your contribution today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-4.u5	That is a discussion you would like to have in response to the letter you are sending to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-4.u6	Yes, and I look forward to that as much as Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-4.u7	I hope that the people who make raw milk cheese will no longer have to pay for their own inspection, but we are not going to have that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-4.u8	I'm looking forward to that, too, but that's a really different story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-4.u9	I think there's another argument. It is said that we no longer have capacity because everything is on Odfjell. You can say that the taxpayer has to pay, but you can also say that if there are more than so many incidents that the inspection has to follow, then the company itself has to pay. That is not directly to the RUD, it is not a matter of "we buy you off." I look forward to the letter and I thank the Secretary of State for replying. I very much hope that the situation in Limburg is rapidly under control and that the number of incidents there is rapidly decreasing, under the supervision of this State Secretary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you. Does the Secretary of State still want to respond?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-4.u11	I didn't really hear a question. I think it would be excellent to continue the debate with the letter in hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-4.u12	I welcome the Secretary of State in this new role. It's very good that we're here. It can happen very quickly. Yesterday was that big fire at Chemelot. Fortunately, there were no deaths and injuries, but there was a lot of nuisance. Today we are talking about this in Question Time. So how up-to-date do you want it to be? The Secretary of State has said she will come with a letter. I'm satisfied with that and I'm curious about it. I think it would be useful to carry out that evaluation of this fire, because, despite the fact that it seems that it has gone quite well, there will undoubtedly be learning points. I would like to receive a letter so that we can include it in the general discussion on external security, and then we can go into it in more detail in the discussion of the State of Security. However, it is still waiting for it to happen. I would have liked to have completed this within a few months in order to be able to look at the learning points. If I can get that commitment, I'm happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-4.u13	I'd give you my word, but that's on one condition. Of course, I'm dependent on the environmental service report. He has to be able to do his own job. On that basis, the conversation can take place. Then the Chamber gets that letter. It must be possible to achieve this in some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-4.u14	The Labour Party welcomes the commitments made by the Secretary of State. We do have a supplementary question. The mayor of Echt-Susteren has expressed his dissatisfaction with the measurements made. He has therefore himself sent measuring teams to the industrial area. Is that known to the Secretary of State? How does she feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-4.u15	I did hear that. I think it would be better if I first discussed this in the region itself before making a public judgment on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-4.u16	The Secretary of State has already announced that we will discuss this further on the basis of a letter she will send to the Chamber. One point I would very much like to see in the letter. I would like to know how, according to the Secretary of State, the fragmentation that still exists in the supervision of this very important category of companies should be dealt with. These companies are still being visited by three different inspections. These inspections sometimes impose different requirements on those companies. This does not contribute to the security we all want for our citizens. Can the Secretary of State undertake to address the question in her letter to what extent it can eliminate the fragmentation of inspections in order to have even better effects?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-4.u17	Of course, things have been done on this subject. However, Mrs Van Veldhoven is right. Environmental monitoring is part of the established environmental service. In addition, you have the Labour Inspectorate under SZW and the security region. In practice, it will not be possible to get these three organisations in one go. I don't know if that's the endgame you have to work on. I have heard that in practice these three organisations are already working together as if they were one service, but they are covered by three different legal regulations. I think it is important to establish whether this has worked properly here. We'll have to discuss that. We will have to assess whether this has worked properly on this issue. It seems fair to me to take that too. In the end, you should know that through my own Inspection Environment and Transport, I can always exercise inter-administrative system control over what the province does, for example. You'd rather not, but if that's necessary, it's an option.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-4.u18	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her reply, for her coming to the Chamber and, of course, for the commitment she has made to the Chamber.
