ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last night in Nieuwsuur it was about vulnerable elderly people who have to experience being in hospital for longer than necessary, about elderly people who can no longer get a place in a nursing home and about elderly people who have to go home quickly, when they are actually unable to do so and are unable to provide home help or insufficient. This is not just an observation, but based on an extremely serious survey.... not even a sample of geriatrics. In the broadcast I even heard the horrible term "file formation." I hope the Secretary of State has seen the broadcast by now and that he will be shocked like me. Older people who have to stay longer in the hospital: how much does that not cost? As a result, they often suffer from severe hospital infections. On the other hand, older people are expelled while it is doubtful at least whether they will survive at home. The result: more re-recordings than adder and unnecessary additional costs. That's not how we treat our most vulnerable fellow citizens, is it? More and more at home: it is a noble endeavour. A participatory society: wonderful. But we saw the cliff-and-ready: this group is not gonna make it. I hope that the Secretary of State will respond to the questions of 50PLUS, because yesterday the Ministry was not prepared to come to the studio or even to give a written response to Nieuwsuur. According to the majority of geriatrics, the situation deteriorated compared to a year ago, while the Secretary of State promised an improvement. How is that possible? Is the Secretary of State prepared to launch an urgent investigation into all the causes of this serious problem? Is he willing to take with him how many people are forced to be recaptured? Can the Secretary of State inform the Chamber of this matter within four weeks? What other measures does the Secretary of State take to ensure that vulnerable elderly people do not have to stay in hospital for unnecessarily long periods of time? The last question: does the Secretary of State also have an eye for the vulnerable group that falls between shore and ship, the people who are not too good for a nursing home, but too bad to be rehabilitated at home?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. I, too, have heard the signals that vulnerable elderly people would remain in hospital for longer than medically necessary. That is not good; I think that is an undesirable situation. The hospital environment is not an appropriate place for people who no longer need treatment. Moreover, I can imagine that older, vulnerable people who have undergone hospital surgery need longer recovery. This does not alter the fact that staying in a hospital environment for too long is simply not good. I think it is a good thing that signals are being sent on such a sensitive issue. In practice you can see that there are a number of possibilities after hospitalization: residential care for home care, primary care for clients who are not yet sure about the course and recovery, geriatric rehabilitation care or permanent residence in a nursing home. The CIZ says it wants an indication, if necessary, to be given in general within 48 hours. It has seen in the first quarter that it sometimes took a little longer. This week I am sitting around the table with all those involved to see if it is possible for him to do so, what is the situation with the available places and whether there are any bottlenecks. We want to hear them as soon as possible. Moreover, we have already established contacts with the network of transfer nurses, who, by the way, are less familiar with the signals issued. They also point to large regional disparities. In short, there are enough signals to look at it quickly. It is undesirable for the elderly to remain in hospital for too long, but we need to look closely at the causes and whether there are regional differences so that we can look very closely at what solutions should be offered. I'm very willing to report to the Chamber on that in four weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u3	In any case, I welcome this commitment. I would like to know how the Secretary of State promotes the ability of the CIZ to provide the indication for this group within 48 hours. How does he assess that more than 80% of geriatrics indicate that this takes longer than the standard set, as we saw yesterday? How many elderly people are waiting at the hospital right now in a place they can't go? Perhaps the Secretary of State could also give that information to the Chamber. How does he ensure that adequate home care is available for this group? The general practitioners have already indicated that this is a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u4	Firstly, the survey did not show any figures, but they will indeed form part of the questions I will ask, namely: give me the figures. 25% of clinical geriatrics pointed to regional differences, so we really need to find out better where there are and where there are no problems. We'll do the same. Secondly, we will look very closely at the differences between the regional figures. We're gonna find out. I was very much in agreement with Mr Achterberg. He said on the air that we shouldn't have a hospital saying, "I'm done and what now?" The hospital should look together with the general practitioners or the municipalities to see what is best for a particular patient. That's what the transfer nurses do. For one patient the conclusion will be: a permanent stay in a nursing home. For the others the conclusion will be: you can go home, but there must be intensive home care. That needs to be looked at patiently. It should not be said: we are ready and what now? That needs to be discussed with the patients.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u5	Finally, I have one question, which I think is very important. Yesterday it was undoubtedly known at the Ministry that the broadcast of Newsuur would come that evening. And then there's no one from the ministry in the hospital, while people at home are facing this serious problem. They would very much like an explanation from the Ministry or from the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State wasn't here. There was no one from the Ministry. There wasn't even a written response. Is this how we deal with information to ordinary citizens?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u6	First of all, it might be good to respond to invitations. As far as I know, that invitation wasn't there. Secondly, a question had been asked to the CIZ. The CIZ responded in writing to Nieuwsuur. Yours will not fail to tell me that I can see for myself what invitation I am taking and which I am not. At least I don't go into invitations that aren't there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u7	It's good to be back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u8	Yes, welcome back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u9	This immediately presents us with the first dilemma: the elderly are rotting in the hospital because there is no place in the nursing home and the nursing homes are closed. And then the Secretary of State here says he's going to investigate! But he has to reverse his wrong policy. My question to the Secretary of State is: is he going to reverse his wrong policy and stop talking nicely? And another thing: if he doesn't quit, everyone can read at home in my book Silvering, which comes out on Friday, what the Secretary of State is all talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u10	Firstly, I am very curious to see what wisdom Mrs Agema has to add to all of us with her book. I'll be happy to read that. Secondly, I have no signal that people are rotting in the hospital. That does not seem to me to be the right qualification for people staying in the hospital. In general, they are treated very well there. The next item is the question of whether people are not staying in the hospital for too long because it is not possible to see where the gentleman or the lady is going soon enough. Then different possibilities must be considered. It should not be said that the hospital is ready and now it is on to the next step. We need to look very carefully at what this next step is. Can someone go home with home care? Do we need a revalidation? Is there first-line accommodation or should there be permanent residence in the nursing home? This must be done as soon as possible, especially in situations where dismissal from the hospital is at issue. There are therefore different possibilities and perhaps also regional differences. The transfer nurses generally do incredibly good work in that area. We have good contacts with them. As I said earlier, I will inform the Chamber of my findings.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u11	The Secretary of State is well aware of how the system works, but it concerns people who are in hospital for too long because there is congestion, because we have looked at what care they need but this care is not available. The Secretary of State threw away his old shoes before he had new ones. The nursing homes aren't answering anyone's phone anymore. And now the Secretary of State wants to investigate. Of course, that's fine, but is he prepared to allow access to the nursing homes during this investigation, so that we at least get rid of the terrible word "file-forming" for the elderly who are now unnecessarily long in the hospital?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u12	As Mrs Leijten knows, we have kept a separate subsidy scheme in place, particularly in those cases where placing in the nursing home is involved. It has just remained intact under the Long-Term Care Act. It has also been funded. This means that access to nursing homes is not denied at all. Those nursing homes are still here. There is even a separate subsidy scheme for which there is money. It's just been bought in. On the basis of the figures, I have no reason to say that there are large waiting lists there, or 'file formation' to use Mr Krol's word. If someone needs to go to a nursing home, insurers just have a duty of care. There is also money for this; there is a separate subsidy scheme, which can simply be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u13	This subsidy scheme concerns the existing indications and therefore does not help this group. The question that the CDA has to this Secretary of State is what he is going to do for those who no longer belong in an expensive bed in the hospital, because there is no medical matter that can be taken care of there, and who are not in a place for rehabilitation, because they are 91 years old, like the lady last night, but who apparently are not eligible for a place in the nursing home, because they are still too good for that. What's the Secretary of State gonna do for these people? When you watched the broadcast last night and you saw that lady hanging in the braces to get up, you know something has to happen, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u14	We have agreed good arrangements for this, including in the Chamber. That is, there is an objective test of whether someone is eligible for a nursing home. On the contrary, it does not take into account the circumstances, but rather whether access to the nursing home should be provided. That's what the Central Indicative Body (CIZ) is for. In the event that this is not the case, and people can still stay in the home situation, more or less intensive home care will have to be provided. That is the case for a lot of people. I assume that Mrs Keijzer would also not want it to be the standard solution for someone who is in the hospital to come to a nursing home permanently afterwards. That does not seem to me to be a good thing for the people in question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u15	Thank you for your answers. You may stay for a while, because you are also going to answer the second question. This would actually be put to the Minister, but there is no one.
