ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u1	I am the first speaker to give the floor to Mr Van Meenen. Mr Jasper van Dijk has been added to the list of speakers. He'll talk later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. We have talked very extensively about the situation at the ROC Leiden. D66 maintains the view that the Minister should have intervened earlier. Now we are put with our backs against the wall. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment she made during the debate to develop scenarios for future bankruptcies in education and in the public sector in general. In my group's view, there are two measures that can prevent education from going to the brink of real estate. First of all, that's a housing test. D66, together with the PvdA, has previously tabled a motion on this matter which has been adopted. We look forward to working on it. Secondly, the assent of the participation body to the budget is fundamental. A motion has also been tabled by D66 and the SP. My group is looking forward to the drafting of this motion in the strengthening of administrative power Act. Both bankruptcy and muddying is not an option for my group for ROC Leiden. They are two evils with both considerable disadvantages and uncertainties for students and teachers, who have no part in the cause of the problem. D66 considers a controlled phasing-out of the ROC Leiden, as the Minister explained in her letter, the best solution. We find each other reasonable in that solution. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the ROC Leiden is bankrupt in material terms as a result of irresponsible administrative action;]] [[Whereas educational establishments should be able to go bankrupt in a controlled manner;]] [[whereas a formal bankruptcy of ROC Leiden cannot be controlled at present and therefore the consequences of bankruptcy for the students and employees concerned, for the MBO sector as a whole and for the Treasury cannot be considered;]] [[Whereas the 8,500 students and the staff of ROC Leiden should no longer be kept in uncertainty about the continuity of education;]] [[Whereas it is the responsibility of the public authorities to ensure the pluralism of the education system, to promote cooperation between educational institutions and to prevent undue competition, and to promote the small-scale organisation of vocational education;]] [[noting that EUR 18 million is now needed to ensure the continuity of education and employment;]] [[further noted that the housing arrangements now made make it possible to dispose of the ROC Leiden CS building from 2018, which will allow healthy operation;]] [[expresses regret that a controlled bankruptcy has not been opted for in good time;]] [[calls on the government, for 2018, to reduce the training offer and thus the size of ROC Leiden controlled by transferring students and staff to other institutions in the region, or where possible. maintain a core of good training at ROC Leiden, thereby ensuring the pluralism of the offer and promoting cooperation between institutions, and informing the Court in a plan of approach including a financial paragraph before 1 October 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33495-71]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u3	We have been together as a Chamber for a long time to ensure that we have enough information about the different scenarios for the ROC Leiden. Since last night, a scenario has suddenly been added. Mr Van Meenen calls this scenario 3, but it is actually a whole new plan. Is it true that he simply transfers the 18 million euros, most of which go to real estate arrangements, without knowing exactly what the financial consequences are and without knowing where the money is going? Is Mr. Van Meenen just giving a blank cheque?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u4	Absolutely not. That EUR 18 million is needed to ensure the survival of the school. The documents have shown that to be sufficient. In the final analysis, it is inexcusable for my group that students and staff who are not part of the cause of the problem should end up in a situation which is completely uncontrolled and in which all kinds of financial interests prevail. That's what happens when the case comes into the hands of a curator who we don't know at all what he's going to do. For my group, this is ultimately an unacceptable scenario. I do think, as my motion states, that educational assumptions should be checked out. That could have happened here if we had done that before. It is therefore a good thing that we are going to investigate how this can be done. However, I do not feel like saying at the moment: gosh, it would be good if a school went bankrupt, so let's do it now. I can taste that in the tone of the VVD. We are not facing any uncertain future at all. We must ensure that we reduce the roc controlled to something that can be done in one building in Leiden, creating a healthy exploitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u5	It shouldn't be a word game. What's "a controlled bankruptcy"? Bankruptcy has never been controlled; therefore it is also a bankruptcy. D66 actually gives the directors a free pass to go their divine course from now on, without being able to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u6	I'm very distancing myself from that. My group's intention is to ensure good education. No parole is given here at all. I also believe that educational institutions should be able to go bankrupt. I would like to say to Mrs Lucas that it is possible to do so, as is evident from the documents on bankruptcy, in order to have a controlled bankruptcy by agreeing in advance a pre-pack, in particular guaranteeing the interests of students and employees. Apparently, that doesn't matter to the VVD here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. ROC Leiden goes bankrupt because of stupid past decisions and because of the inability to put things in order in time. The question before us is whether we are going to save another institution by transferring money from other schools to this rock. The VVD is drawing a line today, no matter how difficult that decision is. If we pull the wallet again, we're actually saying that an institution can't go bankrupt. For this licence to the sector, the VVD does not want to take responsibility, just as we do not want to sign for a scenario that was magical only last night and which we do not even know exactly what that looks like. That's why I'm tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the ROC Leiden has been hit in acute financial difficulties by naive and amateur investment in real estate;]] [[Whereas rescue of the ROC Leiden is at the expense of other institutions and this is only justified if this injection effectively leads to a sustainable solution for educational quality;]] [[Whereas the Minister has not been able to convince the House of this and is now sending money to the sector signaling that we must say that institutions can go bankrupt, but do not make that happen and thereby give drivers a free pass for malpractice;]] [[calls on the Government not to make additional funds available to the ROC Leiden and to prepare itself for the completion of its system of responsibility for the transfer of pupils so that they can continue their education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Lucas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33495-72]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u8	With a little more control here and a little research there, we're not gonna suddenly improve the governance culture. After the summer, we would like to continue our discussions with the Minister on more fundamental interventions in the governance and funding of the MBO. We propose to vote today on the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u9	I want to oppose the latter. There is no reason in this dossier to ask for a vote today. It is very important that we get reactions from the field on the motions and we have the opportunity to discuss this with each other. So I am opposed to voting today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mrs Lucas does, however, need the support of the majority of the Chamber to vote today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u11	I wholeheartedly support this point of order. The MBO sector has been in great uncertainty for far too long. It is stated that this week 18 million euros will have to be transferred to save the ROC Leiden. Mrs Lucas' motion calls for that money not to be transferred. I think it is very important that we vote on this today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u12	I fully endorse what Mr Rog said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u13	I suggest we vote on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u14	Of course, this has a certain urgency, but care is a matter of urgency. On Tuesday, voting will give everyone the opportunity to orient themselves a little more broadly. So Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u15	I would like to hear a response from the Minister, because I think it is crucial whether we vote today or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u16	Last night, in the debate, the Minister indicated that she wanted clarification to be given as soon as possible and that we would be voting on it this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u17	I wasn't at the debate. So I guess that's what was said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u18	Mr Van Dijk's argument, if I may fill that out for him, is that he fears that if we do not take a decision now, 18 million will be transferred with certainty for Tuesday. I think it is a good thing to remove that fear, because I have made sure at the Ministry that that fear can be removed. If that can remove his doubt...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u19	Oh, you are now going to answer Mr Van Dijk's question. So we're not going to go into that. Mr Van Dijk asked if the Minister would like to repeat what she has apparently already said. He does not want to support the request at this stage, but does not want to say that he will not. I will simply repeat the question of whether there should be a vote at the end of the VOC.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, in the Education Committee, we talked to the Minister about a diabolical dilemma: do you let the ROC Leiden go bankrupt in order to tackle, rightly, failing directors or do you give about 9,000 mbo's a helping hand? Students, teachers and employees must never be the victims of the mischief of these drivers. Of course, there's the will to be tough on drivers. At the same time, it would be irresponsible to realize this at the expense of all those people who are not responsible for this. It is incomprehensible that some colleagues now prefer to opt for bankruptcy and therefore allow the student, the employee and the teacher to suffer. Yesterday, I asked for an action plan to make it clear, step by step, how the quality of education is being improved, so not a blank cheque, but each tranche is accounted for. It is now important to pave the way for cooperation between regional training centres to improve the quality of education. I don't have a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u21	Mr. Chairman. After all these open doors of the Labour Party, which will have no effect at all, a motion will come from me. Those failing drivers, in this case also at the ROC Leiden, keep popping up everywhere; we have seen that in other cases. Apparently, in the educational province, it does not matter at all whether one is responsible for huge financial disasters with major consequences for staff and especially for students and students. My feeling is that there's a ghost play in that driver's elite of people who play each other the balls with nepotism and so on. I think it's time to get an insight into that. This case of the ROC Leiden is excellent for that. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the education sector differs from other branches when it comes to the appointment of directors who have caused major damage to previous positions due to mismanagement, as such teachers always reappear at other positions in other educational institutions in the country;]] [[Considering that such appointment process may indicate lack of integrity, conflict of interest and/or nepotism;]] [[Whereas there is a worrying lack of understanding of what the mores are in educational driver circles and what the personal connections and interests are;]] [[Considers that the study carried out by the ROC Leiden case will lead to an understanding of the functioning of the network of teachers;]] [[calls on the government, if necessary anonymised, to have a sociogram made of all relevant directors and supervisors of ROC Leiden,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33495-73]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u22	I have already informed Mr Beertema that I recognize the pattern. Indeed, there is a pack of drivers, so I have mentioned them before, which appears everywhere for inexplicable reasons. There are also many good drivers. I'm asking him to make it a little more general. He's talking about anonymizing, but that's not as natural as possible. If we limit it to this case, it really isn't anonymous; that's just impossible. I therefore ask him to consider broadening it and asking for a more general examination of the way in which appointments are made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u23	Then you can support the motion? That's what you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u24	Then I can support the motion. Now I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u25	I understand the balance, but it is of course well known how appointments take place. They seem very transparent, also because the participation councils that Mr Van Meenen always advocates are also involved. But of course that is not the case, because in advance selections are already made of the people who are or are not invited. There is a very shady game going on before there is a formal procedure. That's how these things work. It is arranged in the corridors and in the castles where the ladies and gentlemen meet all the time on all kinds of expensive courses they make up for each other. It does not make much sense to launch a wide-ranging investigation, because it is generally transparent enough. I am concerned that this case of a medium-sized rock is such beautiful study material. We can anonymize that investigation. For the insiders it may be clear who it is, but then there must be a bit of taking-and-shaming. I have no objection to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u26	You spoke a long time last night on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u27	But not about this. This is a completely new subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u28	I did not chair that meeting, and if you say so, I believe you. I'd like to ask you to limit yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u29	Again, we agree. I'm looking for the same patterns you're looking for. I am also opposed to shadowy pre-selection procedures. Let's expose that, right here in the Chamber, for once. The Chamber has to do that instead of just saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u30	Enough, Mr Van Meenen. Mr Beertema has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u31	I'd like to stick with this motion anyway. Mr Van Meenen is suggesting an interesting idea, and perhaps he should put together a motion on it himself. I just want to use this case to expose things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u32	Mr. Chairman. Students have been victims of misadministration at ROC Leiden for five years: megalomaniac real estate projects, shady investments and, worst of all, poor education. The financial mess is now so big that ROC Leiden is actually bankrupt. Five training courses must disappear because education is inadequate. The CDA regrets that the Minister has not previously used its influence to conduct a controlled bankruptcy, so that students and teachers are as little affected as possible by the malpractice of their directors and supervisors. The minister wants to save ROC Leiden with an amount of 40 million euros from other MBO institutions. According to the CDA, such a rescue is only justified if it is certain that it will be more financially viable for the MBO sector that should finance this rescue and will work out better for the students. The Minister has not convinced us of this. The uncertainty will continue and long-term bankruptcy is still possible, but the sector has already invested 18 million in ROC Leiden real estate and loans. I would like to thank the Minister for the attention she has given in her letter for small scale. I have prepared a motion to update the Minister in the letter she will send to the Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the problems of both ROC Amarantis and ROC Leiden show that large-scale MBO institutions can cause major problems and even medium-sized RCs are soon too big to fail;]] [[Whereas, in the event of a possible rescue operation by ROC Leiden, the other MBO institutions and the taxpayer must jointly bear the costs for the institution's re-launch and that this feels like a reward for bad behaviour;]] [[Whereas the increase in the scale of the supply of MBOs is putting increasing pressure on the pluralism of the supply of MBOs;]] [[calls on the government to include in the announced vision of the MBO coming in the autumn that by increasing scale institutions become "too big to fail," as well as the influence of the guards' fees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33495-74]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u33	Mr. Chairman. The ROC Leiden is a fiasco. Drivers have gambled with taxpayers' money and students and teachers are the victims. There are now two options. The first is letting the school go bankrupt, with the following risks: much higher costs, students and teachers who end up on the street and a curator who takes the lead instead of the Ministry of Education. The second option is the scenario of a start-up, which the Minister wants. This removes these concerns, but at the same time there is still great uncertainty. Is that a sustainable rescue plan? Is the EUR 40 million sufficient? My group would like to make a careful assessment of this. I have a motion and a question. First the question. I hear from the chairman that I have to make the motion first. That motion is about the real estate, which is the cause of the problem. I would ask if the Minister would seriously consider the possibilities for preventing megalomaniac real estate projects from damaging education in the future. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that students and teachers suffer from the enormous financial problems at ROC Leiden due to excessive real estate charges;]] [[Whereas this does not apply in primary and secondary education because these sectors do not have a housing component;]] [[Considers that there are several options for better separation of real estate and education, such as the possibility to require prior testing of real estate plans and the housing of the National Real Estate Company;]] [[calls on the Government to involve these options in the investigation of ROC Leiden,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33495-75]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u34	By the investigation, I mean the investigation of the Meurs Committee. My question is this. Will the Minister, if her scenario continues, inform us carefully about every step she takes, especially if the EUR 40 million is exceeded?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u35	Mr Van Dijk is delighted that he and his group are going to think carefully about what he is going to do. However, we have already had three debates in two weeks. What choice is the SP going to make? Will the SP decide to transfer 18 million euros to real estate entrepreneurs and banks this week or will the SP opt for education?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u36	This is a fair question from Mr Rog. I've outlined the dilemma in my input. We will soon hear the Minister's reaction to Mrs Lucas' motion, which is decisive. I shall listen to that and then discuss with my group what we have to say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u37	This brings to an end the term of office. The Minister has indicated that once she has the text of all motions, she will be able to reply. We're gonna wait for that for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u38	Mr. Chairman. We have indeed consulted extensively, so I would like to focus on the motions and not repeat parts of the debate. I'll start with the motion in part No. 71 by Mr Van Meenen, in which he invites the government to cut down the training offer by 2018, to transfer students and staff to institutions in the region and to maintain a core of good training, and to inform the Chamber thereof. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. This is in line with what we discussed last night. Although this is a diabolical dilemma, in the words of Mrs Jadnansing, I believe that this approach offers the best guarantees for the continuity of education, the drawing of lessons from this case and the otherwise organising of MBO in the region, with more cooperation and less competition for students and more focused on quality. I believe that Mr Van Meenen and I, as well as Mr Rog and I, continue to disagree as to whether a controlled bankruptcy would have been possible in this case. However, I agree with all the Members who have spoken about bankruptcy that we must continue to explore it. I should like to comment on the Van Meenen motion to the Chamber. In Mrs Lucas' motion to item No. 72 the government is invited not to make additional funds available to ROC Leiden and to take its system responsibility for the placement of pupils elsewhere so that they can continue their education. I advise against this motion. This will inevitably lead to bankruptcy on or just before 1 July. In order to prevent this, at least 18 million must be transferred before that date. That amount is intended for the continuity of education, so I say once again, and not for the bacon of the real estate parties. I therefore advise against this motion. I do not, moreover, share the view that this is a sign and that this kind of situation will always occur in the future. If I were to think so, I would be more positive about this motion. At ROC Leiden, however, we see that the terrible consequences have arisen from simply good intentions but also great naivety and ultimately also poor control by various sections. However, if this motion is passed, I am not going to transfer that money. By the way, I said that I think there should be clarity and that I should transfer those funds next week, at the end of next week. I have said that I am committed to the VAO being held this week. We do now. However, I say to the Chamber that I will not transfer 18 million to ROC Leiden before Tuesday afternoon, pending the debate in the Chamber. But then there has to be clarity. This means that I am calling for votes to be postponed at least on Tuesday. If the motion is adopted, it will of course lead to bankruptcy, and I will of course assume my system responsibility for transferring students elsewhere. Here's what I'm gonna say. We are talking about 8,500 students who have to be accommodated in other institutions during a holiday period. This is not a matter of course for teachers who have to be rehired, nor do they have to be rehired. The Chamber must therefore count on this to cause chaos and that this will not be a smooth process. I will do everything I can to prevent this, but I would like to have said this, so that we do not have a discussion in the summer about why there is a great chaos in the region of Leiden with students in the MBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u39	The Minister did the same last night. I called that "frightening." Of course, we realize there will be consequences if we don't transfer the money. Of course we realize that. We also assume that there are scenarios in the Ministry for how this should be handled. However, if the money is not transferred and that would indeed lead to bankruptcy, a curator will be appointed. He's gonna take care of things. The Minister holds her system responsibility and therefore has influence to ensure that pupils can move elsewhere as soon as possible. I think the picture the Minister sketches as if in the summer there are all students on the streets who can't get anywhere, exaggerated. I'd like to have said that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u40	We have also exchanged this extensively in the AO. In the event of bankruptcy, there will indeed be a curator, but that means I've lost my direction. In that case, too, I will of course do everything I can to help students to be accommodated elsewhere. However, that will be a huge operation, especially at a time when many people are on holiday. I cannot tell all the institutions in Leiden and the surrounding area and all the surrounding services that no one can leave the city during this period. It's just a difficult time to settle this, but I'll do everything I can, with all the resources I have, to guide it as best I can. Of course I'll prepare for the department, but I'll have to look at what a curator does.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u41	I am committed to saying this here, because we in this Chamber often say that a school should be able to go bankrupt. That is also the position of the cabinet. It was also in a letter. Of course it has big consequences; I understand that very well. However, if we consider the autonomy of education to be very important, and the VVD considers it important, we should ultimately be able to pay for their actions. That means a school must be able to go bankrupt. The Minister says that too, but in the meantime she gives all kinds of reasons why it can't be done. I believe that it is sending the wrong message to the sector. We do not want to take responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u42	Let me say to Mrs Lucas that I also believe that a school should be able to go bankrupt. That is also the line she received from the cabinet. I am responsible for the continuity of education and not for maintaining an institution. That means an institution must be able to go bankrupt. This is a different matter from saying that, in all cases where this balance has to be made, bankruptcy must go beyond guaranteeing the continuity of education. So I'm going to consider this particular case. I have already said that I would be happy to re-examine the discussion on system responsibility with my colleagues to see what we can learn from this case in order not to rule out bankruptcy in any case. In his motion in part No. 73 Mr Beertema asked the government to have a sociogram made of all the relevant directors and supervisors of ROC Leiden. I don't recommend that motion. I told the Chamber yesterday that I wanted to consider concrete actions and that I am looking at the debate that my colleagues from VWS have had. These include a register and accreditation of supervisors and directors. That seems to me to be more sensible than an investigation, after the research that took place last year on behalf of the director. That was a forensic investigation, for God's sake. That investigation has already been made public anonymized. So I'm not suggesting this motion. I think we have nothing more to add to that. I'll come to the motion in part No. 74, by Mr Rog. It invites the government to include in the announced vision of the MBO the increasing scale, which would make institutions too big to fail. I advise against this motion. I told the Chamber that I am prepared to send a letter in the autumn about the communities of MBO colleges. So that letter is not a vision of the MBO, but is specifically about MBO lectures. I would also like to inform the Chamber about the discussion with my colleagues about the lessons that we can draw from this case, as I have just said. Of course, that has everything to do with scale. We want small scale in the MBO. You can organize them in different ways. This discussion is part of the discussion about MBO lectures. I think that's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u43	I just want to make sure I understand the Minister correctly. I would like a view on the institutions that are too big to fail and on the influence of the guards' fees. That could be done in the letter the minister wants to send about the community of MBO colleges. Is the Minister willing to do that in that letter? I shall change the motion in such a way that we do so when the letter on the community of MBO lectures comes. Would the Minister's judgment on my motion be different?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u44	Yeah, well, then the judgment would be different. I have no objection to including in the letter on MBO lectures the question of scale and institutions that are too big to fail. That's part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u45	What about the guard fees?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u46	I don't know if I can take the waiting money problem into that. I have to look at what lessons I can draw from this case for the education sector and the other sectors. I would prefer this to be included in the commitment I made yesterday to Mr Van Meenen, namely to look with the members of the ministerial Committee on Public Interests in the Cabinet at what we are learning from this and whether there are reasons to look again specifically at the way in which we organized the guard fees. Mrs Lucas also spoke about the latter yesterday. I am therefore prepared to go back to that in the letter, but I cannot say whether I can give a complete answer to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u47	Then I'll change the operative part of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u48	I'll wait for that operative. It may well be that I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. I come to Mr Van Dijk's motion on item No. 75. This calls on the government to better separate the different options for real estate and education, such as the possibility to have pre-mandatory testing of real estate plans and to involve the housing of the Rijksvoastgoedbedrijf in the research on ROC Leiden. If I can understand the motion in such a way that Mr Van Dijk is referring to it, and I think I heard him say that this should be part of the investigation by the Meurs Committee into ROC Leiden, then I can leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. I would ask him to consider how we can gain more control over real estate and what ways there are to get more control of it in advance, rather than giving it to the Meurs Committee. That could involve it in the advice she's going to give me. Mr Van Dijk also asked whether 40 million would be sufficient. I have calculated, in all conscience, what is needed to ensure that education at ROC Leiden is of sufficient level. That's what calculations have been made by my department and external parties. They're worth 40 million. Afterwards, the inspection also indicated that 40 million should be sufficient. I have always said that I want to mention an amount which means that I do not have to come back to the Chamber to say that it is going to be more. I must be able to assume with certainty that it will not be. I therefore sincerely hope that it can be less. That is why I have now mentioned this amount of 40 million and not a lower amount where I would be at great risk of having to come back and say that there should be more. With everything I know now, I am telling Mr Van Dijk that I expect 40 million to be sufficient. That is based on the advice I have received from various quarters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u49	I had also asked whether the Minister would be prepared to inform the Chamber beforehand of his new financial contributions to ROC Leiden at every step she takes, in particular when it comes to giving new instalments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u50	I just got there. I'd like to be willing to do that with every tranche. It's 18 million now. A new tranche will follow in the autumn. Mr Van Meenen's motion asks the government to draw up a plan for 1 October. If that motion is adopted, I will, of course, send a letter to the Chamber before 1 October to draw up the Van Meenen motion. I will already mention what follow-up steps are ahead of us after 1 October and what resources are involved in this. Apart from that, I would like to assure Mr Van Dijck that I will inform the Chamber of each tranche of the funds on the state of play. That can also be after October 1st. I am left with a comment from Mr Rog. He says five schools are disappearing. I'd like to say that the exam license has been revoked. I say this because I think it is important for students that this does not mean that they will no longer receive education for these courses tomorrow. However, ROC Leiden must purchase licences for exams elsewhere and use them from other institutions. Students can still take their exams at ROC Leiden.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u51	That leaves me with the question of whether the request to vote today is still valid.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u52	I maintain my request to vote on this today. I would like to ask this particularly in view of the clarity that we want to give the teachers and students.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u53	That was not the question; the question was whether you maintain your request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u54	Support for the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u55	The Minister said it could be done on Tuesday. The question was, what's the deadline for that 18 million? I have no objection to voting on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u56	I maintain my request to vote on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u57	As far as I'm concerned, Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u58	No objection to Tuesday's votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u59	I think it is very important to vote today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u60	Mrs Lucas, your request has no majority in the Chamber. We shall be voting on this on Tuesday. I suggest that we proceed immediately with the VAO Aviation. Six speakers have spoken for this.
