ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u1	Seven speakers have spoken for this debate. Every Member has two minutes' speaking time, with the exception of Mr Klein, who has just informed me that he only needs half a minute. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State and colleagues. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. We have talked about the premium that is released because the ABP has decided that both employers' and employees' pensions contributions can be reduced. In the case of water boards, for example, the employees received this money directly in the form of a higher salary, but that did not happen in the government. That is why I propose the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that agreements have been made between public employers and public staff power stations on the ABP pension 2015 and the resulting reduction in contributions;]] [[Whereas the release of the employer's share of the pension premium is of great importance for purchasing power and the government as an employer has an exemplary role to play in this process;]] [[points out that the employer's freed-up premium must also be returned as soon as possible to the employees of the State,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-243]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u3	I'm surprised D66 now says it's about civil servants' contributions, but it was about a lot more, wasn't it? I thought it was about D66's broken promises. We have had a debate on reduced pension levels and on the big words of D66 that we would all be better off by reducing contributions significantly. We were able to pay off mortgages. On countless videos I can still see that input.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u4	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u5	That's not gonna end up in any way. D66, in particular, has left many younger people with worse pensions without paying a lower price. So we now have a worse pension at the same price. That's a very bad message, isn't it, to those young people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr Madlener is happy to repeat the debate. That is fine with me, because that gives me once again the opportunity to say that for most of the workers the pension premium has been reduced. We asked the Secretary of State in the consultation to give an idea of what the situation is with all the funds. Yes, it is very important that the premium goes down and that the Dutch Bank checks closely whether what happens to pension funds is fair to all participants, including young people. So that question has already been asked, and we already have that commitment. In addition, this motion specifically focuses on the pension premium at the ABP. It has been lowered, but Minister Blok has sat on those pennies and he should just give them back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u7	This small reduction in some pension funds or no reduction in many pension funds is not at all proportional to the much worse pension that many people now get thanks to D66. Mr Van Weyenberg denies that the premiums have not been reduced sufficiently. That was different during the general consultation, I can tell you. Has Mr Van Weyenberg received a new insight or is he now proclaiming lies?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u8	I think I will repeat what I said during the general consultation. For millions of people, the premium has been reduced, but it is true that many funds have not yet done so. I want to know what's going on with these funds, what's behind them, and if it's fair. That is exactly what the Secretary of State will report to the Chamber according to her commitment. I look forward to that with great interest and I think Mr Madlener is doing the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u9	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u10	In addition, the Secretary of State did not want to give any direction for the future of the pension debate. She also did not want to give her opinion after the very interesting ESC opinion in my opinion. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the abolition of the average contribution system and the introduction of personal pension funds have a prominent place in the draft opinion of the Economic and Social Council on the future of the pension system;]] [[Whereas these proposals address weaknesses in the current pension system, such as the lack of property rights and a lack of links with the changing labour market;]] [[calls on the government to include a prominent place in the forthcoming headline note for the abolition of the average contribution system and the introduction of personal pension cards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-244]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mr Van Weyenberg established a relationship between the content of the ESC report and the future discussion. That seems relevant to me. However, he does say the words "personal retirement" as if they were a separate scenario of the Economic and Social Council. I've read that report again. Those words aren't in there at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u12	No, but I think it's about personal pension assets. I call that "personal retirement pots"; people understand better what it's about. Because I like to speak clear language, so 'personal pension jars'. This makes people more in charge of their own pensions. I cannot imagine that Mrs Vermeij of the Labour Party does not think that is a good idea either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u13	So I have read this report well, and in particular the one scenario which Mr Van Weyenberg is referring to, but with all the nuances. The ESC talks about personal pension assets, actually personal pension structures, with risk-sharing, with a large collective element in them. It would be a good thing for Mr Van Weyenberg if he were able to put that nuance here as well. It really is a different story than just personal retirement pots.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u14	In my opinion, there are two variants in the ESC opinion that contain those personal retirement jars. One of them indeed has that collective risk sharing. Exactly how this is designed leaves the ESC open. For example, one of the variants also shares the longevity risk. That seems wise to me, but there are different flavors. However, this is about the impact. I think that the fundamental course, which is to make people more boss of their own pensions, is very important. As far as I am concerned, the Chamber should and could support that direction. Finally. In June 2013, D66 submitted a motion adopted by the Cabinet on the CPB's transfer of the plan of youth youth organisations Young Democrats, Young Socialists and the JOVD. We are now a year and a half further. I therefore ask the Secretary of State when she has given the order and when it is available.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. The first is on behalf of Mrs Schouten of the Christian Union. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the AOW no longer has a common household if the two-house rule is complied with;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that the two-house rule is also applied when someone with AOW enters into a "relation" with someone with ANW,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the decision of the European Central Bank to buy up sovereign debt artificially reduces interest rates;]] [[Whereas this has a serious negative impact on the coverage of pension funds, whereas actual returns are extremely positive;]] [[noting that pension funds' assets have increased from around 600 billion to around 1,200 billion since the start of the crisis;]] [[calls on the government to adjust the interest rate term structure so that the discounting of liabilities becomes less dependent on the ECB's monetary policy and more consistent with the results actually achieved by pension funds,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that government officials are entitled to 0.8% increase in wages due to the release of pension contributions due to the deterioration of the pension structure and after maximum repair within the new fiscal frameworks;]] [[Whereas the Government has undertaken to ensure that workers are entitled to unpaid pension contributions due to a deterioration in the level of pension provision;]] [[Whereas, therefore, this increase in salary is unconditional and should not therefore be part of the collective bargaining process;]] [[calls on the Government to pay immediately and unconditionally the pension premium released to the state officials,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ulenbelt and Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-245]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ulenbelt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-246]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ulenbelt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-247]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u16	I know Mr Ulenbelt as an activist parliamentarians, but with regard to relations. What we are discussing here relates to what we can do here. Whatever belongs at the collective agreement table belongs at the collective agreement table. I have heard several times that he considers the collective bargaining table to be high. Then how can he file this motion? It's not consistent with this. That is where the negotiations are taking place, and here we determine the framework conditions. Does he agree with me? There's no other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u17	That pension premium has been negotiated before. Why would you renegotiate a right that employees have acquired before? That is why it is not interference in the collective bargaining. It's more like mixing out, taking something outside the collective bargaining. What's really going on? Minister Blok wants to use 0.8%. He says if you don't do my way with other things, you won't get 0.8%. That's why it's not interference, it's mixing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u18	I note that Mr Ulenbelt still has two hats on and that he might be better placed to join the table as a collective bargaining negotiator. We agree on the goal. We've established that. It is, moreover, a measure which Mr Ulenbelt did not support at all. The reduction in pension contributions had to be achieved. That's what happened. It should go to the employees. However, the negotiations are not taking place in this house but at the collective bargaining table. I ask Mr Ulenbelt to respect the trade unions in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u19	I spoke with the trade union negotiator yesterday and he also believes that the 0.8% should remain outside the collective bargaining process. This motion calls for exactly the same thing. If you agree with the content, I expect the Labour Party to support the motion. It has also been screaming from the rooftops that the pension premium would go down and that it would be reflected in its wages. If you want to tell the honest story, you should support this motion so that it ends up directly in the wages of the state officials outside the collective bargaining process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr Ulenbelt's motion calls on the cabinet to do the same as I have just done with my motion. I'm using other words, but maybe we'll figure it out. I have one question. In the discussions we held, Mr Ulenbelt was rather uncomfortable when I proposed this and he gave a bit of counter gas. Is there any progressive understanding of the Socialist Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u21	I knew Mr Van Weyenberg would come up with this. During that general consultation, he deliberately created fog. Of course it has to go back to the workers. We have always said that, but preferably in retirement. However, a majority decision has been taken here which does not allow this to happen. Then it has to go back to the employees. In order to emphasise the clear position of the SP on this point, I myself tabled this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u22	The only fog came from Mr Ulenbelt, because in general consultation he simply refused to support it. I am very glad that he has now come to this new insight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u23	That's pertinently incorrect. I have always said that it has to be returned to the workers, either in pay or in additional retirement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u24	Mr. Chairman. We have had a general discussion on pensions in which a wide range of issues were raised. I'm glad the Secretary of State, the government, is going to look at the buy-back of small pensions in relation to the AOW partner bonus. When can we bring out reports about this, so that people are sure that the pay-off of their small pension before their retirement date is not offset by their income because of the AOW partner bonus? I have two more questions on the two rather prominent topics in the AA. First of all, I come to the discussion of the future. There is an interesting opinion from the ESC. That is what we are going to do. At what time does the Secretary of State intend to respond to this? My second question concerns the famous reduction of pension contributions at the ABP. The December 2013 letter provided nine conditions for a reduction in pension contributions. It's been met. The pension contribution has been reduced. That part of the agreement is indeed true, but it is true for a purpose. The aim was to increase wages for employees. Having heard what has been said in general consultation and having heard all the spokesmen in this house, I ask the Secretary of State whether she has already consulted or is going to enter into consultations to see to what extent the employer's share of the pension contribution actually comes back to the employees. We hope, of course, that this will happen as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u25	I am pleased that Mrs Vermeij agrees with the content of the motion I have just tabled. The only thing I don't understand is why she's now asking the Secretary of State this question. We already put her in the AO and she said, "Don't interfere." What is the conclusion that Mrs Vermeij draws from this? In the consultation, the Secretary of State did not promise that the money would be returned to the employees of the government as soon as possible, and I fear that we will now have the same answer. What conclusion does Mrs Vermeij draw from that answer? Why doesn't she just support the motion I just tabled?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u26	We're doing it right here in this house, and I think that's right. Moreover, I have listened very carefully and read the report....................................................................................................................................................................................................... There's got to be. However, she did not say that she would then do something about it. I'm gonna ask her what's going on. In this house we do not establish pension contributions and do not negotiate collective agreements. We all know that pension contributions are part of the collective bargaining process. I think that is a very good thing, and I support it as a Social Democrat. The collective agreement negotiations are stuck; I hope that they will come quickly. The employees' part has already come back to the civil servants, but the employers' part is part of it. We have all said: practice what you preach; government, you must set an example; we have passed a law on this. However, we do not have collective bargaining in this house; this is done in the consultation between employers and employees. That is why I will not support any motions on this subject. However, I do agree with what Mr Van Weyenberg says, namely that the employer's part belongs to employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u27	The Labour Party barks, but doesn't bite. The cabinet has already indicated that it will not now address the efforts of Mrs Vermeij, Mr Ulenbelt, myself and, in my view, many parties. It's on the table with the cabinet, and it could take months or a year. People do not get their money back, while you, I and many others have said: it is their money; it must be returned. So I say again: you bark, but don't bite. Why do you just let Minister Blok go ahead so that people can whistle at that money for months to come?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u28	If D66 were to bite, she would arrange it for all the parties, including all the other companies. We don't. That law doesn't quite cover that either. We are sticking to the frameworks here. We have adopted a law with a good cause, namely reduction of contributions and wage increases. In particular, we have called on the government to set an example. 50% of that agreement, or 75% of that agreement, if you wish, has been granted. This is not the case for the last part, namely the employer's share of the premium. I find that undesirable, but I am not negotiating here; that is happening elsewhere. However, I call on the government to ensure that this is done. I assume she will take that very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u29	This debate is, of course, not just about state officials. It is about millions of hard-working Dutch people who are all saddled with poor retirement, partly thanks to the Labour Party. For all those Dutch, the pension structure has deteriorated enormously. The Labour Party has made a strong commitment that the reduction in contributions would benefit workers. Does Mrs Vermeij think that this promise has been honoured at the moment, or does she think that a lot of pension funds have not sufficiently reduced the premium?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u30	I'll be very secure for a while. The very large pension funds have, for the most part, reduced pension contributions. That's good news, because that was the intention of that law. The extent to which this has been achieved in wage increases or in a better pension scheme is to be seen. The results of this evaluation will be available in the foreseeable future. I note that the large pension funds, both in the metal sector and in the healthcare sector, have indeed reduced the premiums as a result of this law. The same applies to the ABP. We await the evaluation, because we have not yet received the results, but this must result in a higher wage. This indeed means a better income for millions of Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u31	It is woolly language of the Labour Party, because the promise made here with great certainty when this measure had to be carried through the Chamber is now being failed. I would therefore ask the spokeswoman of the Labour Party once again whether her party is keeping its promise that contributions should fall to the same extent as the reduced pension level and that this reduction in contributions should be in favour of the workers. This applies not only to the government officials, but to all hardworking Dutchmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u32	It would adorn Mr Madlener if he also mentioned the facts. PME, PMT, PFZW and ABP are subject to a premium reduction. This applies to millions of Dutch people, to the majority of working Netherlands, and not only to the government officials. This is already the case in the metal sector, in care and in all sectors. Mr Madlener must therefore look carefully at what has happened. We are not talking about 4, we are talking about 200 pension funds, we are going to have 200 pension funds within a few weeks. I do not yet have that overview, nor do I have Mr Madlener. However, I note that the law has done what it is intended to do, namely to reduce the premium. Once again, where this reduction in contributions came from, it belongs to the negotiating area of employers and employees. We have, of course, called on trade unions to ensure that there is a higher wage. This is good for the economy, for the country and for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u33	Mrs Vermeij rightly refers to the letter of December which lays down the conditions for the reduction of the premium. Some of the reduction has indeed taken place and some of it has not. An analysis is being carried out and additional pressure should be applied on this point. However, with regard to the ABP, I think that is the following. This fund has made a reduction in its contribution and then it is logical that it will then be translated one-on-one into an increase in employees' wages. This means that there is no room for manoeuvre in negotiations. I therefore do not fully understand Mrs Vermeij's point. In December we said that we should do this and now she is hiding behind the idea that it is a negotiation result that must be achieved by the employers and employees, that is, by the unions together with the employers. That's weird, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u34	I would like to point out that we do not set wages in this house. We don't. We have adopted a pension law in this house in which, because we are all working longer, we have reduced the building-up rates accordingly. This means less premium and de facto that there is negotiation space or wage space under negotiation. Negotiations are not taking place in this house. They are taking place at the collective bargaining table, and that is a good thing. That's what employers and employees do. We are curious about the following. The intention of the law was higher wages. This is not the employee part, but the employer part of the reduced ABP premium is still stuck. That should go to employees. Let us not forget, however, that we define the frameworks here, and we have expressed wishes about what is to be done next with the area of pay, but we have not laid down them in legislation, so we have no control over them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u35	We do, of course, have control of the ABP. It is therefore also right that Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Ulenbelt have tabled motions on this subject. The government does have control over that. I do not understand why when you say that you want to ensure that the employers' part also directly benefits employees in the government and in education, you then say: now we have to get parties to negotiate it again. After all, negotiation always means surrendering. So it's much better that you just pass that part of the employer, the government in this regard, one-on-one straight to the employees. You wouldn't have to deal with negotiations and labour law positions, would you? Then, of course, you are completely unbelievable in the light of what was agreed in December on reducing the level of pension support. I didn't agree with that pension agreement, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u36	I note that Mr Klein agrees with the legislation that we have dealt with here, but that aside. I also note that, with these nine conditions, we have laid down conditions regarding the reduction of the pension premium. That is what is being done. And that's gonna give you a paycheck.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u37	I'd like to respond to this. Mrs Vermeij says that on second thought I agree with the legislation. That is absolutely not the case. But whoever says "A" has to say "B." And that is, of course, the case now. A is that we lower and B is...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u38	Mr Klein, you have made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u39	I say "A." That's what we've always said so far. From B, we have always said, in the debate and in the debate on legislation, that we call on all parties to turn it into wage space and into a higher wage. I keep doing that, and I will keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u40	Officials pay pension contributions for deferred wages. You can't do that anymore because of that weird law that's been filed. Then it should be converted into wages. That was the promise. It's Minister Blok's theft. Why does the PvdA support that theft? And if Mrs Vermeij does not want to call it theft, she has to acknowledge that Minister Blok is at least using it as a means of blackmail in the collective bargaining process. He says I want to pay that 0.8%, but then you have to do this, this, this and this. Theft and blackmail, the Labour Party cannot do that!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u41	Mr Ulenbelt is extremely inconsistent on two fronts. First of all, he didn't think that space should go to pay. He's always argued that that space should go to retirement. Secondly, he considers the negotiations on wage accommodation to be very high. Whatever my personal views, these negotiations don't happen to the interrupt microphone here. They are held at the collective bargaining table. My bet is clip-and-ready. I think we are on exactly the same side. We want a higher wage. That is what I have just heard Mr Ulenbelt say. This should be the aim of the employer. That is not Secretary of State Klijnsma, but that is Minister Blok. If Mr Ulenbelt wants to talk about this, we should do so with Minister Blok. I don't want that. It's happening at the collective bargaining table. I have every confidence that the trade unions will do their job. They know themselves supported by a majority in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u42	It was a bad law, but it's there now. And that should not lead to theft of employees. That's what Blok is doing right now. I call on the Labour Party to support Van Weyenberg's and me's motion. There is a clear message to the cabinet: stop the theft of Blok and just give it to the people who already had it. And negotiate! Oh, my God, that's the reverse negotiation we know so well from the Labour Party! You already had it, and then you have to renegotiate it, at the risk of losing it. Mrs. Vermeij, come on! Just give the money back to those people!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u43	I note that Mr Ulenbelt would like to sit at the negotiating table as a collective bargaining negotiator. That's his right. He could do that. However, he cannot do that as a representative of the people in this house. There's no question of anything. There is a certain amount at the employer's disposal. My commitment is to make sure that money goes to the employees. I think that is also Mr Ulenbelt's commitment. That's what we're trying to achieve by talking about it here. I assume the unions are man enough to negotiate that out. And that's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u44	Mr. Chairman. Several subjects were discussed during the general consultation. My group welcomes the effect of improving the legal framework of the premium agreements, thereby creating greater flexibility and, for example, by investing in the benefit phase, more room is being created to increase the pension of individual members. I look forward to the results that will come to the Chamber before the summer. During the general consultation, we also discussed the ESC's opinion on the future of the pension system. In the report, the ESC advocates a more individualised pension scheme. That's an interesting direction. The VVD considers it important to conduct the debate quickly on the future of the pension system, a system with freedom of choice for both the employer and the employee, a system that is more consistent with the dynamic labour market. After all, we don't work for the same employer for 40 years anymore. During the debate, the Secretary of State promised that she would outline a number of scenarios and options without taboos and without fear of breaking existing institutions, with the SER report as an important building block. My group is looking forward to this debate. I don't have a motion to confirm it again. I made the call. I was given a promise to that effect. I look forward to the headline letter that was promised before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u45	Mr. Chairman. The VVD also fails completely in the pension file, as we are used to from her. A lot of promises and little giving, makes the madmen live in joy. But Dutch people are not crazy, because Dutch people know that this cabinet has partly taken away their pensions and require lower contributions. That's a promise, too. I will read out a piece from a letter from the Cabinet, which the PvdA and the VVD would also agree: "For balanced generation effects, it is essential that the adaptation of the Witteveen framework leads to a reduction in actual premiums as fewer pension rights will also be built up." "Adjustment of the Witteveen Framework" therefore means the reduction in pension structure. Next, the letter states: "Continuing a reduction in the premium in a higher wage also means that participants will have more free spending space for their own savings, mortgage repayment and other expenses, which can support economic recovery." We have been promised this, but little will come of it. I wonder what the Secretary of State will say to that. She has promised that there will be an evaluation, but I want to hear that this promise offers guarantees for the Dutch who have a worse pension. This should therefore be replaced by a lower premium. I have a motion on that, too. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the cabinet has drastically reduced the tax-free pension structure;]] [[Whereas, according to the Cabinet, this reduction in pension structure would lead to lower pension contributions;]] [[calls on the Government to fulfil its commitment to lower pension contributions and to ensure that this reduction is fully beneficial to employees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-248]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u46	Finally, I would like to say that, of course, this is not just about state officials. That of the government officials is an interesting point because the cabinet itself is about it. But it's all the Dutch that are building up their pension. That's almost all working Dutch. They are all faced with a worse retirement. For this reason, a higher net wage should be paid for all employees. I wonder what the Secretary of State will say to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u47	Mr. President, it was 10 seconds away. Yeah, I gotta keep an eye on my seconds right now. For the sake of clarity, I would like to refer to the Financial Daily of 27 January 2015, which explained that a lot of pension funds do not make this reduction. In fact, three quarters don't work and a quarter do. Then we can be happy with that one quarter, but it's about the other three quarters. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the pension agreement provided for guarantees to ensure that lower pension levels would also lead to lower contributions;]] [[Whereas this year, in the case of three quarters of the sectoral pension funds which had to reduce the level of the building-up, the premium did not actually fall;]] [[whereas this amounts to nearly 1 million workers who do not now benefit from a higher net wage promised to them;]] [[Whereas this is bad for purchasing power and hampers economic recovery;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with DNB, to intervene if the occupational pension funds do not adjust their pension contributions in accordance with the agreements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-249]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u48	Minus 30. Well, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u49	Yeah, you made it. I call Mr Krol of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u50	Mr. Chairman. It's always refreshing to see a new face on the chair. I only have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that market interest rates are historically low as a result of the economic situation and the targeted policies of the European Central Bank;]] [[Whereas the exceptionally low interest rates, and the determination of the policy coverage rate based on 12-month risk-free interest rate intermediation, result in low levels of coverage for pension funds at an accounting rate of less than 2%;]] [[Whereas the declining interest rate is now significantly lower than the average return achieved by equity funds over the last few centuries of 4 to 5%;]] [[whereas the assets of joint pension funds are now greater than ever, but at the same time, due to strict accounting rules and the current accounting rate for pension liabilities, the chances of indexing and catching-up indexing for active members (young people) and pensioners (older people) are less than ever;]] [[calls on the government to weigh more heavily realised and expected returns from pension funds in order to establish a more real accounting rate for pension liabilities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-250]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u51	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the Chamber's term. The Secretary of State has indicated that he can reply immediately, but we are still waiting for the final motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u52	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u53	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of your Chamber for their contributions to this VAO. It seems to me that it would be good for the debate to respond to the motions by spokesperson. Mr Van Weyenberg took the beginning. He has tabled a motion on the employer's part of the pension contribution. That is actually the guiding principle of this morning, I have to say. I have already said in the debate that the Netherlands Bank will provide insight into the pension contributions at the end of February. I will send that piece to the Chamber at the beginning of March. I would like to stress once again that the debate has already shown that the largest pension funds have actually reduced premiums. This means, for the majority of Dutch people, that this also comes back to the paycheck. The debate focuses on the question of what is happening to the employers' section. We have already had an exchange of views on this in general consultation. In this debate, but also in this VOC, the emphasis was placed on that 0.8%. It seems very clear to me that it is also being deliberated on the collective bargaining tables, if I may put it this way. My colleague, who will be making the employer's voice heard, also has that in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u54	That's all just too vague for me. The Secretary of State has this in mind, but in Mr Ulenbelt's motion and in my own, the government is being asked to give that money back immediately. The PvdA indicated that this should be the bet. My question to the Secretary of State is: does she think, after all the agreements the Chamber has made with her on setting an example to the government, that the premium should be returned immediately? Do I understand that Minister Blok has promised to do so immediately? She just said that the Minister had this in mind. I wonder, of course, what he's going to do with that knowledge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u55	Just as right in the doctrine: I would advise against the motion before us and Mr Ulenbelt's, too, because it is workers and employers who see what happens to the freed-up part of the ABP premium. It is therefore mainly about how this 0.8% is taken into account in wages. This is part of the collective bargaining process. The choice is really a matter for the Minister for Housing and National Service. That is my colleague, Mr Blok, who is the employer. He talks to the unions about wage developments at the Empire. On that basis, I advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u56	I can actually hear the Secretary of State say: I fully agree, but these officials must be patient until the collective agreement is concluded at some point. So she is not going to make any effort to get the money straight back, as promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u57	I am very keen to stress that I take collective bargaining seriously, both in terms of employees' and employers' shares. This means that this should be done on that table in an orderly manner. We are not going to prelude to that now, in this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u58	That 0.8% doesn't belong on the collective bargaining table, does it? The money was from employees and it has to go back to employees. We know the percentage. Why is the Secretary of State acting like a partner in the crime of Minister Blok? Why does she justify this theft?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u59	I am very serious when I say that it is precisely on the collective agreement table that this sort of thing needs to be cut. That makes sense as I don't know what. I am sorry, but the Chamber or the Secretary of State of SZW are of course not the partners there. There are other partners and they know damn well that is a big good, let me stress that the space of 0.8% is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u60	That space isn't there, the money was already from employees and it's supposed to go back to employees. That's what the Secretary of State has always said. Then it makes sense to say to Minister Blok: put it immediately into wages, continue to negotiate the collective agreement and take it 0.8% off the table. It was supposed to be in wages, and that's where it's supposed to stay. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u61	I do like Mr Ulenbelt to put it this way, but I think we should take our partners seriously. The employers' share of the reduction in contributions should simply be discussed at that table.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u62	I can't quite understand it anyway. The government is represented by the government. The government is one whole, and we had a little discussion about that yesterday. This means that Secretary of State Klijnsma and Minister Blok belong to one and the same cabinet. So they also speak with one voice and have one commitment on all subjects that society considers important. The same applies to this subject. The Secretary of State, the Chamber and the Cabinet have indicated that the reduction in pension contributions will also lead to an increase in employees' wages. That's the 0.8%. Doesn't it make sense that this happens one-on-one? Then the Secretary of State shouldn't say it's another partner who does. It's the same cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u63	Mr Klein is really hitting the nail on the head with this. The cabinet also speaks with one mouth. Edoch, as twenty types in the cabinet, we have divided our duties. We have noted that there is room in the employers' part of 0.8%. My colleague, who is responsible for this, is going to put that on the collective agreement table and then negotiate it neatly at the collective agreement table. We speak with one voice and Mr Blok is the one who sits at the collective bargaining table.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u64	Short, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u65	Very briefly. May I conclude, therefore, that all the types in the cabinet are now aligned...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u66	Oh, yeah!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u67	... and that means that Mr Blok will indicate that the 0.8% goes to the workers as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u68	That's just a step too excited. I have indicated that Mr Blok is simply taking 0.8% to the collective agreement table and that is always the way it is, so that is nothing new at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u69	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u70	Then I come to the second motion on the D66 side, in which the government is asked, and of course we have already discussed this in the debate in order to sort out how the cabinet responds to the ESC opinion. For the sake of clarity, the ESC opinion has not yet been formally published. I know the partners within the ESC are now going back to their supporters. They intend to formally present the ESC opinion to the Cabinet at the end of February. I have always said that I would very much like to include this opinion, along with much more input, in my main paper. I would like to make use of that and that headline paper will be published in May. In it, the cabinet indicates how it wants to deal with the pension discussion. By the way, it's nice that D66 is so involved in the pension discussion. There was another question from Mr Van Weyenberg about the plan that the youth organizations have sent me. I firmly intend, when we have presented the main paper, to have a number of things passed on to the CPB, including this plan of youth organisations. By the way, I already promised them that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u71	Let's talk about the motion. Do I understand now that the Secretary of State is asking me to hold that motion so that she can establish a position when the ESC opinion becomes final? In my view, the pre-opinion remained somewhat unclear, I would like to say to you, Mr President. I have one other question. I have always understood that there will be a headline note with very concrete variants. So I have always assumed that all the mathematics were done prior to that outline paper. Do I understand the Secretary of State now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u72	As far as the motion is concerned, I will say very neatly that I formally advise against it. I also mention how I deal with the ESC opinion in the main paper. So right now, that motion is really very premature and that's why I'm not advising her. As far as the calculation is concerned, the variants outlined in the main note are, of course, taken into account. I also think that the youth variety is one of the variants, if you don't mind my saying so. So it is also passed on by the CPB.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u73	My question at the last point was whether these transfers are already in the main paper that we get in the spring. Because that's what I'm assuming. If they don't come until after, it's gonna take a lot longer. As far as my motion is concerned, I am not asking the Secretary of State to opt for personal pension cards now, although I would like that very much. I also listened to the Secretary of State last week. I would ask her to give a prominent place in the main note for the abolition of the average premium and for personal pension cards. That's a slightly different request from the Secretary of State's response. Maybe she can go into that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u74	I'm not doing that right now. We have, of course, already dealt with this in our AO. I really think that's too soon. First of all, I would like to await the formal ESC opinion, and I would like to show the government's commitment in the main paper. In doing so, I think I have dealt with both Mr Van Weyenberg's motions and answered his supplementary questions. Then I come to Mr Ulenbelt. He filed a motion in part No. 245, in which he asks the government to apply the two-house rule to someone with an AOW who has a relationship with someone with an Anw benefit. I have already said a few things about this during the AO. I do not recommend this motion because it is apparently an Anw'er who has a joint household with an AOW'er, but does not live together. The motion implies that the two-house rule will apply only to one specific group of ANW beneficiaries, namely those who run a joint household with an AOW beneficiary. I think that is undesirable because I think that the two-house rule should only apply in the AOW. That is where the two-house rule only affects the amount of the benefit. People keep 70% instead of 50% of the benefit. In the ANW it is a question of entitlement to a benefit. Moreover, the introduction of the two-house rule for only one specific group in the ANW could be a precedent for other benefit schemes such as assistance. I think these consequences are undesirable. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u75	What a cold and cold reasoning. Let's see who this is about. Someone with AOW somehow gets a relationship with someone with a survivor's benefit. You should applaud that. The AOW'er wouldn't live together in this case, but to the lady with ANW.. usually it's a Mrs....................................................................................................................................................... Secretary of State, let your heart speak. If people find a relationship but both partners do have their own home, you should not immediately take away their benefit. This is about humanity, not cold, cold, tough rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u76	Mr Ulenbelt and I found each other when we were talking about the two-house scheme for the AOW. For this we received great support in the Lower House. In my view, the scheme was even unanimously supported. We've done that to provide clarity for all AOWs. However, I do not consider this to be the case with the ANW. The AOW was really about the amount of the benefit. People who went "living together under two roofs" were cut short. Their benefit went from 70% to 50%. However, the right to benefit is at issue in the ANW. I am very committed to just keeping that clarity straight. I therefore advise against Mr Ulenbelt's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u77	I know all about the history of that two-house arrangement. It took years to get that settled. So now we find ourselves in a situation where someone with an ANW benefit coming on the floor with someone with AOW comes to the SVB at some point and says: you go there too often, so your ANW benefit is withdrawn. Humanly speaking, it is to be welcomed that people with AOW or ANW meet on the floor, but the benefit is withdrawn. That's not supposed to happen, is it? It is true that this is about reducing the benefit. It goes from about €900 to zero. So, Secretary of State, avoid any problems and don't dissuade this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u78	I think I've said enough about it. This is really another way of flying. That's why I'm sticking to dissuading this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u79	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u80	I come to Mr Ulenbelt's motion on item No. 246. It calls on the government to adjust the interest rate term structure. This motion contains a great deal of the motion tabled by Mr Krol. We have just completed the discussion on this in the context of the Financial Review Framework Bill. I therefore advise against this motion, because thanks to the ftk, of course, the situation is no longer dependent on daily rates. The recovery plan system provides sufficient stabilising elements. So I think that's very clear. On the motion in part No. In fact, I have already referred to Mr Van Weyenberg's motion. It won't surprise the Chamber that I'm also dissuading this motion. Mrs Vermeij asked me when I would like to clarify how small pensions are to be paid off in the context of the partner payment. I have promised to examine very carefully whether and in what way a small retirement allowance will no longer be reduced. I'm working on it and I'll let the Chamber know how I handle it in March. In my view, I have already given sufficient attention to Mrs Vermeij's questions about the future debate and the employers' part. Mrs Lodders has once again called on me to look at the different scenarios without taboos and to outline them. I would, of course, like to do so in the outline letter. Mr Madlener has the motion in part No. 248. This motion concerns pension contributions and actually has the same effect as the other motions. So I also advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u81	This motion by the PVV refers to the promises made by the cabinet itself. I just read a piece of a letter the Secretary of State sent to the Chamber. It makes firm promises and almost guarantees that these reduced pension contributions will benefit the purchasing power of the employee. In fact, this pension contribution is a secondary condition of employment, both for employees and employers. Does the Secretary of State consider that the reduced employer's contribution should be of full benefit to the workers or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u82	We are now going to repeat the debate. I have said that Mr Blok will, of course, raise this issue in order at the collective bargaining table. Mr Madlener has a point to make when he says that all this has to do with the development of wages. That's why it belongs on that collective bargaining table. That's where we have to put it. I shall therefore remain silent on the motion in part No. 248.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u83	This brings the Secretary of State back to an earlier promise, namely that that premium will indeed end up with the workers. That's hard for me. We have discussed these bad plans here with great words. The Secretary of State has guided these plans through the Chamber, with the support of D66, I say again. In addition, it has been promised that at least this reduction in the premium will benefit purchasing power. Now that turns out to be an empty promise, because it's not about it. I find that a very strange reasoning, but that is how we know the cabinet: unreliable and selling tubers for lemons.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u84	This cabinet takes its partners very seriously. It would be very strange for the cabinet to skip the collective bargaining table. That's far from me. I must also note that the majority of the Dutch have seen the reduction in their contributions on the pay slip in the form of a wage increase. As I said during the AO, my associates, my supporters, could also show me. I am therefore very keen to put this image in a different way as Mr Madlener is doing now. I'm getting to the motion on part No. Mr Klein. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Klein on his excellent We have agreed the guarantees in the debate and these guarantees are also respected. I would advise against this motion, because this motion calls on the government to intervene if the occupational pension funds do not adjust their contributions in accordance with the agreements. However, that is up to the pension funds themselves, in the context of the guarantees that have been agreed. That doesn't mean you're gonna interfere with overnight. The last motion has been tabled by Mr Krol and has the text No. 250. That motion is very similar to the motion in part No. 246. Mr Krol asked the government "to weigh more heavily in determining a more real calculation rate for pension liabilities, realised and expected returns from pension funds." We have already exchanged many words on this in the context of the ftk, both in writing and orally. I advise against this motion because it is all well secured in the context of the ftk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-3.u85	I thank the Secretary of State. The votes on the motions will take place next Tuesday.
