ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u1	We have seven participants on the side of the Chamber. Most speakers have reserved ten minutes for their contributions, but Mrs Siderius of the SP is going to gas us in no less than twenty minutes. I would point out that you are all supposed to be using Dutch tonight. I almost forgot to welcome the Secretary of State. However, he was here earlier today, so it doesn't really have to be by the rules. However, you are most welcome, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u2	Mr. Chairman. I don't think I need those 20 minutes. The bill for multilingualism at primary school looks very sympathetic. The general idea is that small children are the easiest to learn a language, and that is why we do well to stop toddlers, preferably as early as possible, completely full of knowledge, skills and languages. "Learned early, done old" is the proverb. But are we doing the right thing? I think that's the question that's on the table tonight. It is striking that the bill focuses mainly on the argument "The Netherlands as a trading nation." The main motive for teaching English, German or French in primary school is based on economic motives. Our main trading partners speak English, German or French and in the long term Dutch employees can act competitively with other international workers. If it's up to the cabinet, children from four years of age will be soaked as quickly as possible by the idea that they have to produce something, that they have to be excellent and that education is a competition, rather than an opportunity to develop as a child. It is not for nothing that primary education is not focused on vocational orientation, but on development. I would therefore like to hear from the Secretary of State tonight why we are filling toddlers with knowledge that they may never need at an early age. I'm here to give a quote from Professor of Educational Sociology, Jaap Dronkers. He says in an article in the Volkskrant: "The creeping bilingualism reinforces the contrast between higher middle classes, which are increasingly using English as a daily language, versus localized lower classes, who are already having difficulty learning their own language properly." I would like a response from the Secretary of State to that statement. Should we stimulate the division in Dutch education by meeting a select group of pupils who want to move on the international labour market at a later age, whereas that group is the one who quickly and adequately masters English in secondary schools? Shouldn't we focus more on the children who are lagging behind in language learning, so that they get on an equal footing with children without language retardation? The Secretary of State takes the view that the most is won by offering space for early foreign language education (vto). If such a statement is involved, the SP expects hard and convincing evidence. But even on a proper search, that evidence didn't turn out to be there. We read about a lot of enthusiasm and many positive reactions in research into the schools that are already working on this early foreign language education. However, no study has been carried out on the effects on the language skills of foreign language pupils. At least that's amazing. It also appears that the differences between pupils are often mentioned as a stumbling block, especially in half the schools. The differences between cognitive abilities, between individual children and the large differences in the home situation make it difficult for teachers to give instructions. The effects of these differences have also not been investigated in this pilot. There seems to be scientific consensus that getting up to four lessons per week in a foreign language does little harm to the mother tongue. It is unclear what the effects are for children with language retardation. These include, for example, students who do not speak Dutch as a native language or students with dyslexia, who have difficulty learning a new language. No research has been carried out on whether this also applies to children who have difficulty with school courses and Dutch, for example because another language is spoken at home. Research by the University of Groningen and Utrecht University into the effects of immigrant children did not come out because there was insufficient response from parents. Can the Secretary of State assure us tonight that it is also true for the less good students specifically that it does not harm the learning of Dutch? Then I am talking about students who are less likely to master courses and students who are lagging behind in their language skills. And if the Secretary of State can guarantee that tonight, what is that based on? Moreover, it is also questionable that students of ethnic origin should no longer receive education in their mother tongue, as this would disrupt Dutch language development. Doesn't this apply to English? Has that been investigated? Bilingualism in education might still be acceptable if the mastery of the Dutch language were to be good. But time and time again simple keys show that control is not so good in the Netherlands. To introduce bilingualism, Dutch will first have to be in order and that takes time and money. We will now spend that money on other types of education. Does the Secretary of State share the view that the level of Dutch needs to be greatly improved before bilingualism is introduced into education? Then I would like to say something about the effects on learning the foreign language itself. If so strongly deployed, the SP fraction also expects overwhelming evidence. To be honest, it's really not overwhelming, because there are some scientists who have measured benefits, especially in terms of pronunciation, vocabulary and grammar tests, but there are also votes against. The Swiss linguist Simone Pfenninger of the University of Zurich comes to the preliminary conclusion that learning a second language is not a clear advantage compared to acquiring a foreign language at a later age. In the 2013 European Journal Of Developmental Psychology, scientists write that while there is progress in some areas, there is limited knowledge of the advantage for students learning a second language at school. Also the conclusion of the Expertise Centre on Modern Foreign Languages is that the advantage of extra lessons in early foreign language education is insufficient to allow early start-ups to perform better than late start-ups during the school curriculum. In other words, the advantage of early starters, who received more hours of teaching at a young age, does not outweigh the advantage of late starters. Children who start learning a foreign language at a later age are then a little more cognitively developed. So there's still some noise on the line. What will the Secretary of State do with the information of these scientists? How does he judge and interpret this? We also have concerns about the position of teachers. What do we do with a staff member who has trouble with English, French or German, but who does teach excellently in Dutch and is in permanent service? Will the schoolmaster be able to demand that teacher to be able to teach in English, French or German? My group is certainly not convinced yet. That is why I have a number of questions to ask. The most important question is, of course, whether time, money and efforts are being used properly here. Wouldn't focusing on good English education on the pabo be much more effective, so that the level of English in groups 7 and 8 is strengthened? Is it not a danger that the frontrunners with teachers who can handle this will still come out fairly well, but this is not the case in other schools? This can lead to differences in the quality of education. How do we deal with that? Finally, does the level of incoming secondary education not vary too much? How does the Secretary of State calculate that? For the moment, my group is wondering whether we are not in the process of taking part in a hype for more English lessons in primary school today. It's remarkable that I haven't had any reactions from parents or from schools to this bill. Are we not doing something here that benefits the good learner in particular, while children from families with a poor socio-economic position or from low-educated parents are falling short again? And don't we degrade the subject of Dutch at school?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u3	You have only made up eight out of twenty minutes, but then we have some time left, including for Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u4	We're gonna fill it up now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u5	Oh, dear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u6	Mrs Siderius finds it worrying that there are differences between children when they leave primary education and that this bill could increase them. But is it not also the intention of the SP to focus much more on the talents of children in primary education, so that children will indeed leave primary education more and more at different levels? Shouldn't we look at how we're going to approach that instead of trying to prevent it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u7	We must try as much as possible to get what is inside of every child. But do we not fail children with a language disadvantage if we already start teaching English in groups 4 or 3? Suppose you have trouble with math, your math is given in English and you don't understand anything about it. Don't you think you're gonna be further behind? That is an important question for the SP. We do not want children to fall further behind by this bill, while children who may be able to learn well and are also good languages will have the opportunity to work up. The differences make it very difficult. Yesterday I was at an elementary school in North Holland. Then I asked, how do you look at this bill? That's what the principal said. Well, that's kind of hard, 'cause I'm getting all kinds of different kids in. One child will be able to handle it, the other one won't. So I have to make different groups and different schedules. We're a growing school, we're already growing out of our jacket. How am I supposed to practically organize that with different locals? So this bill has some side effects. First of all, we want to examine the effects of this bill on the language skills of pupils.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u8	This is a special reasoning of the SP. She actually says: let us not offer it to the children who can handle it, because then those differences will become greater. So these kids can't have it because then the differences increase with the kids who can't handle it. That's how I understand SP. What is left of responding to the differences in talents that exist between children? That talent may as well be in the field of language. Does Mrs Siderius agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u9	Absolutely, but there is a good chance that we will greatly increase the division in education through this bill. That's why I mentioned the professor. The problem is that there is no proper investigation of the results of that pilot. Mr Van Meenen will have seen that too: it is an experience result. That's what they call it. Then they ask teachers: did you like it and enjoy it? They'll say, "Yeah." People are enthusiastic, but nothing can be said about what it has done for the language skills of students. I have quoted a number of studies, not from the Netherlands but from other countries, which show that it is only the question of whether the early provision of foreign languages in primary education, for example from Group 3, will have an effect. Unfortunately, we do not have a Dutch study. That would be very useful if we were to have this debate properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u10	Mrs Siderius said: I have heard from no one, no parent and no school, that this meets any need. But where was she when we had the round table on this subject where several of these schools were present?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u11	I remember that very well. Then I had another debate in this Chamber and unfortunately I cannot split up. And yes, the SP group does not yet have 40 seats like the VVD, or no matter how many there are in the meantime; there are a few less. We have 15 seats. I really can't split up. I would have liked to have been there, but it didn't work out. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u12	I cannot escape the impression that Mrs Siderius has not read the contributions of the people who were there either. They were simply provided to everyone through our information system. They are also the basis for the dossier of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u13	Tomorrow we will have an important debate on disabled children. I find it amazing how many e-mails, letters and phone calls I have had about this from parents, educational institutions and civil society organisations that are concerned. I've had zero e-mails about this bill. I think that's really special. Then I wonder whether this meets a need and whether we should give priority to this. Moreover, I have listened to my ear and put out my own antennae. I was just telling you about that elementary school where I was yesterday. The director said: there is no research, it is unclear what it means for the language skills of students. I am therefore very concerned whether this actually meets a need and whether this is the most important thing we should do for primary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u14	Mr. Chairman. I'm going to go into that last point anyway. It is a special argument that if there are a lot of reactions to a debate such as tomorrow's on vulnerable children, then there are concerns, but that, if there are no reactions, there is apparently a sign for the SP that there is no need for them. You could also say that it seems to be fine. If they were worried about it, they would undoubtedly be able to find you. But that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u15	And by you, I'm sure you don't mean me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u16	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u17	You always know where to find me. I understand that we are continuing the interrupting debate we have just had, but the positions have changed. It's possible. I would ask Mrs Siderius to reply briefly and pointlessly so that Mr Van Meenen can begin his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u18	I may have said that there is no need, but I meant the following. When I told that elementary school director yesterday that we were going to deal with this subject tonight, he asked: what is that really about? Apparently it is not known at all and there are no people knocking on our door with the announcement: this has yet to be done tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u19	Clear, noted. Mr Van Meenen will begin his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u20	Mr. Chairman. We live for the first time in history in a truly global world. I know that some people in this Chamber would rather not see it that way, but it is. The same applies to the Netherlands. We do business with virtually every country in the world. We get 33% of our income from abroad. 44% of employees work at exporting companies and 15% of Dutch workers work at a foreign company. Our students and students are also reaping the benefits of this. They study, internship, travel and work all over the world. Knowledge of several foreign languages is therefore becoming increasingly important for students to develop their talent and find a job. In addition, a recent British study shows that people who speak two languages fluently look at the world in two ways and are better able to relate their worldview. My group therefore welcomes this bill which allows schools to give 15% of their teaching time in a foreign language. That's a good first step. But as far as I'm concerned, things aren't moving fast and far enough. I would like to give schools and parents much more space and confidence to achieve a good percentage of education time. This can have many advantages, especially in border areas. Last week the German-Dutch Chamber of Commerce came up with a study showing that Dutch industry pays a high price for the lack of control of the German language. Entrepreneurs miss billions because of the lack of knowledge of German. Almost 90% of companies said that mastery of German language is necessary for the export of goods and services to Germany. More than half said that their German relations did not accept English as a communication language. There are also many opportunities for workers to work across borders, for example in East Groningen. There the unemployment rate is about 15%, but on the other side of the border, in the Land of Niedersachsen, unemployment is only half. I am not saying all this because I believe that education serves no other purpose than the economy. However, we must not close our eyes to the fact that the opportunities for finding traineeships and good work are part of the opportunities we offer our young people. I would like schools to be able to determine that percentage themselves, with a maximum of 50%. Perhaps there is no majority for that, given the pilot bilingual education. Is the Secretary of State prepared to increase that percentage in the General Measure at least to 30, so that schools have a little more flexibility? However, I prefer 50% as a maximum. Or is the Secretary of State prepared to allow schools to deviate from that 15% by means of the "pass or explain" principle and with the consent of the co-determination council? Why do we have to impose the same standard on all schools in the Netherlands from The Hague? In my view, schools, teachers and parents are quite capable of taking well-balanced decisions on this matter. International research shows that a higher percentage of foreign language education does not have a negative impact on the development of the mother tongue, but positive effects on the development of the foreign language. The results of the pilot bilingual primary education are still pending until 2019. That's gonna take a long time. After that, schools still need a lot of time and effort to acquire teaching materials and train their teachers. This also applies to schools that want to offer education in a foreigner up to 15% of the time with this bill. Is the Secretary of State prepared to actively inform and support schools so that they can actually take this step? The Secretary of State points out that schools themselves must make investments through the lumpsum. However, I wonder whether schools have sufficient resources to take that step. The plan of approach for English in primary education states that schools also have access to a start-up grant. Does that also apply to German or French? I also read that funding is available through the European platform for educating teachers. How much money are we talking about? And how many teachers can use that? This weekend we also saw the message that schools are having more and more trouble finding German teachers. This year there would be about 150 teachers too few. I have a question for the Secretary of State. I know it's an easy question, but it's not that easy to answer. We will also assume our responsibility, but I ask the Secretary of State first: what is he going to do to help solve this problem? For example, the German Embassy, together with the Dutch-German Trade Chamber and some other parties, has taken the initiative to make students enthusiastic about the German language. Is the Secretary of State prepared to support and strengthen such an initiative? I come to the languages chosen. The Secretary of State makes the right balance by choosing English, French and German. The languages of our neighbouring countries are the most important languages at the moment. I do not exclude that this should be extended in the future to include Chinese, Italian or Spanish, but it is too early for that as far as my group is concerned. A concern is the connection of primary education to secondary education. If students have had 15% or more of the time teaching in a foreign language, how can we prevent this gap from getting worse because of early foreign language teaching in secondary education? How will the Secretary of State take this into account, for example in the context of #Education2032? Finally, I have a question for clarification. The legal text now states that education can be given in English, German or French. Does this mean that a school has to choose one of those three languages? Or can a school also opt for, for example, part English and part German?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u21	Mr. Chairman. When I was in elementary school, I often went with my parents to my grandfather and grandmother on Sunday afternoon in picturesque Melick, near the German border. Before my father and my grandfather went together to watch the football of the German Bundesliga, I watched Die Sendung mit der Maus with them. Playing by the way, I got to know the German language. With Germany around the corner this was also self-evident. With Queen's Day we went shopping in Germany. I had a German pen girlfriend and later, when I was working as a side job at the V&D, I often spoke five different languages in one day, with customers who all came to us within 30 kilometers of shopping. This wealth of different languages and cultures close by is one of the most beautiful things that life brings about in a border region. The reality, however, is, contrary to what you might expect, that this wealth for Dutch children now, in 2015, is much less self-evident than before. As a country, the Netherlands is increasingly Anglo-Saxon oriented. Unfortunately, on TV, you don't see Derrick anymore, you see CSI. Parents are no longer a fan of Udo Jürgens but of Coldplay. The first foreign TV channel is no longer ZDF programmed, but CNN or the BBC. The VVD is not an opponent of English in education; certainly not. English as lingua franca in our small language area is crucial if you want to get out of the world. But the VVD is happy that today it is not just about English. The Secretary of State now offers primary schools the opportunity to include not only English, but also German or French as a second language in their education programme. In this we see a recognition of the fact that in the Netherlands, however small the country is, there is a need for regional tailor-made work, also for the way in which we want to give our children an international orientation. Over the last two years, I have regularly called for attention to be paid to the importance of German and French in education, so-called 'neighbouring language education'. It is precisely because our children no longer come naturally into contact with the language and culture of the neighbours that education can play a role in educating this international orientation. From the round table that we have recently organised, it emerged that schools are also keen to work with great speed, but that there is still a tight regulatory framework in the way. For example, there are numerous beautiful companies across the border where our VMBO and MBO students would like to take an internship. Unfortunately, however, these companies are not officially recognised. There are also administrative complexities that lead to problems in contacts with DUO, for example in relation to travel expenses and insurance for pupils. In addition, in teaching in the Netherlands, we assume that English is always the first foreign language. For example, the possibilities of giving German a place in all profiles of the vmbo are limited. Schools in the border region would like to see an equal choice of German or French instead of English. In stimulating German, but also French, in Dutch education it is important that that space exists. In addition, sufficient appealing teaching material should be available in three languages for primary education. Especially for German and French, this can really be even better. Another point of primary education in another language is the quality of the teacher and his or her language skills. Schools that are seriously engaged in second-language education consider it important that teachers can obtain some form of professional recognition for this. To what extent could this, for example through the teacher register, be given a place? Many provinces and municipalities invest in local education, but this now leads to a variety of programs running through and along each other and the wheel is often reinvented. This expertise can be used more efficiently and effectively, for example by picking up a piece of direction from OCW. Education does not therefore require high-quality programmes, but practical solutions. This gives local education in the Netherlands a real boost. I therefore call on the Secretary of State to get to work on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u22	Mrs Straus was just talking about equality in education. German, French and English must be equivalent. She said, among other things, that there is a real need for German in primary school. She also gave examples from her own life. How does Mrs Straus of the VVD judge that only one of the pilot schools has chosen German? The rest have all chosen English. They are only 13 schools, but 12 of them opt for English, one for German and zero for French. How does Mrs Straus interpret that? Is there really such a need to integrate the German language from the third grade into primary education?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u23	Mrs Siderius talks about the pilot that OCW started. In addition, there are 35 euregion schools in the border region which have included local education in their programme. This was not done through the official arrangement at the time, for which there was only a limited period of registration. These schools have organized it in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u24	Mrs Straus forgets to mention that all English has been chosen in these schools. In the pilot there was only one school of German and the rest chose English. Mrs Straus could have read that in the papers. So where does Mrs Straus get the idea that there is so much need for education in German? In addition, how does Mrs Straus assess that no research has been carried out on the effect on the language skills of pupils as a result of the pilot?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u25	So those 35 euregion schools I was talking about, they give German and French. If Mrs Siderius is reading history correctly, she can see that I delivered the handbook for euregio education to the Secretary of State two years ago. There's a whole curriculum behind that. However, this is a different scheme from the pilot that started through OCW. But that doesn't mean those schools don't do anything about German. So I think those two things happen side by side. Last weekend, the VVD's plea for more attention to German in education was supported by the NOS, which addressed this in two items. First of all, it showed that German is not only important from bildung....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Germany is the main trading partner of the Netherlands, but our share is falling. Entrepreneurs in Germany indicate that they are concerned about the decline in language skills of Dutch people in German, because especially in German SMEs, not everyone speaks English. Meanwhile, there are more German children learning Dutch than Dutch children learning German. With the knowledge of local education, the language of the neighbors, you increase your chances of getting a job, especially in the border region. German employers are jumping to staff of all levels. Then it is even more harsh to see that people are unemployed at home in the Netherlands, while there are plenty of vacancies just across the border. For example, the concept of the Euroregion school has already brought students into contact with children on the other side of the border from group five on a live basis. Playing in this way, a basis is laid in which it is not so much about learning all kinds of name traps, but about everyday communication with each other. That greatly lowers the threshold for speaking that foreign language. The other item on the NOS-Journaal this weekend was about the acute shortage of German teachers. Mr Van Meenen has already spoken about this. What will the Secretary of State do to reduce the shortage of German teachers? Can he, for example, make it more attractive for students to choose German? Or can it mean something, for example, in facilitating the recognition of German teachers' competences? Or can he create dual recognitions of teachers in collaboration with a number of German and Dutch teacher training programmes? The recognition procedure of someone who is already competent in Germany and wants to work in the Netherlands is now taking so long that it is more discouraging than encouraging. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. The VVD welcomes the fact that this bill creates the possibility not only of giving English, but also the language of the neighbors a place in the curriculum from primary school onwards. This is important for the international orientation of our children, the improvement of their labour market position in the future and the economy of the Netherlands, but in fact, I quote a statement by the Limburg Commissioner of the King during the round table discussion, which is also a sign of civilisation when you speak the language of the neighbors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u26	Mr. Chairman. The CDA gives it to all children to develop widely, including the ability to acquire foreign languages. First of all, however, it must remain that all Dutch children learn to speak Dutch very well at primary school. On the basis of an opinion from the Education Council and the need from the educational field, including that of parents, an experiment was carried out between 2010 and 2012 in which primary schools were allowed to teach up to 15% of the teaching time in English, German or French. The results of this experiment were positive. The CDA is therefore also in agreement with the draft law before us which makes it possible for primary schools to offer part of the teaching time in those foreign languages, with the participation councils of these schools also having the opportunity to agree to it. They have the right of assent, as the Secretary of State also replied during the written round. We know that parents, primary schools and business, especially in border regions, have the idea that a stronger international orientation is needed and that it also offers opportunities, for example in the labour market. It is important that children come into contact with foreign languages early in the day. Governments and businesses in the eastern border region are making a strong appeal to learn German, especially at an early age, as was shown by the round table we held. However, there are also a few concerns about the quality of the teacher, the position of weaker pupils and the question of what the engling of primary education does with the mastery of Dutch. Firstly, the quality of the teacher. This should be subject to the same requirements as other teachers, as stated by the Secretary of State in his written reply. The question I'm asking here is, is it? Teachers are trained to teach, for example, in world orientation but not to teach that particular subject also in English. Of course, we will not want Virgin House situations in primary education with teachers who speak coal english and have limited vocabulary, which means that students will hear English more often but will not learn about the subject on the agenda. The CDA would like more certainty from the Secretary of State how he will ensure that students learn foreign language in a good way and that teachers are also linguistic in that English, French or German. What possibilities does the Secretary of State see? Can the inspection, for example, also monitor this? Then there is my second point, the weak students. The Secretary of State states in the note following the report that all pupils in the pilots performed better. He also states that it is up to the school to support students who need it. The CDA believes that specific attention should be paid to this in this legislative proposal. This should not lead to an unintentional division between pupils at school. What opportunities do parents have, for example, to ring the bell if pupils are left behind? Does the Secretary of State see opportunities to ensure that students who can't handle it will continue to receive good education? Finally, the mastery of Dutch. Now that other subjects may also be taught in another language, such as geography and history, less Dutch will be spoken in schools that choose to teach up to 15% of the time in English, German or French. The experiments did not seem to have a negative effect on the Dutch of students, but the CDA does not want to run any risks. Is the Secretary of State prepared to monitor the effects of mastering the Dutch language of pupils who in part, up to 15% of the total time in this type of school, are receiving lessons in a foreign language more than at present? In short, we ask the Secretary of State to pay particular attention to these three issues in the evaluation of this law so that we can adjust them in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u27	That monitoring thing is fun, but it happens afterwards. Why does the CDA not choose to examine in advance the effects of early learning of foreign languages on the language skills of pupils? Mr Rog rightly asks what it means for learning the Dutch language. We should all share these concerns here. Why doesn't Mr Rog choose to investigate the impact of this on the language skills of students before we introduce this amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u28	It's two things. Early foreign language education has indeed been investigated, including internationally. There are positive effects. Getting in touch with another language early leads to a better understanding of that language. In the experiments I do not allow the word 'pilots' to be used, because I would like to make as little mistake as possible with the use of English terms 'We have seen that it seems that it has no negative effect in any case. Mrs Siderius has been somewhat more critical of this in her contribution than I have, but it does not seem to have a negative effect. That's a good thing. It may have the positive effect that students learn that foreign language. I'm asking the Secretary of State to continue to monitor specifically whether this doesn't have a negative effect. Mrs Siderius and I share that concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u29	The experience report on the pilots just says that people are excited. There's nothing in it about the effect on language skills. Mr Rog now cites international research which shows, he says, that there are positive results. Can Mr Rog tell us what research this is? I didn't find it. In my contribution I have mentioned three studies in which there are nevertheless quite critical ones. Which research is Mr Rog referring to exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u30	I will at least mention one research. In 2007 the trilingual education in Frisian, English and Dutch was studied. This showed that the students only experienced positive effects. That gives the citizen courage. So I think we should give students that chance. At the moment, I can't actually launch other investigations, but there are certain. This shows that it has a positive effect on the second language, as I said. The concern I share with Mrs Siderius concerns the Dutch language. I addressed these questions to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u31	Thank you for your contribution. Compliments that you avoid the word "pilot" and simply use a Dutch word for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u32	Mr. Chairman. Language brings people together, but also drives them apart. The well-known Biblical story of the Babylonian confusion speaks volumes in that respect. We owe it to language teaching, or because of it; it's just how you interpret it. Also just across our southern border we see the power of language. Bilingualism is the same as language in general: it can connect people, but it can also scatter them. The SGP considers it important for students to learn foreign languages. In addition to personal education, we build cultural, social and economic bridges. The starting point for my group is that the Dutch language should not be put under pressure. In fact, the mastery of the Dutch language should be promoted wherever possible. In recent years we have heard many complaints about the lack of mastery of the Dutch language. It must be the basis for further language learning in our country. The draft law should therefore be used with care to deal with the Dutch language and should promote the learning of other languages within that framework. This is how the SGP opposes this bill. The government strongly stresses the usefulness of proven effective programmes. This seems to be in line with a recommendation made by the Dijsselbloem Committee some time ago. She has already forgotten, but this committee really existed. The recommendation is that policies should be based on sound scientific evidence. In this light, it should be noted that only two studies are actually cited to support the proposal. The first is an experience study in which no statements can be made about measurable effects and the generalisability of the results. The second is a study of only 168 pupils. The question is whether this is not a little lean to base the effectiveness of primary education. How does the Secretary of State respond to summary studies showing that early start-ups perform as well in foreign language learning as late start-ups? Maybe I should turn it around: late starters perform as well as early starters. It is not yet clear what the profits from early language learning are. The SGP considers it important that the legislative proposal provides clarity on the legal frameworks. Over the past few years, there has been some confusion about the boundaries. In addition to the experiment that has been carried out, some schools also appear to be working without an exemption. Can the Secretary of State confirm that this is not allowed? Are schools really going to be kept to the percentage that is being set, or can they still decide to opt for 25%, for example, and then justify it properly? The SGP notes that primary education for deviating from Dutch as a language has a different regime than the other sectors of education. We are curious why this separate status is being continued. The SGP notes that in other educational sectors the competent authority is expected to justify in a code of conduct why it deviates from Dutch as a language. This guarantee also seems important in primary education, so that, for example, a careful consideration is made of language teaching for young children. I would like to receive a response to the amendment that we have tabled, but which still needs some cleaning. In this respect, the amendment seeks to link primary education with the other sectors, while maintaining a maximum percentage, by establishing a General Administrative Measure as a reference point. The SGP is pleased to receive an explanation of the funding received by schools to shape foreign language teaching. Is this mainly done through grants from the European Platform? Should schools acquire them themselves or will all schools receive a sum in the lumpsum for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u33	Could Mr Bishop clarify his somewhat enigmatic amendment, because I have not quite gotten to the point yet. What exactly does he intend to achieve with his amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u34	The amendment aims to extend the provisions of the other laws, such as those for secondary education, to primary education. In fact, the purpose of the amendment is merely to standardise the arrangements in the various sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u35	There is also a lot in the explanatory statement about accountability and a code of conduct. It also states that it is not just about English, German and French, but about "a foreign language." So it's about every foreign language in which they teach. Can Mr Bishop explain this further?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u36	The intention is very explicit to limit it to the English, German and French languages. That raises questions, has turned out to me. That is something we need to work on, so that the amendment is well formulated. You'll hear more about that. The amendment is not intended to be a policy intervention, but rather to strengthen regulation and make it as similar as possible for all sectors of education. Finally. For the promotion of the Dutch language, the Netherlands has signed a special treaty with our southern neighbours. It also states that legislation is being aligned. Can the Secretary of State indicate how the alignment on Dutch in education takes shape? Is or has there been consultation with Flanders about legislative proposals such as this one? Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for your willingness to give me the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u37	Mr. Chairman. Do we want to make it possible for part of the teaching time to be offered in a language other than Dutch or Frisian in Friesland, namely English, German or French? The General Measure of Management determines the percentage of teaching time that can be given per school year in English, German or French. In practice, German and French will hardly be introduced. Mrs. Siderius pointed it out. It will be mainly English that will be offered. The Secretary of State intends to set the percentage initially at a maximum of 15. This percentage follows from an opinion of the Education Council of 2008 and from a pilot project: 15% early foreign language education. From the 2015-2016 school year, this law allows schools to offer up to 15% of the teaching time in one of those languages, but that is already possible without this law. It is also quite possible to offer multilingual education without this law. The new law does give the Secretary of State something extra, namely the possibility, after some time without having a new experiment, of allowing schools with one area of pens to increase the percentage of lessons in English or in all the other languages to no matter what percentage. In principle, this new law opens up the possibility of even teaching entirely English. Since 2002, the European Council of Heads of Government and the Commission have been calling for what they call "generalised multilingualism of citizens." Generalised multilingualism of the citizens, I am not making it up; it really is there. In an action plan, the European Commission stated as follows: "All pupils should be encouraged to learn at least two European languages in addition to their mother tongue. Member States should take measures to enable foreign languages to be learned in pre-school and primary education at a young age." End of quote. In the elitist part of the Netherlands, that message is certainly not addressed to deaf ears. The current government is beating itself up about its international cosmopolitan orientation, and of course it wants to translate it into education. The PVV asks the State Secretary if he can explain how many schools already offer multilingual education. Is there anything to say about the districts where those schools are located? Which neighborhoods do we find them in? What is the composition of the student population there when it comes to native and immigrant? Is my feeling that they're mostly white schools? Can the Secretary of State also explain how this is now regulated by law and what would be the added value of the new law? It is already possible to offer multilingual education without this law, and that is what is happening. Does the Secretary of State have the idea that, as a result of the introduction of this law, many schools are suddenly eager to make use of this scheme? Mrs Siderius also spoke about this. I'd like a reaction to that, too. It is still very much the question of whether multilingual education is as appropriate as the State Secretary suggests, especially for children from minority groups who speak a different home language than Dutch. The language control in these groups is already problematic enough, and that also has a negative impact on the native children in those classes and in those schools. That is precisely why policies have been used to increase the quality of the core subjects of Dutch and mathematics. As far as we are concerned, we have achieved the opposite. There is another group of children for whom multilingual education is not the right choice, namely children suffering from some kind of learning disability. Multilingual education really does not seem to be the optimal choice for these students. Does the Secretary of State agree with us? In what way is the Secretary of State going to take these students into account? I'd like to hear a response to that. The Swiss linguist Simone Pfenninger of the University of Zurich came to the conclusion that learning a second language does not benefit more than acquiring that foreign language at a later age. Mr Bishop has already referred to this. Early learning of a foreign language can even be negative for the first language in the short term. Here too, I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. The PVV considers that the position of the Dutch language should be maintained. Opening the door wide to multilingual education is, as far as we are concerned, a first step in the displacement of Dutch. English has undisputedly become a dominant language worldwide. Experiments have been carried out with a dominant and prestigious second language which shows that, after the introduction of multilingual education, the call for fully monolingual foreign language teaching quickly comes, especially if that second language is a prestigious, dominant language. This was the case, for example, after the introduction of immersion education in the Netherlands. Initially, in the first experiments, the results were disappointing. Then a professor wrote: "Overviewing the available data, the conclusion seems inevitable that, with all good intentions, the experiments in our country have so far concentrated on the least successful form of immersion. It would therefore be advisable, at the very least, to also experiment with total immersion in primary schools." Total immersion... This linguist pleads without reservation for giving up one's own language in education and for the introduction of the second language, English, as an instructional language for Dutch primary education. Crazy, as far as we're concerned. Our fear is this. As the second language becomes more and more the role of Dutch as an educational language, Dutch is actually being demoted into a home-garden and kitchen language for the intimate circle and the living room. Just as French at the time of French domination was the language of the administrative elite and the cultural language, in order to degrade Dutch to the language of the street and of the peasants, the same now seems to happen to English as the language of... I've lost the rest of my line, Mr. Chairman. I think it's still on my table. Mr. Rog is already bringing him. Thank you. This fear is felt more urgent by our southern neighbors in Belgium, I will call it "la Belgique" than by us; Mr Bisschop already referred to it. The same thing as in French now threatens to happen to English. That threatens to become the language of the elite and Dutch the language of the people. There will be a separation between the world of the elite, politics and administration on the one hand and the ordinary citizens on the other. This will make the two groups understand each other literally worse and worse. In addition, this movement for the PVV is the highlight of cultural relativism. There is de facto farewell to the social and cultural position of our Dutch language and thus to the carrier of the Dutch culture that is our language. We are considering voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u38	We've been warned. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Ypma of the PvdA group. Then we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u39	Mr. Chairman. "Young children have the ability to pick up a foreign language playing, that's an opportunity we shouldn't forget," our Secretary of State said as early as July 2013, and I like to include him in that. Over 1,000 primary schools in recent years have gained experience with English lessons in the suburban sector and more and more schools also want to use English partly as a teaching language in other subjects, because that is a good way to learn the language. This bill removes obstructive rules and enables foreign language teaching up to 15% of teaching time. That can count on our support. The PvdA focuses on the importance of creating opportunities and opportunities in education. The establishment of a basis for these languages in primary education may be important for children's opportunities in, for example, the border region. Making it possible to teach in English, German or French is of added value for internships, side jobs or other activities that children want to undertake in that environment. Mrs Straus already told her own story about that. More and more parents and schools want to give their children and students an international orientation early. There is a specific need to teach young children a second language and to use that foreign language as a teaching language. For me, it is very important that the PO Council and the Education Council have also indicated their support for this bill. For the Labour Party, however, it is essential that the partial provision of education in English, German or French should not create barriers to the accessibility of primary schools for a broad group of pupils. In addition, sufficient attention should be paid to basic skills. The focus on language and computing skills continues to be a priority for me in education. Dutch should remain at least at the same high level as language, but also in the quality of reading and writing. However, research shows that early learning of a foreign language has a positive effect on the understanding of language in general and the sensitivity to language. I agree with Mr Bishop that research is limited, but that research shows that young children are very sensitive to language and that they are able to learn several languages side by side. Children are better at mastering a foreign language than those who play at a young age. That therefore continues to work in the Dutch lessons. In other words, the final level that a child can achieve depends on the way it is delivered and on the one who learns the language. One child needs more support and guidance than the other. I agree with Mr Beertema that it is important that children with learning difficulties in the field of language deserve special attention. I am therefore very curious about the response of the Secretary of State to Mr Beertema's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u40	I am surprised that the Labour Party has here all kinds of statements that have not been proven at all and have not been researched. For example, she says that small children pick up language earlier, but research shows that it doesn't matter at all whether you're only offering it in grade seven or eight or from third grade. It would be a good thing if the PvdA were more interested in underlying research. It should also look into the impact on the language skills of pupils, as a result of the pilot there has been. My question is mainly about language delays. The PvdA always wants to give children opportunities, especially vulnerable children. What is the effect of offering a foreign language already in group three or four on learning the Dutch language and eliminating language disadvantages or other educational disadvantages?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u41	Let me be very clear about that. Children with language disadvantages should first learn to speak Dutch well. They live here in the Netherlands and must master the Dutch language well. That is the top priority for the Labour Party. I have just indicated that it should never be at the expense of Dutch as a language or of the quality of reading and writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u42	That is, of course, a fine statement with which everyone here agrees, but has that been investigated? Are the effects of this clear? No, there aren't! You don't have those tests and results either! Wouldn't it be wise if you first made a firm effort to investigate the impact of this type of education on children with language disadvantage or other educational disadvantages before giving primary schools the opportunity to teach 15%, four hours a week in English? Is it not the reverse world that you push such a reform into education first and then, in a few years or five years, want to see what comes out of it? Then maybe the kids are already ruined.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u43	I have already said something about the number of investigations that have been carried out. It may not be a lot of research, but research has been carried out. I just quoted that. I didn't make that up myself, but I'm literally quoting from the studies that have been done here. Besides, it's not like this has just been experimented with. There are already about 1,000 schools working on this! Those schools want it, parents want it, and kids want it. Children are entitled to good education throughout the Netherlands. I will therefore not support D66's intention to go to 50%, because that is not the question before us, but that 15% has been looked at. We find each other in the view that Dutch is the main language and should therefore be given the highest priority. I will continue my speech. This, of course, creates the possibility of partial education in English, German and French and of binding obligations. The lessons given in a foreign language must be of high quality. To achieve this, we need capable teachers. Mr Rog has already said a few things about this, and I agree with that for the sake of clarity. There are no further requirements on the competence of teachers. I would therefore like to ask whether the Secretary of State can indicate the possibilities for schools to raise the level of competence of teachers. I have seen, for example, that there are all kinds of European grants, such as the Vios grant and the Erasmus+ grant. Is the Secretary of State going to encourage them to be used? Can he also undertake that the teacher register must indicate continuing training so that schools can prove that their teachers have been trained in it or that they have been trained in it in initial teacher training? I would like to receive a good and clear commitment from the Secretary of State. The NOS reported last Saturday that the German teacher deficit is estimated at 4% to 5% this year. My colleagues have already spoken about this. Can the Secretary of State explain how the teaching of German in primary education is being shaped now that there is already a huge shortage of German teachers in secondary education? "Who else wants to give German?" was the headline of the article. A deficit of 150 teachers per year is expected to be quite a lot, whereas there are only dozens of graduations. I therefore agree with Mr Straus that you should not make it too complicated and possible for native speakers. I remember in the play it said that only a crush on native speakers is reason to stay here, because the procedures are so complicated and requires quite a bit of perseverance. I think it's a little complicated to promote love, so I'm curious about the Secretary of State's plans. I also read about the English approach plan, which monitors the improvement of foreign language teaching in English. I am pleased that this plan is in place and that the inspection by means of periodic polls will monitor the quality of the lessons given in English. However, there is no specific plan for German and French. The monitoring and implementation of German and French are left to the educational field itself. I would like a clear commitment from the Secretary of State that such a plan will also apply to German and French and that the inspection by means of periodic polls will also guarantee its quality. Once again, every child has the right to good education, and that is what we must ensure. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u44	Thank you. So much for the Chamber's term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u45	Mr. Chairman. The world around us is getting smaller and we are getting more and more in touch with people in other countries. You can catch a plane to Milan or catch a train to London. Small children are often already in contact with peers in countries far away, in America, in Spain or anywhere else. For example, look at what's in an iPhone. The parts of it come from all over the world. In fact, I have been told that the ingredients of a pot of Nutella are coming from everywhere. Yeah, it's really there. In other words, where the world used to be small and stopped at national borders and a trip to Germany or France was quite a tour, that is now the most normal thing in the world. It is a task of education to prepare pupils well for this, for a future that is more international and in which the world is the scene. A job at a large multinational company or in a small family business in Groningen, which mainly has German customers, also contributes to the competitiveness of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u46	Mr Bertema wants to know about this Nutella.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u47	Well, no. With all due respect, I would like to inform the Secretary of State that these are incredibly cliché arguments to argue for foreign language education. The world is now as international as it was in the seventeenth century. The pepper wasn't grown in the Betuwe either, I'll say. It was also brought from the other side of the world. In my day, I've still done hbs-a, the foreign language education was excellent. Many of my colleagues swarmed all over the world to serve beautiful multinationals. Let's just stop with this kind of clichéd arguments and move on to the order of the day. The Secretary of State wants to give English to small children. Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u48	The world view of Mr Beertema and myself is different in many respects, and I think this is one of them. I think something has changed. Where in the sixteenth century, perhaps, some people were destined to travel far away, that is now the most normal thing in the world. You can also see that the Netherlands is becoming more international. Business is done with companies across national borders, young people travel much more often and faster, and finding a study or job abroad has become the most normal thing in the world. Today we can get in touch with a lot of other people around the world on our iPhone or on our iPad, where it used to be a lot more complicated when it had to be with a courier or with the carrier pigeon. Yeah, the carrier pigeon. I'm just yelling. Education also does a lot to become more international. All primary schools, for example, are obliged to give the course English. More and more schools take a step further and offer a foreign language from the start. We can see it's working. Research at home and abroad also shows that primary school age is an ideal age for learning a language and that it is good to use this time as much as possible. Mrs Siderius asked where to find the investigation. I refer her to the preliminary study that was done for the pilot with bilingual teaching in the po. This is a whole book, which can be found on the website of the European Platform. I think it contains 80 references to studies that clearly show that it is working positively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u49	The comment about toddlers giving an iPhone, I think I'll pass. I think that's really a non-argument, because most toddlers, fortunately, don't have an iPhone yet. I'm gonna go check on the tests. The Secretary of State is now calling one little investigation. The pilot's investigation doesn't prove anything. No effects have been measured on the language skills of pupils. I have mentioned three international studies which show that it does not have much effect at all to stamp children in third grade with French, German or English. This shows that it is much wiser to teach the children just Dutch, so that they can understand their neighbor later, so that if they want to buy a bread, they can make that clear to the baker, so that they can just understand what a study is about when they have to choose a study. So the Secretary of State is talking about a little investigation, but what does he think of the results of all the other investigations?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u50	I just mentioned a preliminary study which refers to no less than 80 studies. So it's not just one investigation, it's 80 investigations. There are more than the three investigations mentioned here by Mrs Siderius. I do not want to trivialise the importance of Dutch, because Dutch is very important. However, these studies show that bilingual education does not have to be at the expense of the primary language at all. We also see this coming back in experience studies we did in the Dutch pilot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u51	The Secretary of State says it doesn't have to be at the expense of... I'll put the emphasis on "need." So it can be at the cost of the primary language. Children with a language disadvantage or with other educational disadvantages have not been looked at. It is not for nothing in the study of experience that in half the schools, the cognitive differences between pupils in group three are a major stumbling block in order to be able to teach foreign languages in a somewhat decent way. Why does the Secretary of State just ignore that and only go after his own tunnel vision? Why isn't he willing to take another look at what this can do for other children? Why does the Secretary of State only look at these students from the economic perspective? Why is he only talking about improving the competitiveness of the Netherlands? Why is he only looking at this from the perspective of international trade? Why doesn't he look at what's best for children's development now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u52	I'm looking at opportunities. I look at children who like to learn and who like to do a little extra, at parents who get excited about it, at schools that get excited about it. Mrs Siderius' Socialist Party would like to ban this. It's possible. We shall not be able to agree on this. Each school has children who learn a little faster and children who learn a little harder. They were also in the schools that participated in the pilots. This has also been taken into account in the many international investigations I have just referred to. I would really like to refer to that by Mrs Siderius. I printed them out here, but it's a really thick piece of paper. I think it is difficult to read all this during the debate, but perhaps Mrs Siderius can do it afterwards. There are also schools that want to go one step further than giving a course in a foreign language, by, for example, really integrating that language into other subjects. This means, for example, that the history lesson or the gym lesson is given in a foreign language. This cannot be done in the Netherlands. Dutch and Friesland are the allowed languages in primary education. Foreign research shows positive effects of bilingual education. I was just talking about that. In secondary education in the Netherlands we have been doing this for about 25 years, even there with positive results. In the experiments carried out in primary education, it covered up to 15% of education, i.e. about four hours a week. It also shows that the results are positive. That is why I want to remove the obstacles in the law and allow schools that want to do so to use English, German and French as a teaching language during the lessons. So it's not an obligation, it's an option we offer schools. So it's about space that we give the schools. Balance is also needed, and that is why there are limits to the space provided, namely the importance of the development of Dutch. The general development of pupils remains of course a priority. Mr Beertema asked whether this enthusiasm can only be seen in the schools where there are many white children. I think he was talking about children from higher-educated parents. The answer to that question is no. For example, we see that there is now also a school in Amsterdam in a disadvantaged area that does this. There, too, we would like to offer this bilingual education. As far as I'm concerned, this is open to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u53	The Secretary of State is right to say that he wants to give schools the room to teach in that second language, or at least to teach certain subjects with another language as language. Then he says that there is a limitation "because of the balance." That's a point I'd like to go over with him. Why is it 15% rather than 20% or 30%, for example? What's the ratio behind that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u54	Everyone feels that it does not go far enough in this debate, as Mr Van Meenen does, while others ask whether it does not go too far. We've done it one step at a time. Why did we put it at 15%? Because 15% was the percentage with which a first tranche of schools has tried in recent years. It went there in the form of an experiment and through research it has been examined how it went. I believe that Mr Bishop indicated that. Some "Dijsselbloemproof" research has been done. Then you can always say it's scientific and well-founded. However, at least this tranche of schools looked at how it was unpacked. And it turns out it's going well there. Now that things are going well, the time has come to make it possible for all schools in the Netherlands. Is it not possible that this will in future be extended to, for example, fully bilingual education, as we know in secondary education? I'm not ruling that out in advance. However, it would be good to try that again first with a first tranche of schools, before we offer that possibility to all schools in the Netherlands. That is exactly what we are doing. A number of primary schools are now going to give full bilingual education. It is good to wait and see what experiences they gain, what their effects are, also on the Dutch language, what it means for continuous learning lines and what it demands from teachers at school. Then we can also take those experiences with us if we may extend it further in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u55	I understand that reasoning. So that 15% is due to the fact that we started experimenting up to 15%, which was actually not a ratio behind it at the time. 15% is a relatively arbitrary percentage, I am sure. It is precisely the investigations to which the Secretary of State refers that are those 80 researches from that preliminary stage, I shall say that I do not impose that limit in advance there. These studies say that there are positive effects on the development of the foreign language and there are no expected negative effects on the development of one's own language. So my question remains why it is not allowed for schools to go one step further when parents, teachers and school leaders say that they dare to do so, given the opportunities and composition of their population. I think that will be particularly true in the border regions. You could also think of allowing enlargement only in the border regions, for example. It is most likely that it will be used there as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u56	Well, that's a pretty arbritative thing to say. Then why do it only there and not for example in large cities, where students sometimes go for an international career, or where there are many international organisations? I am concerned with care and order. We have now gone through a kind of process, in which we have not only based our experiences on foreign research, which is to which Mr Van Meenen refers, but we have also looked at what that means for the Dutch context, with teachers trained in the Netherlands and for the Dutch education system. This is different from the education system in the Anglo-Saxon countries, for example. This shows that 15% is working well. That is why we are now taking a full first step and broadening the possibilities. I see Mr Van Meenen's desire and enthusiasm for broadening and broadening the lake. However, I would prefer to wait for that second tranche of schools that are now in the process of doing so, and also to learn from those experiences. Those schools do have that opportunity. Some of these schools are also in the border region. This also answers Mr Van Meenen's question as to whether you could not turn it around: give more space and then apply the 'pass or explain' principle. If we now go for that 15%, it is clear that that is the maximum that all schools in the Netherlands can use. Then it is at four o'clock a week, with of course an exception for the schools that participate in the experiment. They have a bigger extension. I would like to make a few comments on the languages. In the bill we choose the languages English, German and French. English is the most spoken language in the world. Germany, France, Belgium and the UK are our main exporting countries. But besides English, German and French are the most important languages geographically. It is not for nothing that it is the three languages used in the European Union. Mr Van Meenen asked whether it is also possible to teach in English, Dutch and German. In this bill, the schools are really asked to choose one language. Mrs Siderius asked whether it was not important to improve the level of Dutch before the introduction of bilingual education. I don't share her opinion. Teaching in the Dutch language does not suffer from teaching that 15% in a foreign language, which is four hours a week. Our research has shown this, and this is also supported by research in other countries. Nor do I think that this bill will lead to a further division in education. Education offers opportunities to children. We shouldn't miss out on those odds. If we want to learn something early, pick up a second or a third language, why would we stand in the way? At the same time, of course, attention should also be paid to children who are lagging behind. It is not for nothing that we spend some 700 million a year on education for disadvantaged people. The Netherlands belongs to the top of the world on that part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u57	It is a pity that the Secretary of State believes that the position of the SP should be misunderstood. The SP is not at all in favour of banning English or French in primary school, but we do wonder whether it is desirable to teach children in a foreign language from group three four hours a week. We're not gonna agree on those tests. I do have another question. The Secretary of State claims here that teaching in a foreign language has no effect, that it eliminates a language disadvantage or that it has no negative effect. Can the Secretary of State explain that? What exactly are the effects of foreign language learning from the third grade on pupils with a language disadvantage?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u58	The impact study at the pilot, with that maximum of 15%, does not show negative results for Dutch. The results for English, on the other hand, were positive. This was true for all students: the non-Dutch language even appeared to score slightly better on English vocabulary and grammar than the Dutch language. The numbers may have been too small to speak of a significant effect. That also has to do with the extent of the experiment we have done here. But international research supports the fact that bilingual programmes do not adversely affect pupils with weak learning outcomes. For pupils with a foreign mother tongue, they also show on average better results in bilingual programmes than the same group of pupils in schools with a regular education programme. It can all be found in the preliminary study I have just referred to. The research has been done, for example, in Sweden, Finland and Canada.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u59	Apparently, the Secretary of State also got this racket from his officials and he thought: I'm just going to give the same answer to every question. My question was about children with a language disadvantage or underage in group three or four who receive foreign language education four hours a week, that is English, French or German. Does that help to overcome those linguistic or educational disadvantages earlier? The Secretary of State cites the 15% pilot, but that pilot is an experience study. In that lecturers say: well, we are very enthusiastic! But no research has been carried out into the effects on the language skills of students. So that investigation could really throw the Secretary of State in the trash. That is of no use to him when it comes to educational or linguistic disadvantages. So what is the effect of four hours a week English, French or German on children with an educational or language disadvantage? Is it disposed of more quickly and, if so, to what extent and at what frequency?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u60	It also looked at educational outcomes, but it was said that the numbers were too small to speak of significant improvements. In any case, there have been no deteriorations. If we add that to the available international research I have just referred to, we can offer elementary schools four hours of foreign language teaching with sufficient certainty and confidence. I also referred to Mr Dronkers's article on this subject. He's making a claim in there. However, his assertion is also contradicted by research which shows that pupils who are weak in language or generally weaker are achieving better results in bilingual education. More generally, I say the following in the direction of Mr Rog. Now that we have this opportunity, we must be and remain vigilant in the regular monitoring of the inspection. I am not talking so much about an evaluation of the law on this subject, but there is no article in this bill; that would require a lot of additional research as well as regular monitoring by the inspection, which is paying attention to how schools are doing in the areas in which they are being assessed. Language and primary education weigh very heavily and not unjustly. That is often a good predictor and an important factor for success later. The schools that are going to offer bilingual education must also, of course, meet certain levels. Then the question is how do we ensure that teachers are well equipped to offer English, German or French and whether they are at the moment. No, we have to be honest about the fact that this is not the case in every school. A good mastery of the language and the corresponding didactic skills are indeed important. It is therefore not an obligation for schools and teachers to offer lessons in another language. You really need to discuss that with your team: are we ready for that and what does it ask of us? If a school chooses to do so, it also requires an additional investment in the school, in the skills of teachers. That is precisely why schools should consult with the participation council on this issue, so that teachers also know what is expected of them. Teacher lecturers in the co-determination council should eventually agree to this. That's how it's well secured at school level. I'm not setting up any additional skills requirements. In secondary education, bilingual education has been in existence for 25 years. There, too, no further competence requirements are required for the teaching of bilingual. However, a quality code has been agreed among ourselves, which works well there. So the question is whether we should add that to legislation and regulation. I should rather like to point out to primary education what colleagues in secondary education have done. Primary education must take advantage of this. This is also one of the things that schools take with them in the further pilot with 30% or 40% foreign language teaching. Schools in secondary education have taken responsibility for ensuring that quality. They have established a strong tto network under the guidance and coordination of EP-Nuffic. Are the schools able to prepare themselves? How can teachers be trained? There are several training opportunities for teachers. EP-Nuffic is the organization that can help schools find the right continuing training. Schools can also use the Early Language Education Guide, developed by the then European Platform, which has now been incorporated into EP-Nuffic. This manual is based on the national standard vvto, which includes all the quality requirements that a good vvto-school has to meet. The SLO has also developed an instrument, a kind of self-evaluation for teachers, containing the most important skills needed to provide, for example, regular English or early foreign language teaching. Mrs Straus asked whether the teacher register could still play a role in registering or recognising the offer of further training in this field. I can imagine that very well. The only reservation I have to make is that if there is a teacher's register coming up, we must guarantee it legally here, together with all of us, also in view of the civil impact of that teacher's register, but that it is the professional group itself that explains what training is included in it and exactly how it is registered. I would therefore find it strange if this were not given a place in it, but it is ultimately the profession that has to shape and give substance to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u61	I'd like to take this up with you. The Secretary of State will be in regular conversation with the people working on the further development of the teacher register. Can he ask them to address this issue and add it to their range of training programmes? Indeed, there is already a procedure for getting these courses recognised and included in the teacher register. In any case, it seems to me worthwhile if these foreign language courses are part of that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u62	That seems to me to be an excellent suggestion. I will. Mr Van Meenen asked whether the start-up grants for early foreign language education could also be used for schools that opt for French or German instead of English. The answer to that question is yes. In 2014, this grant was granted to a total of 158 schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u63	I'll come back to the teachers and the instruments. The Secretary of State states that schools will then choose for themselves. So they have to talk about that at school, and if they want to, they can choose to. Can a school require a teacher to give maths in English, for example, in the future? How does that work? How far can you go as a school? Let's say a school that teaches languages and a teacher doesn't want to participate or can't participate. Perhaps there are teachers in primary education who cannot speak fluent French. Can a school fire a teacher? What about this, also labour law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u64	I just indicated that a school can't just switch to bilingual education. This calls for the assent of the co-determination council, which includes teachers. If a school then chooses to do so, then it is also not crazy if the school leader or the school board of his employees asks them to take a number of steps to ensure that it is not something in which the class depends on a teacher who wants to participate or not. Then it's a choice of the school in full width.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u65	Not all teachers are on the co-decision board. If just by chance the teachers who are in it find it a fantastic idea to give French, and the rest of the teachers at that primary school, or some of them, doesn't say they have the skills to do it because they're not trained, can a school director expect his teachers to speak fluently French? And if teachers do not respond, what is the ultimate consequence? I would like to hear what, in the eyes of the Secretary of State, could happen legally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u66	There is indeed a representation of the teachers in the participation council. These are chosen by all teachers. That's the way it is with co-determination councils. That is the principle of delegation. It is for a school that wants bilingual education, of course possible to take such a turn, as well as a school can choose to become a technasium or to adhere to a particular educational philosophy for education. If you then do so as a school, after carefully going through the procedures and having received the consent of the co-determination council, then it is not surprising that you then ask your staff and your teachers questions. It doesn't mean that they should be able to speak French with one snap of their fingers, but you can ask them to take a course, to train in it. It also seems logical to me that a school then offers the space and the means to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u67	On this point, I would like to put another question to the Secretary of State. He has already mentioned the role of the inspection. I'd like to know a little more specific. If that education is then given by teachers with extremely limited vocabulary, then we do not have enough children. Does the Secretary of State see a role for the inspection on this point? I had the impression that he went a little over that in his previous answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u68	The inspection shall monitor the quality of education, in full width. She does so in all schools, including those that offer that bilingual education. If education is given in coal English or coal German, it will be at the expense of the quality of education and the inspection will, of course, intervene in that regard. However, there will not be a separate supervisory framework for schools with bilingual education. There is no such thing in secondary education. That's where they're just looking at how these schools are doing in terms of final exam results, flow rates, and you name it all. Those are the things we often discuss here. To do the right thing, you have to have your education at a good level. That way, indirectly, it is monitored.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u69	I do not want the Secretary of State to send the inspection to the schools over and over again, but would it not be useful in this case to focus attention on the regular supervision of the inspection at these schools when the regular curriculum is given in full width in a foreign language? Can the Secretary of State offer us some comfort in that respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u70	I always find that difficult, because I believe that politics should remain at some distance from the inspection frameworks. They're not being established here. This is where we make laws. The inspection will then begin, together with the sector. I can see how the inspection is shaping the focus of Mr Rog's work in secondary education, where several hundred schools now provide bilingual education. Does this call for additional attention in these schools or does the inspection consider that the regular inspection framework applied to all schools is sufficient? As far as I am concerned, we are learning as much as possible from the experience gained there, including for primary education. There were some questions about a number of additional measures in the field of English. They were announced in 2013 because English is a compulsory subject for all schools. We offer a choice, but English is mandatory for all schools. Of the three languages that are possible, English is included in the core objectives. English is therefore the only compulsory foreign language in primary education. German and French are electives, which offer scope within the educational period. Schools are responsible for this. This does not mean that they cannot benefit from the measures taken in English. In the field of English, particular attention is paid to the provision of hand-outs for skills. In that sense, these things are also more widely applicable. Several questions were asked about German, including following a broadcast by the NIS on 21 March. What are we doing to ensure that the shortage of German teachers in secondary education is addressed or reduced as much as possible? In the framework of the teacher agenda for further education, various generic measures are initiated to reduce deficits in particular. German is involved, but this also applies to economics, mathematics and, in a sense, to French. For example, we look at initiatives such as First De Klas, with which we try to interest students who have completed training in such a profession in order to get to work in education. In addition, a number of initiatives are specifically aimed at German. For example, the project runs from assistant to teacher German 1st degree through the European Platform. This is a two-year programme, organized by EP-Nuffic, in which native speakers from Germany and Austria are trained as first-degree teachers. It is a successful project that we want to further develop in 2015 and 2016. In addition, it is of course interesting to stimulate the enthusiasm for German among students. Mrs Straus, Mr Van Meenen and Mr Rog asked. I share the analysis that good control of German is important, especially for the children who come from school in the border regions and, for example, seek a job in technology or in care. On the other side of the border there are sometimes more and better jobs available than on the Dutch side. I think this bill will help with this. With this bill, we offer schools the opportunity and scope to do more German from group one, so to speak. In order to strengthen this, I would also like to make extra efforts in the border regions on German, so that students are prepared for their future in the best possible way. I will therefore ask EP-Nuffic, together with the schools in the border region, to identify exactly the obstacles to offering German and how they can be removed. Mrs Straus pointed out that schools run into obstacles, but I do not think we have enough to look at exactly what they are. So I'm gonna get a study on that. At least that is the beginning of a solution. In addition, I would like to do a number of things to link up a number of individual initiatives more closely. This way they can strengthen each other. I see very nice initiatives. For example, the obs Kotten from the Achterhoek works together with a German school from just across the border. In addition, this school works closely with teacher training specifically to strengthen German. In Limburg, there are more and more euregio schools that pay a lot of attention to German in the middle and upper classes. The Language Academy supports all of this. I notice that these are all loose projects and that things like teaching material or the knowledge about how you handle this well are available, but not known. I can play a role in better unlocking and linking these initiatives. I was just talking about primary school. Students are, of course, making the transition to secondary education, and continuity is always important, in the sense that there must be a continuous learning line so that children do not lose their knowledge and skills in primary education halfway through their study career. In secondary education, of course, there is much more room to offer German, especially in havo and vwo. In the vmbo, that space is not yet large enough. This is not unimportant, because there are a number of vocational training courses at this interface, particularly in the areas of care and technology. I am therefore exploring with a number of VMBO schools in the border region whether we can introduce German as a sector in sectors other than economics, where that is the case now. We'll see if we can do that in a number of other profiles. For example, this plays in the vo in the Achterhoek. Among other things, the Metzo College in Doetinchem has asked to offer German to students care and well-being. It plays at Quadraam, at Liemers College in Zevenaar. Those are all schools that want to work on that. I intend to give these schools that space by exempting schools that are now calling the bell. To look at this point more structuralally, I would like to include it in the letter received by the Chamber for the summer on flexibilisation in secondary education. In that letter, I inform the Chamber about the discussions I had with the VO Council, also in the context of the sectoral agreement in which the extension of legislation and regulation was put on the agenda in a more generic sense. We can then see whether space for German and French should not also be given an explicit place in it. Can we do anything to improve and speed up the integration of qualified teachers from France, Belgium and Germany into Dutch education, for example by working with dual recognition? At present, EP-Nuffic coordinates a number of pathways to prepare mother tongue-speaking German and French with an appropriate pre-training course, which is a teacher's training in the country where they come from, to prepare for an appointment as a teacher of German or French in Dutch education. We mainly look at shortened routes. I do think it is important that these teachers also qualified in the Dutch language before becoming a full teacher in the Netherlands. It is precisely in the foundational education that it is important that you, as a teacher, are able to make that translation and that you have some knowledge of how the Dutch education system works, if you want to include, for example, primary school children. There are a number of things that we might be able to improve. One is faster recognition of diplomas. This is true, for example, in the border regions where schools work together. It is also one of the themes I am currently discussing with my German colleague in North Rhine-Westphalia. We'll see how we can ease that up. We could look at whether we can use native speakers or native speakers to use a Dutch word for a while, as language assistants at school. They are not fully-fledged teachers. They have to do a number of other things for that, but they can then play an important role in supporting the teachers who are already in education. There are a few short questions left. Mr Bishop asked whether this bill had been discussed with Flanders. That did not happen about this bill, but it did in the run-up to the pilot for early bilingual education. Flemish experts have also been consulted. I come to Mr Bishop's amendment. I do not recommend this amendment because it does the following in relation to the current legislative proposal. It says: rule the languages on which you could broaden but in lower laws and regulations. I can also tell here in the Chamber that it is felt that English, French and German are at present the three languages on which it should be based. In fact, I think that this is consistent with the Law on Primary Education, in which it is now regulated. English, German and French are included as a target language, i.e. as a subject that can be given, in which English is mandatory and German and French are optional. With this legislative proposal, we are ensuring that these languages can also be used as language; we also know that it is an effective and proven method of learning the target languages. The regulation at AMvB of the allowed feed languages gives the advantage of flexibility but it would be strange to introduce a new language that is not also a target language. If you choose to add more languages, that actually requires an amendment of the law itself. So in that sense, the amendment does not add much and does not really offer any additional flexibility. On the contrary, it creates a little more confusion. That's why I wouldn't recommend it to the Chamber. Schools want to take steps with foreign language teaching to prepare their students for an increasingly international society. I think this bill will help them. It is a question of space that, if it is filled out responsibly and effectively, can, in my view, bring about beautiful things in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u71	I note the need for a second deadline for honourable Members. I give the floor to Mrs Siderius of the SP. Like the other spokesmen on behalf of the Chamber, it has one third of the speaking time used in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u72	Mr. Chairman. As a SP Group, we are really wondering whether we should be filling toddlers with French, German or English. We find it shocking that this debate is mainly based on the argument that the competitiveness of the Netherlands should be improved and that it is particularly important for our international trade that toddlers can already speak English, French or German. The SP has reservations about this and would prefer us to invest in education in the Dutch language. We think that's very useful for children. Precisely those children, that select group of students who pursue an international career, often learn the English language very quickly and adequately in grade seven and eight of primary education and in secondary education. There is no thorough study of the effects. We find it strange that all kinds of theories are involved that are not proven in underlying research. So we now have a bill that is more or less built on quicksand. I'll check in with the teachers. In the event of interruption, I asked twice about the legal possibilities. There was talk about the participation council, but the key question was not answered. If schools ask teachers to teach in the French language and if teachers refuse, what are the legal consequences? Maybe the Secretary of State hadn't looked into that yet; that could be possible. I would ask him, however, to inform the Chamber about this, which can be written before the vote on the legislative proposal. I don't know exactly when they are, but I'm guessing they're scheduled for this Thursday. Maybe the Secretary of State can be so kind as to put the legal consequences for us on paper. I shall table two more motions, which I shall read very soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it cannot be excluded that early foreign language education (vvto) at primary school is negative for pupils with learning difficulties or for pupils with language disadvantages in Dutch;]] [[Whereas it is unclear whether early foreign language teaching has a negative impact on education in schools with relatively more disadvantaged pupils;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the effects of early foreign language learning on disadvantaged pupils and on the effects on schools with relatively more pupils with (language) disadvantages, before the use of early foreign language education in primary schools is legally established,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the quality of English in teacher training can still be improved;]] [[noting that the quality of English of part of current teachers can also be increased;]] [[Whereas the English level of the teacher is important for the success of early foreign language education (vvto) at primary school;]] [[calls on the Government, first, to improve the quality of English on the pabo and to increase the possibilities for continuing training of English for sitting teachers, before it is decided to legally ensure the use of early foreign language education in primary schools,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34031-10]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34031-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u73	I have one more comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u74	Very briefly, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u75	We would like to vote on these motions before we vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u76	Very well, we're gonna take care of that for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u77	Mr. Chairman. I will not insist on extending it to 50% now, but I do have another proposal to make it possible for more schools. As we know, there's already an experiment going on. This motion is in line with that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that teaching in the English, French or German languages can make an important contribution to the bildung and the development of pupils' talents, particularly those in the border regions, can help to find a job;]] [[noting that a lack of knowledge of the languages of our neighbouring countries hampers the exploitation of economic opportunities by the Dutch business community;]] [[noting that the pilot offers bilingual education for 20 primary schools to offer at least 30% and up to 50% of their lessons in English, German or French;]] [[calls on the government to extend the pilot bilingual education to another 20 schools,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34031-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u78	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State very much for a number of fine commitments on the continuing training programme, which is included in the register, and for the attention he is going to give to the shortage of German teachers. I can't wait to see what he's coming up with. I am also very pleased with the commitment he has made on his commitment to local education. He just hasn't appointed a timeline, and I'd like to support it with a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that more and more parents and primary schools want to give their children and pupils an early international orientation, including learning a foreign language;]] [[Whereas, because of the small language area, the Dutch can make a difference to international knowledge and language skills;]] [[Whereas, in order to improve your position on the labour market in the border region, the management of the neighbourhood is indispensable;]] [[whereas it is also a sign of civilization if you try to speak the language of the neighbors;]] [[Considering that there are still many bottlenecks encountered in education when serious work is being done on local education;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with educational institutions in the border region already active in the field of local education and to develop a plan of action with them to stimulate local education in the Netherlands and to inform the Chamber of Justice about this before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Straus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34031-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u79	Mr. Chairman. I have one motion in second term. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that schools in primary education are allowed to teach lessons in English, French or German for 15% of the teaching time;]] [[noting that research has shown that this can be conducive to language learning in the second language;]] [[Whereas it is not sufficiently clear what effect the teaching of foreign languages has on the development of mastering the Dutch language, especially for pupils who are less linguistic or have learning disadvantages;]] [[calls on the Government to explicitly monitor the effects on the control of the Dutch language in schools where part lessons are taught in a foreign language and to inform the Chamber about the results in 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34031-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u80	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions and responding to our contribution. I would also like to announce that we are going to work on our amendment. I understand from the reaction of colleagues and the Secretary of State that the amendment may lead to unintended interpretations. It would be nice if we could take that away. That's what we're gonna do for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u81	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for answering our questions and for his explanation. However, we are not at all convinced of the usefulness and need of the law to give the englishment of our Dutch education ample employment. Moreover, the englishing of our national language becomes even more difficult than it already is. The end point will be that our children will soon not be able to write and speak Dutch, and that our children will not be able to speak English. Count out your winnings. To avoid that, I'm filing a motion. It is a motion that will discourage the Secretary of State and which all parties will vote against, because it is completely contrary to this law. However, I submit her, because I want the posterity to know that on Tuesday 24 March 2015 there was a patriotic party that wanted to fully preserve Dutch as a language of education and culture. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas multilingual education may be the first step towards further displacement of Dutch;]] [[Considers that this new law opens up the possibility of teaching entirely English speaking;]] [[calls on the Government to maintain the position of Dutch as a language of education and culture in its entirety and not to allow further ensnaring of the foundational education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34031-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u82	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for all the answers from the Secretary of State. I think we're taking a nice step today. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the possibility of teaching in German or French also creates obligations to guarantee quality;]] [[whereas there is a plan of action for English lessons and these are regularly monitored by the inspection;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that a plan of approach is drawn up for German and French lessons and that these lessons are monitored periodically by the inspection,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Ypma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34031-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u83	Mr. Chairman. Before I respond to the motions, I would like to comment briefly on a number of questions that have been raised and a number of comments that have been made. Mrs Siderius stressed once again with rather strong words that all of this has been very careless and that it is not based on research either. I have now referred a number of times to the preliminary study that has been carried out and I get the impression that Mrs Siderius has not seen this preliminary study at all. I don't know if that's true. Have you read it, Mrs. Siderius? It is really a very thick book, performed by Utrecht University with all... Have you seen that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u84	I object to this. I have even mentioned this research in my contribution, but apparently you have not really listened. Do you? I am a little annoyed by this, let me put it this way, because you probably didn't read the research that should have measured the language skills of these students. Or maybe you just read over page 22. What's this about? Can you not stand the fact that there are also groups in the Chamber who prefer to turn left again, rather than turn left, and sometimes turn right because there is more to it than the tunnel vision you are in, as a liberal ruler? I think it's really outrageous.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u85	Mrs Siderius again does not say that she has read it, so I assume that this has not been the case. Otherwise, she would not have made the point that there are only three studies, all three of which show that it has negative effects, as it cites 80 studies which indicate that it does have positive effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u86	I have cited three studies, including this one, and you have not even responded to the position I have taken from the study. I think it's really outrageous. It would really... that you treat a people's representative like that, I really don't think you can. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u87	I think this preliminary study shows that there are a lot of studies that do show that bilingual education has great positive effects. Mrs Siderius also asked what the legal or labour law consequences would be if a school switched to bilingual education. She also asked me to send a letter about that. I don't think the latter is necessary at all. If a school chooses, with the agreement of the participation council, to start teaching bilingually, the school board may ask its employees to make a contribution and to make an effort to participate in it. If that does not happen, it could lead to a labour dispute at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u88	So if a teacher at an elementary school refuses to teach French for four hours a week, that's a reason for dismissal. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u89	We're not here at the Binnenhof about grounds for dismissal. If a school chooses, with the agreement of the participation council so that teachers and parents have been involved, to move in a particular direction, that school may impose certain requirements on employees. Bilingual education is not very different from, for example, education with a certain educational vision. That's not so crazy at all. It begins with the demand to participate, for example, in continuing vocational training. To be honest, I don't think that's right at all. The motion-Siderius in part No. 10 is actually contrary to this bill, because it states that we need to do further research before adopting this bill. I would therefore advise against this motion. The same applies, in a sense, to the motion by Mr Siderius in part No. 11. This motion also assumes that this bill will be postponed even longer. I think that's unwise. In the Van Meenen motion on part No. 12 the government is invited to re-open the selection procedure for the schools in the next pilot, in order to allow more schools to participate. There was initially room for twenty schools. That's 18 years old. This had not to do with a lack of enthusiasm, but much more with the fact that it really requires some schools to do it well and thoroughly. Some of the plans were simply not well substantiated and did not pass through the selection procedure. I think it's also important to look at it a little critically. If you give schools more space and therefore more confidence, that must have been considered carefully. I would not be in favour of reopening that selection procedure now. I have a number of reasons for that. The schools that could then participate can only start on 1 August 2016. This isn't a matter of turning something together in three months. If you want to do it right, it takes a longer preparation time. That means that the tranche is lagging behind in this sense and can slow down the schools that are already in the process. That would be a shame to me, because it means that the schools that are going to work now have to wait for the schools that are going to be in that second tranche, or that the schools that are going to be in the second tranche do not contribute so much more to the evaluation that is to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u90	It is not clear to me why a new tranche would slow down the other schools. That doesn't have anything to do with the other schools, does it? They can just keep going, can't they? I also agree with the Secretary of State that the schools that meet the criteria could then start on 1 August 2016. They can participate in the experiment for at least three years, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u91	The first instalment starts next school year. A second tranche would start the school year after that. We ask the schools not only to organise it well within their school, but also to look at each other and learn from each other. That is complicated if some of the schools start already and some of the schools slow down. Moreover, if you want to say something about the effects of this bilingual education, you must have done it several years in a row before you can properly evaluate it. That evaluation and its results are foreseen in 2019. Then you've had a few years. This would mean that the evaluation for this school tranche could not take place until 2020. You can also say that it does not matter very much, but then this is in fact a further spread and a first step to broaden it already. Then it is no longer about the contribution that the second tranche is going to make to a deepening of the pilot investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u92	However, I do not think that is the case. The Secretary of State says that these schools will start next school year, but twelve schools are already participating and six will be participating next school year. So it's already got two tranches in it. I do not understand why a third tranche could not follow, because it is already in two tranches.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u93	The question is what a third tranche is going to add if you think you also need a number of years for a good evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u94	We will continue with the Secretary of State's reply. I hope he can comment on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u95	The motion in part No. 13 by Mrs Straus is very much in line with what I have already indicated in the first term. With this motion a hard deadline is attached, namely "for the summer." I think this should be possible. That is why I leave this motion to the Chamber. I am very much hesitant about Mr Rog's motion on item No. 14 and I think I'm gonna dissuade it. Mr Rog says that he does not want this bill to be at the expense of the quality of the lessons in Dutch and the level of Dutch pupils. We did not look at the effects on the back of this bill, but at the front. That is why we have started the pilots and have studied the international research in this area in depth. In that sense, this motion merely leads to an additional burden of supervision. I'm not sure we're getting along with that much. Well, I'd like to do two things. Firstly, I will look at what we can learn from inspection in secondary education, where bilingual education has been going on for a long time. If that calls for additional measures for schools wishing to start teaching bilingually in primary education, I am happy to take this with me. We are now making this possible for all schools, but, secondly, we will also keep our finger on the select group that is going to provide more bilingual education, namely 30% or 40%. That is the group that Mr Van Meenen and I have just discussed. If things come out there that are relevant not only for that group, but also for the group that is now working with that 15%, we can of course always discuss this in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u96	The Secretary of State once again says something that he had already promised in an earlier period, namely that what we learn from inspection supervision in secondary education. It is good that he will do so, but as far as I am concerned it also concerns the effects of the quality of teacher education. I would like to negotiate with the Secretary of State whether the results in 2018 or 2019, but the core of what I ask is not to go to jail with limited experiments from 2010-2012, but to check with several schools, which will undoubtedly deal with this, what it does with Dutch. That's what I'm attached to. Would the Secretary of State like to reflect on that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u97	That calls for an additional investigation. Studies are not free and it also requires extra effort from the schools. Moreover, schools are often already the subject of research. So I'm a little critical when it comes to another investigation. This is all the more so because, looking at the trajectory we have gone through to come to this bill, the preparation has been such that I am confident that it will work out. We've done the pilot and we're actually only seeing positive effects of that. We have international literature and we also see positive effects of it. And we have the regular inspection supervision that can always ring the bell at the level of the individual school when one sees that the language of children there is suddenly deteriorating. In my view, this provides sufficient tools to monitor the quality of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u98	I have to say that I am not getting out with the Secretary of State right now. I am really concerned about the vulnerable children who are less linguistic and who are disadvantaged in learning. We'll just have to take a look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u99	What is the verdict of the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u100	I'd like to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u101	Then this motion has been dissuaded. We now have the motions on the items Nos. 13 and 14. However, it is a bit playful to make the motions on the pieces nos. 10, 11 and 12 to skip. So the Secretary of State owes us that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u102	I think there's been a misunderstanding. The motions on the documents Nos. I have advised against 10 and 11 from Mrs Siderius. The motion in part No. 12 I have also advised against, because in my view it does not add so much to the tranche that is already running.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u103	Then we'll go to the motion in part no. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u104	Mr Beertema already guessed it. Dutch is and remains important, also with this bill. This doesn't change anything. I think we simply disagree on a basic point. This is contrary to the bill, which is why I advise against it. Finally, I come to the motion for a resolution on part No. 16, by Mrs Ypma. However, this requires some clarification. What we do for English is a handle for the English trade. This is different from bilingual education. The inspection will monitor the state of implementation of the core goal of English, which is a mandatory part of the curriculum in primary school. I think it is more important that this is also the line that the inspection has set out, that the monitoring with the thematic studies first looks at the mandatory elements in the curriculum, such as culture education, movement education and so on, before looking at the optional things in primary education, such as German and French. That is actually why I would like to discourage this motion. The motion gives much weight to the German and French electives, which are now possible in education, but which are given only in a few schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u105	The Secretary of State and I do not disagree that it is primarily important that the inspection should look at the compulsory subjects. That's how the Secretary of State can interpret the motion. However, I would like to insist that we take part in the single school, let us be honest about the fact that most schools opt for English. I find it strange to allow something like this also for German and French if it is not looked at at at all. Let's make it small. It's just a one-way school. I would appreciate it very much if the inspection in the first few years looked at the quality of education. The Secretary of State and I fully agree that priority should be given to compulsory subjects. However, it is nice if the inspection at that single school also looks into this non-compulsory subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u106	In any case, the inspection looks in full width at the quality of education. When things are going on, she makes comments about it. If it's really bad, a school can be considered weak. Mrs Ypma is actually asking for what we do in the field of English in these languages, and that is really a bit heavier than regular quality monitoring. That requires a plan of action, which we are now making specific to this. We'll take English with us in the periodic exam. We are not only doing it as we normally do with language and counting, but we are also going to zoom in specifically on other parts of the core goals. I must also be honest: the capacity of the inspection is limited on this point. I would rather choose to monitor the mandatory parts of the curriculum before looking at those few schools that this applies to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u107	Very good. However, I understand that the motion continues to be dissuaded. Mrs. Ypma, one more time. Third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u108	No, this is the second time I've asked about it. I find this remarkable. On the one hand, we allow 15% of the teaching time to be given in German, for example, for a lot of hours. On the other hand, we are not going to look at it, as we do for Dutch, English and actually for all subjects, or which are given in a good way. That capacity is limited, that's what I was just talking about. Of course, it's not about tens of thousands of schools. It's really about a single school. I think that if 15% of that time is to be given in German, for example, we should be able to look into this. Doesn't the Secretary of State agree with me a little?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u109	There's really been a misunderstanding here. There really needs to be a distinction. We have English, German and French as target language, so as a subject. We're not gonna settle that with this bill. What we will do with this bill is to make it possible to use English, German or French as a language in addition to Dutch. In addition, we are not going to watch English specifically extra. The plan of approach concerns English as a target language, as a subject in primary education. That is a compulsory subject in primary education. The bill is about the option to give some of the other subjects, such as history or gym, in English. No explicit plan of action is going to come forward for this. Nor will the additional monitoring of the inspection monitor monitor this. He's really watching the English class. I think there's been a misunderstanding in that sense. If you look at the subjects, you can see that English is mandatory. It's a very heavy part. This is also the case in secondary education, for example in the core subject scheme. German and French are really only electives in primary education, I say very disrespectful. That's different than the 15%. There are now also schools which do not give bilingual education at all and which do not opt for the 15% standard, but which do give the profession. I think the distinction between target language and language needs to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u110	I thank the Secretary of State for being here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-19.u111	The votes on the motions, the amendment and the legislative proposal will take place on Thursday.
