ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last Friday, the Dutch Association for Paediatrics presented its position on dilemmas at the end of life in children between 1 and 12 years of age to the outside world. A brave point of view. I would therefore like to express my appreciation to the pediatricians who have taken up this sensitive subject. The discussion about ending children's lives in our country is not today. This discussion arose because children, parents and pediatricians have been facing dilemmas for years when it comes to how to deal with the care around the end of the lives of children suffering unbearable and hopeless. In addition, the change in the legislation on ending children's lives in Belgium has raised questions in our country such as: how do we actually do it here and do the current euthanasia legislation still fit in with the reality that seriously ill children, their parents and pediatricians have to deal with on a daily basis? For the PvdA, the importance of seriously ill children is always paramount. Having said that, for children between 1 and 12 years old and unwilling older children, there is currently no possibility of active cessation of life, when palliative care is not sufficient for serious and hopeless suffering. There is currently no special scheme for these seriously ill children such as for newborns between 0 and 1 year old. In such a situation, a doctor cannot rely either on euthanasia legislation or on the existing system for newborns. Pediatricians experience this as a problem when treating children under 12 years of age. The Dutch Association for Paediatrics has now come up with a position. It asks for two things: to consider, as a test criterion for euthanasia, the real capacity of will rather than the calendar age of 12 years and to consider, for active cessation of children, the possibility of applying the existing scheme for newborns to children over one year of age who are not willing to do so. What does the Minister think of these two proposals from the NVK?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is terrible when children are affected by a serious, profound incurable disease; diseases that cause unbearable and hopeless suffering. The aim of the aid is to do everything for these children. Palliative care for these children in the final phase of life is crucial. We must do everything in our power to guide the child as best we can. However, palliative care cannot always provide sufficient relief. Last year I talked to you about active cessation of life in children between the ages of 1 and 12. The evaluation report of the Late Pregnancy Abruption and End of Life Infants Scheme found that there are no possibilities for this in children between 1 and 12. The termination of a newborn's life scheme applies to children up to 1 year old and euthanasia is only possible if the person asking for it can be considered willingly qualified. According to the law, this is from 12 years old. I have asked the Dutch Association for Paediatrics for advice and for a position on termination of life in children from 1 to 12 years of age. The Dutch Association for Paediatrics has come up with an opinion. I've waited over a year for it. That's not bad in itself, because care comes first. This advice was first presented to the media last week in draft form, which led to a full debate on this opinion last week. I didn't get that advice officially offered until yesterday. It's one day in my possession. With regard to medical-ethical issues, it is good practice that we first study such advice carefully, especially when it comes to such a profound and moving topic as ending children's lives under 12 years of age. I would not only like to examine the opinion in detail, but also to discuss it with my colleague from the Ministry of Security and Justice, who is co-responsible for the Euthanasia Act. I would perhaps like to ask a few more explanations, consult experts and then go to the cabinet with an informed response, because this issue simply does not lend itself to hastily adopting a position. The NVK has indicated that in practice there are bottlenecks to which it intends to conduct research. She informed me in her offer letter that she sees research as a first step in order to ultimately also be able to deliver tailor-made work to the children concerned. There is no discussion about this. We do not need to delay on this. In the general consultation held on 12 November last year, I said that I wanted to facilitate this research financially. I keep that promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-5.u3	I agree with the Minister that this is a complex issue which needs to be looked at with great care. We do not disagree on this. However, it is not a new issue. I asked written questions about this a year and a half ago. Mr Tellegen has also asked questions about this. In the last debate on euthanasia, I also asked questions about this. I can imagine that there are also legal aspects to this medical-ethical issue, but I would like to hear from the Minister whether she is prepared to present a position to the Chamber in the near future. This issue is not new; I assume that VWS has been thinking about this for years. Between the Minister's words, I hear that she acknowledges that there is a legal gap on this point. We have an arrangement for 0- to 1-year-olds and the euthanasia law for people from the age of 12. For the category for which the pediatricians stand, there is no regulation yet. This brings with it legal inequality. Does the Minister recognize that? I would like to see the Minister coming up with a position in September which also incorporates the result of the research currently under way on behalf of the Dutch Association for Paediatrics, so that we can have a thorough debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-5.u4	The NVK's research into bottlenecks in practice will take four years. The NVK considers this an important first step. At the NVK it is said that if we have not clearly identified the bottlenecks, we cannot deliver tailor-made work to children either. That's what we're gonna do. I will also provide the finance for this; there is no discussion about this. I've asked the NVK for advice. There are legal, ethical and practical aspects to this matter. We need to get that straight. September's in three months, but there's a summer recess in between. However, I will do my utmost to come to the Chamber in September with a reaction, in which I have been able to weigh these aspects well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-5.u5	I hope that we will get a response with solutions that do justice to the current practice, in which pediatricians, parents and children who suffer hopelessly cannot fall back on anything. So I do not expect a procedural letter, but a substantive letter, with a position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-5.u6	I am, of course, doing my best to come up with a substantive letter. This is a subject that runs through the cabinet. We will have to weigh this case carefully. I have heard Mrs Arib very well that she wants to have a position in September. I'm gonna do my best, but I can't say for sure that this is gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-5.u7	One of the topics from the thorough advice of the Dutch Association for Paediatrics is to ensure that, during the period in which this case has not yet been properly settled, the period in which the investigation is still taking place, life-threatening action can still take place in children if necessary. I would like to hear from the Minister whether she agrees with the NVK that the expert committee should be involved in a good arrangement during the period when the investigation is still taking place, so that people are not in the cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-5.u8	I'll take that into account in the reaction. In fact, the NVK says that it needs the research to be able to deliver customization. That investigation lasts four years. That's a long time. I can understand why people are wondering: do we have to wait four years? The NVK makes suggestions on how we could deal with this. I really need to consider these suggestions thoroughly, including in the cabinet. I am not only responsible for the Euthanasia Act; my colleague in the field of security and justice is also responsible for this. I don't mean to be annoying, but I only have one day left with the opinion on this important subject, so I think that the Chamber should give the Cabinet a moment to think about it. We do not want to come up with a position on this from the hip in Question Time the next day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-5.u9	I think it is very logical that the Minister would like to think very carefully about this first. This opinion was, of course, drawn up at the request of the Minister. So she may already have an idea about which direction she would like to go. I wonder whether the Minister is not in any way sympathetic to the advice of the NVK.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-5.u10	A problem had been identified in practice, namely that there was a gap in these schemes. I asked the pediatricians to tell me what we could do about it. The biggest and first thing they recommended to me in their offer letter is the investigation. That is also relevant to me; there is no discussion about it. For the rest, I want to weigh it well. Mrs Voortman is right that I asked for it myself, and I did it for a reason. I asked for it because I think that thinking does not stand still and that we should think carefully about it. That is what I want to do carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-5.u11	Of course, it's terrible if your child suffers so badly that it will soon die. Whatever laws we come up with, that grief and that pain we will never be able to take away. Last year, we saw that it's not very common in underage children. Is it not wise, then, to look at what bottlenecks exist in practice and whether there are any bottlenecks? Would the Minister like to look into that? Does she also want to look at the opportunities in the field of palliative care? I'm getting signals that there's still a lot to gain there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-5.u12	I'll do the first thing by honoring the investigation. I actually promised it to the Chamber last year. The second is something that we should always focus on with particular attention. Palliative care is incredibly important, no matter your age. That should be done as well as possible. I think we have recently made good progress by better organising and investing in it. So I agree with Mrs Dik.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-5.u13	I saw in Question Time's announcement that this oral question is based on a Twitter message. Especially on such a sensitive and far-reaching subject, I am pleased that the Minister wants a careful process and that she would like to take a good look at the opinion first. Is the Minister also prepared to hear from ethicists and lawyers the reservations about the route outlined and recommended by this association, so that all aspects of this discussion are taken into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-5.u14	I indicated in my response that I would like to speak not only with my colleague in the field of security and justice, but also with experts and other stakeholders. I want to take a good look at what this opinion means and where the risks and objections lie. So I'd like to do that on a well-considered basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-5.u15	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber.
