ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber. A special welcome to the Secretary of State for Security and Justice, who is defending his bill today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Let us be clear straight away: the CDA Group is in favour of this bill. Since the establishment of the then temporary Institution Law Council for the Application of Criminal Law and Youth Protection (RSJ) in 2000, a discussion has taken place on the combination of both the judicial and advisory tasks of the RSJ. It's kind of like the discussion about the Council of State. Some of the rulings of the European Court of Human Rights fueled this discussion. The legislative proposal contributes to a sharper exercise of these two tasks and thus does justice to the appearance of bias and bias. In the written round, the CDA Group asked questions on this aspect, as well as on the number of members, the incompatibility with membership of the Supreme Court, the connection with the bill on electronic detention which has now been voted down in the First Chamber and the proposed cassation in the interests of the law. These questions have all been answered satisfactorily. Today, the CDA Group wishes to address the criteria to be taken into account by the complaint committee of the Supervisory Board and by the RSJ Professional Committee in assessing the freedoms of detainees. New are the "security of society" criteria and "the interests of victims and survivors." The CDA Group is very content with these newly formulated approaches. This also does justice to what is currently happening in society. In this way, decisions on external freedoms of detainees take greater account of the feelings of victims and survivors about the granting of freedoms. This makes it possible to deliver customization. For example, a prisoner may be eligible for work outside the establishment, but it may be desirable not to do so in a particular place, in order to avoid a confrontation with the victim. These are sensible adjustments to the freedoms that can be granted to detainees. I have a few specific questions about the way the victims are portrayed. A central role in this is the Information Point Detention Progress (IDV), which is located at the Public Prosecutor's Office. The IDV maintains contact with the establishments, with Victim Help The Netherlands and, more importantly, with the victims themselves. However, the communication of the IDV to the victims has been a concern for many years. For example, relatives were fairly coldly informed by a simple note about, for example, the release of a murderer. The Aankeit Doet Voorken Foundation has successfully asked attention to this phenomenon. In November 2014 it was announced that the IDV will now contact the victims by telephone on this type of matter. The CDA Group would like to know from the Secretary of State how this happened in the first months of November 2014 and whether in all cases personal contact was desirable and actually and correctly contacted the victims. The CDA Group would also like to know exactly how the IDV works after a criminal case. The note following the report states that victims and survivors may themselves contact the IDV, even in cases where the IDV itself had not yet contacted them, i.e. the victim's initiative. The CDA Group is not entirely satisfied with the latter. Does the IDV itself initiate a conversation with the victims or relatives to identify their needs, or does this only happen at the request of victims and survivors themselves? So the question is: is there a proactive attitude of the IDV? I would like to receive confirmation from the Secretary of State that the call will take place in good time and in good time. I have another question about the involvement of victims in the process. The Press Office reported this month, on 14 February, that 25% of the reports involving a victim do not receive any information from the police. It's important that things go well from the start. This is about 55,000 cases. Furthermore, it appears that in a quarter of cases where data have been transmitted, the information is not usable because wrong data has been provided. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. It is just at the beginning that it is important that victims do not disappear from the picture, but get the help they need and that the government indicates what they can do best. Finally, I would like to say a few words about two pilots that were launched in 2014. There is a red light here, Mr President, but I think I have plenty of time. This is a pilot in the prison system, which is aimed at the transparent consideration of the interests of victims and survivors in granting leave and conditional release. A pilot was also started at the parole board. This pilot focuses on the transparent consideration of the victim's interests in the probation advice by contacting employees of the probation service and employees of Victim's Aid Netherlands. The CDA Group would like to hear from the Secretary of State how these pilots have been carried out so far and when the Chamber can look forward to their final evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the Criminal and Youth Protection Council and the new institution law for this Council. The Board has two tasks: advice and justice. The Council for Criminal Application and Youth Protection advises the Minister of Security and Justice on the application and implementation of policies and regulations in the fields of criminal law application and youth protection. However, the RSJ also has the right to appeal against a judgment of the Complaints Commission or to decide at first and only instance on appeals of detainees, posted persons and young people. The evaluation reports in 2004 and 2010 show that the RSJ generally performs both tasks well. However, there have been several developments since the establishment of the RSJ, including developments in the case law of the European Court of Human Rights and in society, which affect the performance of the same tasks of the RSJ. This bill, the new institutional law, addresses these developments by making three major changes. First, this bill provides for a sharper organisational separation between the advisory function and the judicial function of the RSJ. Thus, in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights, it is legally established that the same persons do not judge the same case in the proceedings as they have previously advised on the legislation. Judgments of the European Court of Human Rights also require this change. Mr Oskam referred to this as well. Following this change, there will remain one umbrella council to which both tasks are assigned, but there will be two separate sections for advice and case law respectively. The general work of that umbrella board shall be carried out by a board. In total, the Council will be able to have a maximum of 15 members. These advisory and judicial functions will be exercised by the members of the RSJ, while the extraordinary members of the RSJ cannot be appointed to both sections. The members can do that. The VVD Group is in favour of the sharper separation of the tasks of the RSJ. However, this separation does not go far enough for my group. In my opinion and that of my group, the appointment of members in both sections is undesirable. That is why, together with Mr Van Nispen of the SP Group, I have tabled an amendment to prevent the appointment of new members and the re-appointment of members at the end of their term of office in both sections. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. It is also not yet clear to the VVD Group how it is ensured in practice that the Board of the RSJ does not intervene in the procedure, the substantive assessment and the decision in a specific case. Is it true that four of the five board members are head of a section, like Youth or Inmates? Can the Secretary of State explain again how it works in practice? In short, how exactly do the regulations work out in practice? Then, according to the Secretary of State, why is it not necessary to regulate this by law, and indeed the rules are sufficient? Secondly, this legislative proposal more explicitly incorporates the interests of the victim and his family and the safety of society as a basis for scrutiny.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u4	I have another question to ask Mr van der Burg about the amendment, which my group is also sympathetic to. Does that amendment make any difference to the President? In fact, I read in the proposed Article 23 of the legislative proposal, which the chairman of the council is also the chairman of the advisory section. And the proposed Article 27 states that the President shall govern the work of the case-law section. I do not read about this in the explanatory statement to the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u5	As far as we are concerned, that does not matter to the President, because I also understand that the chairman is the one on the board who will not have specific tasks and is therefore completely independent. If we have to make another adjustment to make this absolutely clear because this is not enough, we are fine with it. As we have understood, the amendment is now in order, but should the Secretary of State say, in response to Mrs Helder's remark, that it needs to be adjusted, we will gladly do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u6	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u7	Secondly, this legislative proposal more explicitly incorporates the interests of the victim and his family and the safety of society as a basis for scrutiny. These interests should therefore also be taken into account in the RSJ's decision-making framework. The VVD Group welcomes that. We are very much in favour of this. By including, among other things, the interests of the victim and the next of kin as a basis for scrutiny in the RSJ's decision-making framework, the advice and case law of the RSJ are better suited to developments in criminal law. This is important, among other things, when deciding on the granting of leave, Mr Oskam said a few words about what is to be done and, above all, about the way in which this leave may be organised. In line with this, I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State for Security and Justice on the fact that the Bokaal against Unlaw was handed over to him on 23 January 2015 in connection with his efforts to strengthen the position of the victim and the next of kin. That is a good recognition for all the work that this Secretary of State has done in recent years to do the position of victims and survivors much more justice in law and in court. Thirdly, this bill allows the Attorney General at the Supreme Court to bring an action in the interests of the law against the rulings of the RSJ. He may then ask the Supreme Court to rule on legal issues such as the interpretation of legal provisions. In this way, legal form and unit of law are served. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is also in favour of this. It is important to note, however, that the possible destruction by the Supreme Court of a judgment does not alter the rights and position of the parties in the case in question. In the interest of the law, there is no legal effect on the parties concerned. In conclusion, the VVD Group strongly supports the three amendments made to the new Institution Law Council on Criminal Law Application and Youth Protection. The organisational separation of the RSJ's advisory and judicial role does not go far enough for my group. That is why she has tabled an amendment with the SP Group to make double nominations impossible. I have also asked the Secretary of State to explain how it is ensured that the Board of the RSJ does not intervene in the procedure, the substantive assessment and the decision in a specific case. I look forward to being answered by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I welcome the fact that there is a further division between the advisory section and the case-law section. The appearance of partiality may arise as soon as the authority which has to rule in a dispute with the government has previously advised the same government on the same or similar issues. In order to avoid the appearance of partiality, it is good that a different section should speak out than the section that has previously delivered an opinion on this question of law. The comparison with the Council of State has, of course, been made quickly. That has already happened in this debate, but my group has also noted this in the written preparation. Although I acknowledge that there are differences between the Council of State and the RSJ, and therefore, strictly speaking, there may not be any need to regulate it identically, I note that the debate on the structure of the Council of State has been reopened and still needs to be conducted fairly recently. The government has come up with a proposal to make double appointments to the Council of State completely impossible. We will discuss this on 1 April in a general consultation and then in the discussion of the legislative proposal. In this context, I find the remark made by the Secretary of State in the note on the report that he does not wish to prejudge the parliamentary examination of the Law on the Council of State somewhat difficult to make. After all, we are now also discussing the law on the structure of the RSJ, the Institution Act of the Council for the Application of Criminal Law and Youth Protection. I do not think it is a good idea to consider whether further steps are necessary and desirable at the time of the assessment in five years' time. We must not wait for problems to arise in practice. In order to prevent a member of the RSJ from having to judge the same case as was previously advised by him or her, the so-called "same case" issue, it is better to ensure that there are no double appointments. So you're a member of either the advisory department or the justice department. That is why I have co-signed Mrs van der Burg's proposal of the VVD for this purpose. The RSJ itself is critical of the involvement of the Minister of Security and Justice in the establishment and organisation of the RSJ. The Secretary of State replies that this is a regular use of state law which reflects the ministerial responsibility for the royal appointment decision. I understand that, but the RSJ itself wrote: we now appoint the President of the Court of Justice and the importance of independent justice calls for this situation to be maintained. Can't the Secretary of State respond to that again? Why does this need to be changed? Do I understand correctly the Secretary of State that the RSJ's influence on the appointment of its own President of the Justice Department is increasing compared to the current situation? What about the president of the RSJ, who is also chairman of the advisory section? I read in the reply in the note following the report on page 5 almost at the bottom that the RSJ can make a recommendation to the President to be appointed. But I do read Article 5 in the bill differently. It says that the council is being heard. But being heard is something other than making a recommendation, isn't it? What exactly is it about? Can the Secretary of State explain this further? I can certainly imagine something when it comes to extending the grounds for scrutiny. This proposal explicitly lays down in the law that penalties should also be applied in respect of the interests of victims and their families, as well as the safety of society. That, of course, is not an unreasonable sentence in itself. You can hardly argue with that. The question, however, is whether this change is not already being taken into account and to what extent it is therefore necessary. Is it an explication of something that is already there or an extension and a substantive shift? Has the Secretary of State intended to shift interests with this change of law? In future, will we take less account of the interests of detainees? If I read the answers correctly, that does not seem to be the case, but I am happy to hear it. Is it now sufficiently regulated that in practice the wishes and needs of victims are always known to the authorities which have to take decisions at the stage of implementing the deprivation of liberty sanctions? So I am not talking about the law and whether we are dealing with it properly, but about cooperation and the exchange of information between the different bodies in practice. I had doubts about the introduction of cassation in the interests of the law. I can see the advantage of promoting the legal unit, but there is also a disadvantage: members of the Supreme Court can no longer be members of the RSJ, and that can now be done. Since this disadvantage in practice is only a very small disadvantage, I understand that it concerns only two people.... I think I will allow the benefit of this proposal to be decisive. So I agree with this proposed part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mr Van Nispen is a co-signatory of Mrs Van der Burg's amendment. The RSJ says it needs 25 double members. How does Mr Van Nispen assess that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u10	I can imagine that somewhere from the RSJ. That's how it's arranged right now, and that's how they'd like to keep it. We dealt with the Council of State Act in 2007. In doing so, we have divided the Council of State into a consultative and judicial department. I remember very well the resistance of the Council of State at that time. This has not, in the end, caused any problems; it has been very smooth in practice. But now that a further step is being taken, we are once again not happy with it. From an organization that has to change, I can imagine something that she'd rather leave it to the old. In principle, however, we think it would be better to advise on points of law and to rule on the same points of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u11	We are not talking about the Council of State, which I mentioned myself because that discussion is about the same. We're talking about the RSJ now. He himself says that we really need it in order to carry out the tasks properly, but we ourselves are also very capable of countering the appearance of conflict of interest. I would like to receive a response from Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u12	I just gave that reaction. In addition: I do believe that the RSJ itself can be able to prevent that as well as possible. But I think it's purely a legal separation. I do make the parallel with the Council of State because I recall that resistance was there at the time. So I can see that parallel. From an organization that needs to change, I imagine she'd rather leave it at that. It is not mistrust towards that organization that she would be doing it wrong at the moment. But I would simply like, together with Mrs van der Burg, to avoid any difficult dilemmas for the future and to ask whether something is the same kind of case law on which to judge, or not. You could also say: you will only make it easier for this organization to separate it more purely and more strictly in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mr. Chairman. Before I discuss the content of the legislative proposal, I will give a brief introduction to the Criminal and Youth Protection Council, which I will refer to as the RSJ. There are people in the public gallery who, of course, want to know what we are talking about. Well, at least that's what I'm assuming. The RSJ has two tasks. Firstly, that is to advise the Minister and the Secretary of State on the application and implementation of policies and regulations in the field of criminal law and youth. Secondly, he has a judicial role: the RSJ decides on the professions of detainees, posted persons and young people. In short, the RSJ uses the criteria for assessing whether the public authorities have acted in a legally correct manner and in accordance with the principles of sound management. Since the establishment of the RSJ, there have been several developments, including several colleagues who have already said so in the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. Those developments have an impact on the performance of the tasks of the RSJ. They have led to various changes in the organisation of the RSJ, such as transferring the supervisory task to the Security and Justice Inspectorate. In these various developments, the RSJ itself has also seen reason to change the organisational structure in a number of respects. The legislative proposal we are discussing today is the final part of this, as both the advisory and the judicial role of the RSJ will be further strengthened. To this end, three amendments to the legislative proposal are proposed. Firstly, there will be a sharper separation between the advisory function on the one hand and the judicial function on the other. In fact, they become two separate, equivalent departments. Second, the grounds for review for the case-law are supplemented by the RSJ. It is more explicitly stated that the interests of victims and survivors and the safety of society must be taken into account in the decisions taken by the RSJ. Thirdly, the Attorney General is given the opportunity at the Supreme Court to bring an action in the interests of the law against judgments of the RSJ. In the past, decisions taken by the RSJ, to say the least, did not really have the sympathy of my group. Then you should always give examples; let me highlight two. Firstly, of course, that is Volkert van der Graaf's probationary leave. Even the secretary of state didn't want to do this, but the RSJ's professional committee decided, on 10 September 2013, that leave should be granted to Volkert van der Graaf. And so it was. Secondly, after a ruling by the RSJ, although the State Secretary himself indicated that he did not agree with this, in 2011 the life-long sentenced child killer Koos H. could move from prison to a lighter regime in the TBs. I can go on for a while, Mr President, because this list of statements is not exhaustive. For the enthusiast: check out the website of the RSJ itself. He put a video on YouTube. In that you can see a bit of the world weirdness and sometimes even meddling of the RSJ. On a working visit I was confronted with it myself, because during a working visit with my policy staff at a prison I saw a meters high ivy along the wall. To the question to which it served, we received an answer: this is on the advice of the RSJ, because prisoners must be able to see the seasons. Yeah, a nice point, but is this supposed to be an official task? As far as my group is concerned, it is not. Anyway, the bill doesn't seem so bad at first. As I mentioned earlier, the legislative proposal stipulates that the interests of victims and survivors and the safety of society will henceforth be more explicitly taken into account as a basis for scrutiny in the implementation of the freedom-making and freedom-limiting sanctions and measures. As far as my group is concerned, that is what is urgently needed. I have an example of this too. A majority of the Chamber already found in 2007 that life sentences are not entitled to leave. An attempt to withdraw the leave of absence of multiple murderer Cevdet Yilmaz through the new law failed because the RSJ stopped doing so. According to the RSJ, the new law did not apply to old cases. No appeal against that judgment was possible. A new attempt in 2009 by the then State Secretary to deprive Mr Yilmaz of his leave, because research had shown that survivors and victims were seriously injured by the leave, failed by the RSJ. He said that a criminal can only be deprived of the chance of leave if new facts or circumstances arise which would not have allowed that leave to be granted. As far as my group is concerned, the interests of victims are always at the top. We will never know for sure, but there is a very good chance that the event in my example would not have occurred if the RSJ had been kept in the assessment to account for the interests of the victims and the relatives. So I come to a conclusion: my group believes that the legislative proposal is necessary and can accept it. Finally, a word of thanks to the Secretary of State, because in response to questions from my group, he has included in the legislative proposal the obligation for members and the extraordinary members of the RSJ to mention all their relations and ancillary relations. In this way, transparency about (ancillary) relations between these members is also guaranteed by law. Finally, I would like to say a word about the amendment tabled by Mr Van der Burg and Mr Van Nispen. As I said in an interruption, my group is in favour of this. Organizative separation is a step in the right direction, but an end to double appointments is better. We are therefore in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr. Chairman. The RSJ abbreviation is now known, because today we are talking about the judges who are talking about detention.... is a silent force in the legal Netherlands. He is a silent force in the sense that people in the field, professionals, know the RSJ. The RSJ the Verwey-Jonker Institute has also established that... is just a good club, doing good work. However, in the broad debate in the newspaper, the RSJ only points out in exceptional cases that media attention is given to this. Volkert van de Graaf has already been mentioned in that regard. My group also congratulates the RSJ. Again, he's doing his job well and he's the last, highest judge. Occasionally, the board makes statements that not everyone agrees with. The PVV Group has just mentioned this. I know the Secretary of State sometimes wonders what the Supreme Court is doing now. Anyway, it's the highest judge, and then you're gonna have to accept it. I have looked at this proposal with those eyes, in the sense that it will not be a legislative proposal that will interfere with the element of the highest court. In particular, that last point of the three amendments must be considered critically: the possibility of cassation in the interest of the law. That is an option that can only be set up by the Attorney General of the Supreme Court. In the context of the legal unit, that is simply a very good addition. I therefore think that even that point is a good change, and I will support it wholeheartedly. In fact, as far as I am concerned, we can follow this good example and possibly change it in the same way in the future in other public institutions, within the framework of administrative law. By the way, we will talk about this later when it comes to the Council of State. There are three amendments. I have already approved the first amendment. The second amendment concerns the organizational division. Again, we are talking about analogy, comparability with the Council of State. Of course, that comparison doesn't go far enough. The Criminal and Youth Protection Council is a smaller organisation. The RSJ himself says: be careful not to throw the child away with the bath water. At the moment when you no longer allow these double appointments in a way that this bill does........................................................................................................................................................................................ The quality is, of course, an extremely relevant argument. However, I have doubts, to be honest, because I think it is a point of principle. That principle is that advice and case law do not go hand in hand. Also from the perspective of the average Dutchman that should not be mixed. You shouldn't think: yes, but the judge says this because he has previously advised it, and vice versa. At the Council of State, we consider this to be an important point, and that is what I think here too. With regard to the VVD and SP amendments, I still have doubts. I am very curious to know what the Secretary of State will say about this. The next amendment concerns the consideration of victims' interests. According to the RSJ itself, this change is unnecessary, because the RSJ already does. Yeah, I bet you do. So the question is whether you should support that change. In principle, I say 'yes', because even if you do, it doesn't hurt to give it a legal basis at all. Still, there was a doubt in my mind. If you dismiss the interest of the convicted person against the victim's interest, you may miss or forget a very great interest, namely that resocialisation outside the institution is not only in the interest of the offender, but perhaps even in the interest of society to a very important extent. Of course, you don't want this unsub to repeat himself. You want to get him back in society in a good way. You want to get him back so good, he doesn't make any new victims. That is why these external freedoms, externally in the sense of outside prison, must be taken into account as an important objective, regardless of the interests of victims and offenders in the concrete case. The answer given by the Secretary of State to our written questions reassured me, moreover, that this interest is also meant and taken into account in this legislative amendment. In that context, I would like to say a little more precisely that I can imagine that a victim does not want to be confronted with the perpetrator. I think that bans on territory and contact are very good measures, because they take into account the interests of both.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u15	Is it indeed the intention of this change of law that this kind of customisation should be more firmly anchored in the law, in which the interests of all parties are thus taken into account? I assume that it is not the intention to say: RSJ, you are not doing your job so far. Did I get that right? Finally, I have the question that Mr Van Nispen also asked about the Minister's involvement in the appointment of the Presidents of both sections of the Council. The RSJ writes about it: we actually only have one ruler to do with and that relationship is fine. It must be carefully organised to keep the situation independent. According to the Council, a legally established combination of both Presidencies is not advisable from that point of view. It may be left to the Board itself to appoint a chairman for each of the two sections. Secretary of State, can you respond to this letter from the RSJ and convince us that independence is maximum guaranteed, even within the organisation? If you can do that, then we see a fine bill for us, an improvement in the current situation. As has been said, we are still thinking about the amendment and are very curious about the answers. By the way, I see that we now have a new President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u16	Madam Deputy Acting Chairman. The Council of Criminal Law and Youth Protection shall ensure that this State Secretary and the Minister deal correctly with detainees, tbs and young people. The board does that well, as is shown by several evaluations. The D66 Group also appreciates the Council's legislative advice, but the question is whether that appreciation is to the same extent for this Secretary of State, because the Council regularly goes down its street with the state-law broom. A number of things have already been mentioned, for example their own contribution to prisoners. The council said that's counterproductive. I'll mention the traffic lights in the detention regime. The council said, contrary to the principle of re-socialization. I refer to the cuts in prisons. What did the council say? That leads to more recidivism. I call it juvenile justice. The council: that does not make the Netherlands safer. The council gives good, hard advice, which sometimes runs counter to the intentions of this Secretary of State. There's more to it. The Minister for Security and Justice will also be under the sharp eye of the Council, if he is given the direction of the Chamber on the implementation of all criminal decisions. If this Secretary of State puts on the table a proposal to reorganize the Council, then my group draws up one eyebrow in the first place: what exactly does he intend to do? Does this Secretary of State want to strengthen the council or does this Secretary of State want to paralyze the council, just to outline these two extremes? In my group's view, such a reorganisation, such a change, should only aim to strengthen the council. I see a small sweat drop on the Secretary of State's forehead, but I think it's his intention to strengthen the council. What is striking is that the Council itself is not quite convinced of this. There are serious objections and obstacles to the proper functioning. One even speaks of an outright system threat. It seems to be an institutional law without the support and support of the council itself. And that does not seem to us to be a wise path. I invite the Secretary of State to indicate how the discussion with the council went. How did he respond to the serious objections? Colleagues said that the legislative proposal actually regulates three things: the division, the extension of the grounds for review and the cassation in the interests of the law. I'm just gonna walk by. Advice and case law are divided into two sections, by analogy with the Council of State. My group agrees with this sharper separation. This naturally benefits independence and impartiality. The legislative proposal also mentions synergies, cost savings, facilities and ICT, joint support and knowledge building. Those are all kinds of valid considerations. Since the Council of State is on the cabinet nomination to be further split into two, this is extremely interesting. In fact, this is already a kind of preamble to the bill that we are about to receive. If there is a majority in favour of that bill, the members of the Council of State will know where they stand. As I understand it, the council is not really that good about the choice. There is also no connection to proposals made by the RSJ in 2012. Can the Secretary of State explain on what points and for what reasons he has made a different choice? I'm speaking on behalf of the council. The power of the council is its versatile composition. However, the number of its members will be substantially reduced, from 61 members to 15 members later, while the tasks will of course not be reduced. Would the Secretary of State like to explain again why he did so? Can he promise that this will not lead to all kinds of capacity problems? I have reread the passage on the budgetary implications, possibly to the detriment of the Council or to the benefit of the Council. Would the Secretary of State like to go into this again? Three quarters of the members can disrupt the performance of an advisory and judicial body. What's with the big fall? And what problem does that have to solve? That is the central question. Expertise nourishes the quality. Isn't sufficient basic expertise based on the fact that the council now has it and doesn't need to involve external advice? Double membership, i.e. membership of both sections of the council, is possible, but is considerably discouraged and can even be excluded by Royal Decree. For extraordinary members, double membership is excluded anyway. The argument to prevent the same case from being dealt with by the same Member in both advice and case-law is, of course, valid. We are all in favour of this. What, however, remains of the other argument in the bill that double membership also benefits quality? It is important for the Secretary of State to give a clear answer, given the amendment of the VVD and the SP. How heavy does the quality argument weigh? As a result, the term of appointment of two times six years goes to three times four years. I've had that working on me for a while. What does that get, other than red tape and hassle? The initial proposal was to do it for two times four years, but the Secretary of State came over and made it three times four years. In my view, it all remains the same, so I wonder if that adjustment was still necessary. Moreover, how does this relate to all kinds of other advisory councils and case law? I tend to come up with an amendment if the answer to these questions is not sufficiently harsh. 'Cause I think it's weird. It can just last twice six years. The grounds for review are the second point. The interests of the victims and survivors and the safety of society must be explicitly taken into account in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u17	If it's lead for old iron, isn't your amendment as superfluous as the amendment the Secretary of State would have made?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u18	My point is the administrative burden. You have to start some kind of procedure every four years to re-appoint someone. That seems to me to be an extra tax. In the overall reappointment procedure, you should do it twice, and now you're doing it three times. What do you need that for? What is the problem with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u19	I am curious about that too, but I thought I heard Mr Schouw say: what are we doing at all? Then it is unnecessary twice, but let us wait for the answer to that question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u20	I get it. The original proposal was to reduce the total duration to eight years; then you do two times four. In an adjustment, it has been 12 years. Then you might as well make it two times six, unless there's an argument that I don't know and that's so convincing... I see the Secretary of State thinking: what argument should I make immediately? I had stayed with the grounds for review and the role of the victims. It is, of course, fantastic to take that point explicitly. However, I think that I should also ask the question as to what problem this should solve. Is that not being taken into account at the moment and, if so, what is it showing? I have read the Council's opinion on this point again, but nowhere does it appear that the interests of the victims and survivors are not sufficiently taken into account in the general wording currently contained in the law: all eligible interests. Why should this be taken now, other than that of course it sounds good? What problem should it solve? If you take this explicitly, don't you take a little balance out of the equation? I would also like to say this in the light of Mr Recourt's comment on this point. On the one hand, I am of course sympathetic to it, on the other hand, you must dare to be critical of it. Much has already been said about cassation in the interests of the law. There is also something to be said for that in principle. Only I would point out to the Secretary of State that the Supreme Court warns against overstretched expectations. Cassatie in the interest of the law is not intended to repeat the specific case before the Supreme Court, so in many cases the Supreme Court will not go further than that the Council does not give a false view of the law and that it cannot, for the rest, assess the matter. This is also a little in line with the criticism of the Council of State, which also says: what is the problem to be solved, because in practice we see very few problems with it. What's to be solved with this? Can the Secretary of State go into that again? My group supports the firm guarantees of the independence and quality of the Council. We feel very strongly that this is also the intention of the cabinet. If the Secretary of State gives satisfactory answers on behalf of the cabinet, I will give a positive advice to my group on this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u21	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Members for their willingness to speak today on the legislative proposal. Thank you also to the Chamber for the speed with which it has taken up the examination of the bill. It took us some time. We have thought very carefully, just to answer a question from Mr Schouw straight away. There are quite a few consequences. You can't really speak of collusion, because of course it's a separate bill with another organization, the Council of State. Still, there's some coincidence in it. It is indeed important to strengthen both the advisory and the judicial role of the RSJ. Mr Schouw had asked for this. We certainly talked about it with the RSJ in the run-up period. If you go through the three points of the bill, it turns out that they are strictly substantive points that do not affect the organisation. They are about the security of society and the interests of victims who are explicitly included as the basis for scrutiny. The RSJ says he already weighs these points. It is, of course, the case that now the weighting and the search for the balance sheet is also explicitly reflected in the decisions of the RSJ, as the criminal court also does at first and highest instance. At least that's what the bill is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u22	There is already a question from Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u23	Yeah, that's pretty fast, but it's about this point. The RSJ has to take it into account, but he says he already does. Yeah, I bet you do. The Secretary of State says that this must be demonstrated by the reasons for the decisions. That's all fine. But will the RSJ be given the necessary information to take it into account? Is the RSJ so informed that he can take into account restraining orders and restraining orders, all matters that may be relevant?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u24	It is, of course, the responsibility of the decision-making bodies to provide complete information. They may also be lawyers of the other party who submit a decision to be taken. For the matters for which I am responsible, the Judicial Institutions Service is the main supplier of information. The Judicial Institutions Department is obliged to provide the information. You can only expect decisions from a court of law if the parties provide the information necessary to make the decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u25	It is good to hear that the Justice Department always gives the information. However, this means that other parties do not always provide the information. However, we want the RSJ to always assess the information. Can the Secretary of State consider how to improve the provision of information to bodies other than the Judicial Institutions Office?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u26	It also happens that the Judicial Institutions Department, the State, does not do so and that a decision is held by the RSJ, or that an interim decision is taken stating that the State must provide further information. If there is an omission, it will be included in the decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u27	Does the Secretary of State have facts and circumstances showing that in the past the Council did not take sufficient account of the interests of victims?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u28	No, I have the impression that the board certainly takes into account the interests of society and the victims. It is true, as Mrs Helder said, that my view as Secretary of State is not always the same as that of the Council. But that can be done in an adult democracy and a mature rule of law. It is certainly true that the Council also takes into account the interests of society and the victim. However, there is nothing against this proposal, which is a bit the thrust of this legislative proposal if it is sometimes explicitly stated. Today, we expect our criminal courts, looking at the right to speak and at other matters for which the D66 Group has rightly drawn attention in the past, that judgements explicitly state how this is taken into account and how the weighting of interests has taken place. In this case, you can expect from the RSJ that it is very concretely stated why, for example, resocialisation should be an important and important factor. That's what the council does. I do not have the impression at all that this is not happening, but I would be happy for society, victims and relatives if that is expressed explicitly if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u29	There is no problem at present in this respect, because now this balance of interests is sufficient and adequate. It is above all a wish, which I can share with this Secretary of State, to pay more explicit attention to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u30	I think Mr Schouw is right about that. At a time when we have become much more transparent, Mr Oskam and others talked about this and when criminal decisions, as well as decisions of judicial lectures, are clearly explained, you can see that acceptance in society is greater. The Chamber must see that transparency is increased. That's what this bill is about. It is good that the Council itself says that it should take this into account and I do not have the impression that it is not, but sometimes it is good that this is reflected in the decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u31	I have seen that the RSJ itself has no objection to this being explicitly incorporated into the law. I have also said that I do not find it incomprehensible that the interests of victims and survivors and the safety of society as a whole should be taken into account. But just to be safe, the next question. The note on the report remains in the middle, whether it is an explicitation of something we are already doing or some kind of shift of interest. Does the Secretary of State intend to shift interests in the sense that in future less account should be taken of the interests of detainees and more attention should be paid to those of the victims or society as a whole? Or is it written down what is already happening in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u32	I think it's and-and. In today's society, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and That's not new; it's been that way for a while. In criminal matters, we see that it is important that this is expressed, so that victims and relatives can see that this weighting has also taken place explicitly. It is not important that it shifts, because I do not believe that the interest of the convicted person in re-socialization is immediately at the expense of that of a victim or of a next of kin. Mrs Helder mentioned a concrete example: if someone is resocialising and coming into the vicinity of the victim and/or next of kin, it must be stated in that decision that this has been taken into account. I do not have the impression that that was Mr Schouw's question that this is not happening at the moment. However, I do believe that there should be more transparency and that the judgement can sometimes be better expressed. That is the purpose of this bill. The second point is the possibility of bringing an action in the interests of the law. The third point is the organisational structure of the board: the separation of the advisory and the judicial functions. I welcome the support expressed by several Members for this bill. It is important, however, to take those points together. I would point out that there is also transitional law in this bill. The Chamber has already given this side-by-side attention. This means that if members are now appointed to both sections, it will remain in place until they have to be re-appointed or people re-appointed. Mr Schouw asked whether we had discussions with the Council on how we are going to do this. It is not the case that this legislative proposal is being separated from one another in absolute terms. That's not gonna happen. However, this subject will play a role in the appointment of new members and the re-appointment of current members. Some comments have been made, and not so much questions asked, about the plea in cassation in the interest of the law. Why is that necessary? As Mr Recourt said, it is important that there is a legal unit. At the moment there is no appeal against the judgments of the Criminal and Youth Protection Council and no appeal in cassation. It seemed to the government desirable that this possibility should be created. Cassasion in the interest of the law is, of course, an excellent opportunity to answer questions of law and to promote the unit of law without having any concrete influence on the judgment in a specific case. In my opinion, the legal form can be improved. Let me give you an example. Mr Schouw asked for this too. There is a case known, without going into it in particular, where the criminal at the highest of the facts, the court, considered that the retaliation should be paramount and that a convicted person could only be dealt with in a TBs establishment after two thirds of his time. That was at the time when the breeding scheme was still valid. The RSJ was in a decision on when a convicted person should consider that this could be done after a third of the time. Therefore, the RSJ gave priority to the breeding scheme in force at that time, whereas the court at the highest of the facts had indicated in the penalty motivation of its judgment that the retaliation component had to be strongly reflected. In this concrete case, in which you have to decide whether someone can be treated in a TBs institution, once the criminal case is concluded, the Council for Criminal and Youth Protection is currently the highest and only speaking judge. The criminal case doesn't exist anymore. However, the State has to do with a penalty-based justification of a judge at the highest of the facts, which has also been maintained by the Supreme Court. In such cases, I can imagine that these two different judgments for the convicted will not bring any real change, but I would like to have a ruling from the Supreme Court on the way in which that weighting should be carried out. This is an example, but I can also mention other examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u33	Cassatie for the sake of the law is a nice addition, because it is mainly about the interpretation of different legal terms that you can gain unity. Now, however, the Secretary of State comes up with an example that actually sees different judgments of judges in different columns. I can also imagine something about that. However, I would like to return to my first point: does the RSJ have the judgments at all? According to my information, the RSJ usually doesn't have any judgments or judgments of the judge who ever imposed punishment. Isn't it much more in improving the information position of the RSJ if you want the RSJ to be able to continue to make good and well-motivated statements?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u34	Mr Recourt has already asked a question about this. I have already indicated that it is the duty of the State to ensure that the information it considers important is also available. Information must be kept in order. However, there are examples in which that information was available and the judgements were very different. That's an example. I can also give you another example. In the interests of law, of course, it is important to improve the legal unit. I see Mr Recourt going down again to the interrupting microphone, but I would like to continue on the point he has made. The RSJ is not the only judge to rule on principles laws. In some cases, the Court of Appeal has to rule on the principles of law. Mr Recourt also knows that there are concepts in the principles laws that correspond to those used in criminal law or in the BOPZ Act. I think it is important that the concepts in the principles laws are interpreted in the same way by the criminal court as by the RSJ. Thus, also in connection with the explanation, cassation may be of interest in the interest of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u35	Can the Secretary of State undertake that the RSJ, if he is to rule, may have the judgment that the judge has ever delivered? If at least the logistics goes well, we've already made a move.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u36	It does not apply to every decision taken by the Council, but especially when it comes to the question of when a person is going to be dealt with and goes from a prison to a T.B.S. institution, you must have at your disposal the judgment at the highest instance and, if possible, the judgment of the Supreme Court in such a specific case. I think that's important. So I am happy to make that commitment, as long as it does not yet happen. I think the RSJ does.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u37	I also have to think of another example, that I am telling the Secretary of State. It is a person who is a bit controversial and who has to take a probationary leave from the RSJ, against the wishes of this Secretary of State. Does it also fit in that type of case to go higher and apply for cassation? Or is that a strange example?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u38	No, that's not a strange example. At least I would not call it that, because who am I to say that the honourable Member, Mr Schouw, comes up with a strange example? However, it is not the example I see on it. That is the example of which I have already mentioned in my very first introduction. I fully realise that in an adult democracy with an adult rule of law, the interests of executive and judicial power are not always the same. At least, the interests are the same, but the positions are not always the same, so you can have a difference of opinion. That's something else. I have a different point of view, which must be discussed in the Council's proceedings. We are talking here about the interpretation of concepts. We are talking here about judgments of a criminal court or a court of law on the one hand and decisions of the Council on the other. How should they be interpreted? That's what it has to look at, not a party position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u39	The example was therefore about Volkert van der G. So the Minister says that he would not have used that instrument if it had been in the law at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u40	That is, of course, very difficult to say. Then we'll talk about a concrete case. However, that is not the example I am thinking of in this context. Mr Recourt asked for statements. Can the RSJ do that now? The RSJ couldn't do that, but that's what we discussed. One of Mr Schouw's questions was whether this is being discussed regularly. Soon the RSJ will also be able to directly request judicial information. If the Council takes a decision in a case of a convicted person, it can also request the judicial information. That decision has already been made in the Official Journal. In this way, information is even guaranteed. If the judgment were not delivered, it could also be claimed itself. Let me give you a few more examples. In the case of cassation in the interest of the law, for example, the question could be whether a BOPZ resident in a TBS institution, the BOPZ regime or the TBS regime is applicable. In the past, it has occurred that the civil courts and the board have held different judgments on this matter. This creates problems in practice. Quite specifically, this means that institutions will not know according to which regime someone should be treated. This in turn creates legal inequality, since the BOPZ is treated in accordance with a ruling of the Board in accordance with the BOPZ regime, while the BOPZ is treated in accordance with a judgment of the civil court in accordance with the TBS regime in the other case. That doesn't seem right. This is an example of a civil judge's ruling and a Council ruling. You could imagine that you're going to present these kinds of cases, cases of placement in a concrete regime where one judge says that the regime should be A and the other judge says that the regime should be B, from the point of view of unit of law. As Mr Recourt and others rightly say, it is ultimately up to the Attorney General of the Supreme Court to say 'well, Secretary of State, that is not a matter I am immediately thinking about' or 'here I see an interest in doing so'. It is ultimately his authority to do so. This kind of situation, however, presents problems in practice, in concrete terms. It's not a story you say: it's nice that this is taken care of, but what does it solve in practice? There are indeed situations in the past that you could have solved with this. Now that is impossible, simply because the necessary remedies do not exist. I'm here to talk to you about the victim. Mr. Oskam asked how contact with the victim went after the criminal case. These are questions that see more at the Detention Gradient Information Point (IDV). At the end of a criminal case, the IDV approaches the victim or the next of kin. This will initially be done in writing. The victim or next of kin will also be asked whether or not he wants to have contact by telephone. Mr. Oskam said the same thing. In my opinion, that's better now. As Mr Oskam rightly said, there has been a lot of criticism in the past. There have been quite a few poignant examples, of cases where no calls were made or where someone was confronted with the fact that, for example, a ban on contact or a ban on territory had been lifted. Recently, in Nieuwersluis, where the directors of the penitentiary establishments meet periodically, the Director of the Detention Department was in the meeting to explain that the IDV should also receive timely information from the penitentiary facilities, for example on the change of the regime of a convicted or treated person. This also means that there is more interaction between the IDV on the one hand and the Judicial Institutions on the other. I have already answered Mr Van Nispen's question. He asked whether the victim's interests were an explicitation or an extension. I have said that it is more of an explicit one, but it is also important that transparency should be explicitly expressed. So it's not a shift of interest. It's real Mr Recourt asked whether more tailor-made work should be done on the issue of victim interests. I do not think it is so, but that is sometimes the misconception that taking into account the interests of the victim necessarily leads to the no longer granting of freedoms to prisoners. It is a question of whether a certain freedom is sometimes not granted or not granted at a certain point in time. That's important. It may be that the convicted person is expected to visit the victim in spite of an area ban. If information from the penitentiary would show that someone is working on it inside the pi, I agree with Mr Recourt that this should be brought to the attention of the RSJ if it is to take a decision. In such a situation, the RSJ must state that it is not just about a prisoner who is subject to an area ban or a restraining order, but about a prisoner who is seeking regular contact with the victim or the next of kin from the establishment. Then it seems clear, also from the point of view of transparency, that the decision shows that such a circumstance has actually been weighed. It is really a matter for the cabinet in this law that the director of the penitentiary institution, the complaint committee and the professional committee really take into account the interests of victims, relatives and society as a whole. If these interests are weighted, the executive must also take effective measures which will lead to effects for the benefit of the victim or the next of kin. I have already discussed the exchange of information with the IDV. Mr Oskam spoke of a cold letter. Since November last year, the call is first made. According to my information, victims are appreciated for being contacted. Mr. Oskam asked that. Fate organization Attention Doet Speaking had asked attention to that. No cold letter is sent without prior contact. Mr Oskam asked for two concrete pilots, one for the prison system and one for the probation. Both pilots run until the end of March. That's it pretty soon. Then we'll evaluate. Evaluation will be completed at the beginning of the summer. I would like to meet with the Chamber to send that evaluation to the Chamber before the beginning of the recess. Victim support The Netherlands plays a central role in both pilots. Via the IDV, Victim Aid Netherlands is asked to discuss with the victims what the needs and wishes are. So that's what we'll do. Mr Schouw asked me about victims' grounds in the law. It doesn't solve a problem, because there's no problem. It will be made transparent. If there were a problem, that would be the awareness of victims and relatives that their interests have moved along. Transparency is important for victims and relatives. I have already gone into detail on the balance of interests. Questions have been asked about the organisation of the RSJ. Mrs Van der Burg and Mr Van Nispen spoke about this in detail. There's been some confusion about it. Mr Van Nispen also explicitly asked for this in his first term. The RSJ itself makes a recommendation for all members of the RSJ, whether they are appointed to the Department of Justice or to the Division of Advice, after which an appointment is made by Royal Decree. The RSJ also makes a recommendation to the President of the case-law section. The government then appoints by Royal Decree. The same is true of Article 27 of the bill. The Minister shall take a decision on the appointment of the Chairman of the General Council, who shall also be the chairman of the Advisory Section, after hearing the RSJ. That is the procedure at the moment. The President is not appointed by a recommendation procedure, but the Cabinet decides on this after hearing the Council for Criminal and Youth Protection. The procedure followed in the case of the President-in-Office of the Council was the same. So what Mrs Van der Burg asked for is already settled. The legislative proposal thus also distinguishes between the general tasks of the board, the advisory section and the case-law section. Why else have we done this to the chairman of the entire council? The board is therefore not concerned with the work of the case-law section. That is what the president of the case-law section is about. The Chairman of the General Council shall be the Chairman of the Advisory Section.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u41	Mr Schouw has a question about this, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u42	I have more of an acquaintance question. Is there just advertising for those members in every position, just like at the Council of State? The House of Representatives fought to prevent a system of co-optation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u43	Yeah, they're advertising. The last President has also been advertised in broad terms. Co-optation is also taking place. Mr Schouw undoubtedly has knowledge of this. That is, of course, also happening with this council. People in the field know each other and know each other's expertise. That's how people are approached. But there's also definitely advertising. This has also happened in the past period for the members, especially in order to obtain a broad composition from several sections of society, both in the advisory section and in the case-law section.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u44	I actually want the commitment that the Secretary of State guarantees that there is always a public procedure for all Members, because that is a bit of the line in modern government. We demand that of supervisory councils, we demand that of the members of the Council of State and it seems to me only reasonable to do so for the members of this council.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u45	I shall come back to that in the second term. Mrs Van der Burg asked if it was true that board members of the RSJ could also be chairman of a section. It is true that board members can also be chairman of the current sections prison, youth and tbs. That is a conscious fact, because those sections are so represented in the general board of the board. However, that board is not about the decision in a specific case of an appeal committee. If there's a case coming to an appeal board, the board isn't about that. The board has no powers in that either, so that's not a mix-up either. I told you, the chairman of the RSJ is part of the board and therefore carries out the management tasks with other board members. The president also represents the RSJ externally, for example in consultation with the minister. That's what Mrs. Helder asked. In this case, it is the Secretary of State, because this portfolio has been invested with the Secretary of State. I've already spoken about the appointment. Mr Schouw asked another question, but I think I have answered it. There is no question whatsoever of my intention to paralyze or hinder the functioning of the council with the organizational design. Not at all. I want that out here. I do realize that, as Secretary of State or Minister, you can have different views than a court of law and that such a court of law then makes a stand-alone decision. It is therefore not the case that the cabinet, along the way of the organizational structure or the means of cassation in the interest of the law, is trying to reduce the Council for Criminal and Youth Protection. I've heard angry tongues say about this bill. Of course, that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u46	I have a question about the appointment, because I think the Secretary of State is done with that issue. Perhaps I missed it or the Secretary of State missed it, but what is the answer to my question as to why the current appointment of the President of the Department of Justice should be changed? Now the RSJ appoints the chairman himself. The bill establishes a procedure for this. I get that, because we're getting a justice department in place right now. But why can't the RSJ do that on their own?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u47	Members' appointments are already being made by the Minister. The RSJ doesn't do that himself. The RSJ makes a recommendation, just like the minister who receives for other judicial lectures. The Minister follows them, unless there are very urgent reasons not to. In that sense, it is perfectly clear. When you appoint a chairman of a court-martial college, you give the possibility to follow a recommendation "unless" and there is no free choice. That's different. It's a good thing to say that, rather than the chairman of the entire board, who is also chairman of the advisory section. There's a reason why the word "heard" stands there. This means that there is the possibility for the Minister to deviate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u48	Then it is good that we make that clear here, because I noticed that in the law itself. The answers to the questions in the written preparation are different. Then all I have to ask is why we are dealing here with 'hearing the council' and the case-law section is subject to the recommendation. Can the Secretary of State explain that difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u49	Sure. We believe that the justice department should be independent of the executive. This goes according to the same procedure as the appointment of judges, in fact in exactly the same way. The chairman of the entire board has really different tasks. He's got organizational tasks. Certainly the advisory department has other tasks. The consultative section gives unsolicited and requested advice. Sometimes I ask the RSJ for advice and sometimes I get advice from the RSJ. Sometimes I'm very happy about that and sometimes I'm a little less happy about it. I sometimes ask for advice that I am happy with and I sometimes ask for advice that I am not happy with. But none of that matters. If you appoint the chairman of the total council, you will of course listen to what lives in the RSJ itself. Who do people think of themselves? Who would be considered a good candidate? On the other hand, you will also see what you are advised to do. Sometimes there's a difference. Sometimes the RSJ finds a and points the official advice to b. Then it may even happen that you appoint c. But sometimes both the RSJ and the official advice and the minister all point to a. That has happened in the past, so there are those examples. Sometimes that's how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u50	Now that the Secretary of State has reached the end of the block on appointments, I still have a question about the position of the other four members of the board, not the chairman. They're head of a section. They are a consultative and judicial member, but does that mean that they do nothing in that section, so in that area? I would remind you once again of the conflict of interest that we do not want. Do they speak only or do they advise only in the areas in which they are not the President?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u51	That is already being taken into account. So that's happening pretty little now. In this law, we make sure that it doesn't happen at all in the future. The legislative proposal provides for the total division for the extraordinary members. Soon the case-law department will not advise the cabinet on the same subject. That seems very inconsistent. The advice and the way in which they are prepared for this is, of course, quality in those sections and in the Chairmen of those sections. We have the necessary know-how on the subjects, whether on tbs or on youth protection. From the background and from the advice and the way in which one prepares oneself, one has the necessary know-how. We have also exchanged this in the written documents, and Mr Recourt pointed that out. There is concern at the RSJ, and we have also shared it in the written documents, which, for example, Mrs Van der Burg's amendment and Mr Van Nispen's amendment to carry out such a strict separation will cause a loss of quality. Mr Recourt said: it is a very basic position. In fact, the spokesmen understand the basic position. I wanted to point out that quality must also be maintained if you are to do it absolutely. Of course, the concern is with the RSJ. I shall return to that point when we discuss the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u52	I have another question on this, which was also in my input. Why was it chosen to arrange this separation also for the directors in the RSJ's own regulations and not in the law? Why was that choice made? Can the Secretary of State explain that to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u53	The bill made the choice to regulate it in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u54	Also for the substantive part? The written reply stated that it was covered by the Rules of Procedure. Well, that doesn't conform.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u55	The procedure for appointing the President of the Judicial Division is now governed by the law, in Article 27. I assume that's what the question is about. If you go through that divorce, this means, as I have already said, that you are not taking part in the deliberations on a professional committee. That must be absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u56	Thank you. The same applies to the members of the board; in this respect. This is part of the legal history, so it's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u57	Yes. I would come back to a question from Mr Schouw in the second term, but I can answer it now. The vacancies are already being made public. That is also stated in Article 5 (4) of the bill. All vacancies are therefore made public.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u58	Then the question is, where? Let me explain. It can also be a notification on the website of the Staatsmaak, which reads almost no one at all and which is of no use to you. When we attach importance to public access, there is a decent advertisement in a national newspaper. Can the Secretary of State answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u59	I know that it has happened to the President in the past period; I know that. I'll have a look at where the vacancies are being announced. I shall come back to that in the second term. At the moment, there is no official department of justice. This is being formalized, as I say in reply to Mr Van Nispen's question. The appointment takes place in the same way as at the Council of State, i.e. at KB. Mr Schouw made a comment on the different advice. He asked at what points the RSJ advised aberrantly. The RSJ had no objection to the inclusion of the victim's interest and of cassation in the interest of the law. He did have some comments about the split. They were about the term of appointment of two times six and three times four. We have met the RSJ with regard to the term of appointment of the members in the incompatibilitys. Mr Schouw specifically asked me about those two times six and three times four. If you go to the new situation, it is also good if you work towards it that over time there are possibilities for new blood to enter the RSJ and for people from various sections of society to be absorbed into it. In this sense, three times four appointments must be seen. Mr Schouw wondered what problem would be solved by reducing the number of Members to fifteen. The Samecase problem, which has already been discussed in the first period, is greatly reduced. So far, all 60 members of the RSJ and the alternate members have been able to perform both tasks. This allowed this problem to arise. If the bill is followed, only 15 members can carry out these tasks. The extraordinary members can therefore no longer be appointed to both sections. Mrs van der Burg briefly focused on the situation in which a person judges the same case as he did earlier in advising on legislation. It can therefore no longer occur in the case of extraordinary Members. The law rules that out. If the House follows the amendment, it will be totally excluded; that is the consequence of that. The budgetary implications of the legislative proposal are limited, because it does not create new tasks. That was also a question from Mr Schouw. The transitional law also provides for a smooth transition, which will avoid major reorganisations immediately after entry into force. The amendment of the VVD and the SP does not change that. Even if that amendment were to be adopted, there would be a smooth transition and not a cold transition which would change the situation from one moment to the next. The amendment in question completely excludes double membership. There may be a smooth transition period, but ultimately it will lead to complete separation. This is also fully in line with the proposal on the Council of State, on which an opinion is now being requested. At the moment, then, you would go further with the Criminal and Youth Protection Council than is currently the case with the Council of State. Mr Schouw said in his speech that if that amendment were to be adopted, you would be sending a signal as a Chamber. Of course, the Council of State is not the same body as the Council of Criminal Law and Youth Protection, but certainly when it comes to dual functions there is an overflow. Despite the fact that I understand the arguments put forward by the Council for the application of criminal law and for the protection of young people, I decided to leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. Having listened carefully to the first term, there is a great deal of feeling in the Chamber that this would certainly be a correct position on the basis of the principles. It is also in line with the legislative proposal on the Council of State, which is going into procedure, but it is getting ahead of it. Despite the fact that I realise that it could cause problems for the existing organisation of the Criminal and Youth Protection Council, I believe that the smooth transition can minimise these problems. So I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u60	It seems a bit political, but in the note on the report, the Secretary of State made a very clear choice; he says: the number must be reduced but we still need fifteen. That's why I don't understand this judgment. Maybe he can explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u61	I'd like to explain. I have listened carefully to the Chamber in the first term. I hear you all saying that you attach great importance to this separation of principle and that you should not limit it to the extraordinary members but that you should also apply it to the 15 permanent members. We have a draft law which introduces that separation in relation to the Council of State. Because of the smooth transition based on the transitional right, I think it is possible to carry out this business as well. That insight also comes from the cabinet. And that is certainly also a political judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u62	Let me make a point of order: I did not say that I agree. So I am not in favour of Mrs Van der Burg's amendment and Mr Van Nispen's amendment either, but I am not in favour of a final divorce either. I think it's okay to bring it back to fifteen, and I think the RSJ should be able to do that on its own. That's what I want to say here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u63	The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u64	Mr President, I am ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u65	This brings an end to the government's first term of office. I note that there is a need for a second deadline. First of all, Mr Oskam has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u66	Mr. Chairman. I can be very brief, because the Secretary of State is known to give very clear answers. It is good to hear that the victims are now more personally and directly informed through the new IDV system. I think this does justice to their situation, but we will, of course, continue to follow this. I also asked a question about the pilots within the prison system and the probation. The Secretary of State replied that these pilots will end at the end of March and that their evaluation will probably go to the Chamber before the summer recess. That's fine. However, I am curious about the state of play. Since we've been working on this for a while now, I'd like to give you a tip of the veil about the first impression of those pilots and whether things have noticed and have been sent in. I have not received an answer, perhaps because it does not see directly on the bill, but it is important in the whole spectrum to ask how the Secretary of State will assess it and how he will improve that the police reports will be reported to the Victim Aid Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u67	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions that my group still had about the legislative proposal. We are satisfied with that response and the clarity about the position of the RSJ's board. That was another focus for us. Thank you for the opinion on the amendment. Besides, I can leave it alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u68	Mr. Chairman. First of all, there is the question of explicating and incorporating the interests of victims and of security in society as a basis for scrutiny. The Secretary of State has made it very clear that it is and-and. It is an explicitation of something that is already happening, but it is also an extension because of the development in society. In that sense, the Secretary of State mentioned it and-and. The aim is not to shift the substance of the matter. Can I understand it so that it is an extension to what is now in the law, after all, it is a legislative amendment rather than an extension to correct what is now happening? That is my question at this point. Mrs van der Burg's amendment, to which I have subscribed, does indeed completely exclude double members for the future. The Secretary of State says that it is indeed in line with the cabinet's proposal on this point. The letter on this matter was sent to the Chamber a few months ago. There is a draft proposal in which this will be included. The amendment is therefore ahead of schedule. However, I do not see why that would be bad. It's a cabinet proposal. Cabinet proposals often involve two major parties, with which there is already a majority ahead. I am also very fond of the idea. I think there's more. So I do not think that this is a problem. I am pleased that the Secretary of State wishes to leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber. It is indeed a principled position: to advise or to judge. I too believe that respect for transitional law can prevent problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u69	Mrs Helder renounces the word in second term. I call Mr Recourt of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u70	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the explanation. As I said in the first term, my group supports the legislative proposal. All three elements can be well defended as an improvement. They're improvements, too. I've got a few little dots left. I would like to make it quite clear that it is the Attorney General who decides whether a case is to be brought in the interests of the law. The suggestion of the Secretary of State who does not agree with the decision on Volkert van der G., so I found that a very important point for my group is not on the agenda. It's the Attorney General who decides, and that means it's out of politics. This also makes it a good proposal because of the legal unit it achieves. As regards the provision of information to the RSJ, I have understood the Secretary of State in such a way that the judgment or judgment of the court, court or Supreme Court comes to the RSJ at the time it is necessary and can then take it into account. He then said, however, that the documentation will soon be visible. That's good, but it's not the same thing. If you want the RSJ to take into account the judgment of the judge in appeal, in cassation or whatever, the judgment must really be there. Otherwise, all you can see is exactly what was decided, but not what the underlying reasons were. I think it is excellent that new members of the RSJ should be openly advertised. I think it would be a good idea if Members then looked at who will be the President and did not need to be advertised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u71	Perhaps it is my incomprehension, but isn't it very important that the RSJ, which is an independent institution that should also have an independent approach, regulates its own information, that access position? I was surprised this wasn't settled yet. In fact, this is much more important than the information being provided. It is only when you are independent that it is important to have the opportunity to collect information yourself. Does Mr Recourt agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u72	It is certainly important that the RSJ, if one has a file that does not contain anything, can ask for something to be added. That is entirely the case if you express the importance of the victims and society has a major role to play. The RSJ must then indicate that it is not able to assess and request more documents. For two reasons, it is useful to do this in advance. The first reason is that you don't know what to ask if you don't know it's there. So in order to ask for something, you have to realize something's wrong. A judgment in which it is stated that, for example, after two thirds of the term of the sentence, resocialisation can still be started is not a standard case. The RSJ really doesn't know this is in the arrest. Then the RSJ can never ask. The second reason is an efficiency argument. If the RSJ has to ask for it every time and therefore things have to be kept, it will only take longer and cost more. In that sense, it is also very sensible that the government should simply do so itself, at least in those cases where it itself is the bearer of information, and that, in cases where it is not, it should inform or and perhaps stimulate that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u73	Thank you for that answer. It is in line with the feeling that my group has on this, namely that both are important, but that it is certainly also extremely important to have access to information of its own in order to fulfil that independent position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u74	I have two further points on the amendment. I will advise my group to vote in favour of the amendment. However, I still have to make a formal assessment of this. The principle goes first, because I do not feel that there are major accidents in terms of quality. In fact, I think we're gonna be okay. I do have a practical point to make. I know that if you really make that very strict divorce, the argument is also put forward to the Council of State that it will be more difficult to get good people. This applies both to advice and to justice. Does the Secretary of State share that concern? I am not so afraid of it, because I believe that both justice and advice, apart from each other, are wonderful and important functions to continue to do. However, I would like to ask the question. I'm done with my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u75	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I think almost all the questions have been answered neatly. I would just like to go through a few points when it comes to the explication and the considerations that the council makes when it comes to victims. Do I understand correctly from the Secretary of State that it is actually a question of codifying the standing practice? My second comment concerns the budget: it remains virtually the same. I come to my third comment. We just talked about the ad. The Secretary of State himself also said it's important to get new blood in here. I therefore hope that the Secretary of State will promote public advertisements so that everyone can express their interest in them. My group is all in favour of the legislative proposal and I will also give it a positive opinion on the amendment relating to the division. Certainly the words of the Secretary of State on transitional law make the amendment comply with the basic choices that we want to make for a number of bodies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u76	This brings to an end the second term of the Chamber. The Secretary of State may respond immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u77	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their second term contribution. I shall begin with Mr Schouw's comment on the explication. Mr Van Nispen also asked me about it. It is a little more than codifying the existing practice. Codifying the existing practice would be: we're doing great and we're just writing down that we're doing great. In my first term, I made it very clear that the balance between the interests of victims and survivors on the one hand and those of convicted persons and suspects on the other should be made clearly visible. That does not mean a shift, as Mr Van Nispen said. I can specifically answer that question with no. But I do not answer Mr Schouw's question as to whether it is just a codification. Making it transparent, making it visible is a little more than just going on as we are doing now. I would like to emphasise that also in terms of legislation. This balance of interests must be made visible, even if the situation between a convicted prisoner and victims and relatives has changed. However, attention must be paid to this. So that is something else. All the comments were also important, but I think it is important to clarify this immediately. The people who listen in must also know what the purpose of this law is. I come to the state of affairs around pilots. The period has been extended. I am thinking of the Justice Department, the monitoring of the interests of victims and the provision of information to other lectures, such as the RSJ. It took more time to map work processes, to make working arrangements. Victim support and prison services weren't always natural partners. Mr Oskam knows this from his years of experience. I mentioned for a reason the meeting in Nieuwersluis, where attempts have been made to bring directors of penitentiary establishments directly into contact with the Detention Development Information Point, but also with Victim Help, which is regularly discussed. The parties must get to know each other well. There has been experience, but it was still a little too short, hence the extension. This summer we come with the evaluations. I'm better, but I can do much better. I would have liked to have discussed this with the Permanent Committee on Security and Justice in the consultation on victims, but I regret that something has been pushed through. Mr Oskam asked about the exchange of information between police and Victim Support and said that this could be done better. The police realise that the exchange of information with Victim Support can not only be improved, but also needs to be improved quickly. That's what the police department called attention to. Work is under way, in particular on ICT facilities, which need to improve the automated transmission of information from a declaration and from the victim's statement to the prosecution and further in the chain and to Victim Support. In the meantime, good consultation with Victim Support is taking place. Real progress is being made by region and unit. It has a clear focus; we will come back to it in general on Victim Support. Perhaps then I can say a little more about the state of play. I see one of my employees nodding, so it's possible at that time. I would like to thank Mrs van der Burg for her comments. I am curious about what happens to the amendment. I have already replied to Mr Van Nispen. Whether or not it is a problem to anticipate the bill on the Council of State, let me assess the Chamber. I thought I had been clear, but I would like to confirm to Mr Recourt once again that the Attorney General is bringing a case in the interests of the law. The State can, of course, ask the executive for attention on a particular subject. It's always possible. In the end, however, the Attorney General is about it, no one else. Mr Recourt rightly referred to judgments and judgments and their views. At the time the RSJ requests data from the judicial information service, he also has the parquet and arrest numbers and can actually request them. However, the director of a DJI can also forward those songs. Sometimes it's at your disposal. Of course, this is not necessary in every professional case, because not every professional case is on this subject, but it seems very important to me that a criminal court's opinion on enforcement should be on the file of pending cases when the Council has to take a decision. If that is the case, the judgment of the judge at the highest instance or the judgment of the court at any instance in the future will be delivered by default, as far as I am concerned. Mr Schouw addressed the vacancies. Vacancies are published on the RSJ's own site, but not everyone reads them, he said. The vacancies, however, also appear widely in large newspapers. More specific functions at the Board are also available on the Court of Justice's website, so that several people can take note of them. However, I will urge the President of the Criminal and Youth Protection Council to make the vacancies available in the broadest possible way, so that many people from different parts of society can apply for these positions. That is immediately the answer to Mr Recourt's question whether I foreseen that the RSJ could get the good people on all these functions. I believe that there is a need for a broad search and that RSJ should also benefit from being composed by people from the entire breadth of society. Of course, they are often lawyers, but it doesn't always have to be that way. Other professional disciplines are also represented - sometimes mandatory - on the Board. You can look for them in the breadth of society. That's what those ads contribute to. It is not always necessary to search in a limited circle, but sometimes in full width. In addition, there are also very qualified people among police officers who are interested in the RSJ. They can very well participate in that council. It will be equally problematic, but if you look wide, you will also find well-suited people. In my view, that should be the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-3.u78	The vote on the amendments tabled and the legislative proposal will take place next Tuesday.
