ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u1	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with a quote. "If you see in Gouda what it does in that community, that a mosque of this size is being built there with so much doubt indeed about the funding then I find it naive, too, to use that word again, if we would ignore that." These are not my words, but the words of the Prime Minister in the election debate at RTL on 5 March last, about the construction of a mosque in Gouda. However, in this case, the cabinet woke up far too late. Of course, this is a local matter and it is mostly Gouda. At the same time, the role of the cabinet cannot be avoided. The case illustrates the lack of insight of the cabinet into the financing from non-free countries and the possible influence from Salafist movements. Take the fact that one of Europe's most important radical fundraisers, Tarik Ibn Ali, could be prominently present at a fundraiser for the mosque in question. We want to keep these people out of the Netherlands, don't we? I understand he wasn't welcome in Rijswijk. Every time we see incidents, the cabinet reacts on a case-by-case basis, ad hoc. Does the cabinet still insist that it does everything in the fight against radicalisation and terrorism? Locally, every mayor has to reinvent the wheel when banning events. I mention Almere, Eindhoven and Rijswijk. Another example is the withdrawal of passports by the mayor of Hengelo. The conclusion is that the cabinet is behind the facts, the policy for municipalities is not clear enough or offers too few instruments. That is what the mayor of Hengelo also said and there is a catch-up to be made. Take the roofing on the intelligence services. Cutbacks have taken their toll. The Court of Auditors recently touched the cabinet on the unwise and hasty cuts in the AIVD. Back to funding. There's a lot to worry about. They were recently confirmed during a hearing in the Lower House. The House of Representatives, and the CDA group at the top, want to get a better grip on this point. That means we need a public list of hate images. It was previously proposed by the CDA, but also by Mrs Tellegen of the VVD. I am only sticking to the topicality: this afternoon we adopted a motion in the vote calling for work to be carried out with other ministers at European level, at the JHA Council. It is important that visas can be withdrawn and that hate images can be prevented. RAND has commissioned the cabinet to investigate the foreign financing of Islamic institutions. However, RAND only received an annual report from one Islamic institution. Is the Minister talking to the contact body of Muslims and Government about this? I am also saying this in the light of a CDA motion adopted in 2011, which states that charities registered on the Internet as an anbi should publish their annual financial report. We've had to do that since 2014. Several thousand charities have already lost their anbi status because they do not do so. Mosques and churches have been given the time to comply with that obligation until 1 January 2016. The study requested by Mr Segers shows that they are not on schedule. There's not enough going on right now. What's the Minister gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u2	Before I give the floor to Mr De Graaf and Mr Kuzu: a maximum of two interruptions are allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u3	Do you mean interruptions in two, or two in total for the whole debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u4	I mean that in the first period two interruptions are allowed, with a question and a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u5	Thank you. So I can make a total of two. Mr Oskam spoke on behalf of the CDA about the fact that funding is annoying, and about hate images. In written questions the CDA made a lot of mention of the bunkers under the old barracks where the megamoskee should now be. Is only that combination of factors a problem for the CDA, or does the objection actually apply to all mosques?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u6	We have nothing against mosques. We are also the party of faith. We also believe that Islamic people can have their own prayer buildings. That's not what we're talking about. What matters to us is that in this case it was a large building, which costs a lot of money, in the millions. That money doesn't just come from anywhere. We want to know whether this is from non-free countries, because if it is, these influences will also come with it. In Gouda it is well known that many young Islamic people have left for Syria. These are all elements that do affect us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u7	I'm allowed to see some progress at the CDA. In any case, the CDA sees a number of elements within Islam that are problematic. Salute for Mr Oskam and for the CDA. However, I note that Mr Oskam does not find other mosques a problem. In doing so, he remains jointly responsible for the further Islamisation of the Netherlands. Does he share that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u8	Mr De Graaf is trying to frame me. I didn't say that first one. I just said we're afraid of salafistic influences. If there are money flows, that needs to be clarified. I also mentioned the anbi-story. We're against hate images. People who preach hate and violence, we don't want to be here. We can find each other in that, but it's not like we're against mosques and we're not against Islam either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u9	You blame Mr De Graaf for trying to frame you, but I have listened to your speech and there are a few frames in it. I only have one question and a follow-up question, so I'll limit myself. PwC has carried out an investigation into the financing of this mosque, which shows that 0.05% of funding comes from abroad, including two EU countries. Don't you think that's how you're gonna make a suspicion and criminalize an entire community of faith?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u10	I do not believe Mr Kuzu on his brown eyes, but I do not have the PwC report. This has been kept confidential for inspection by the city council members in Gouda. We asked where it came from, but I do not have the answer, so I cannot answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u11	It is now public information, which I have picked from the Internet, that 0.05% of funding comes from abroad. If Mr Oskam constantly tries to cast the frame that the money comes from unfree countries, then I can tell him that this is not true at all. Does that change his position on the mosque's arrival? What does he think of his own role in this? The city council and the college of Gouda have said that everything is fine. The ball has started to roll by Mr Oskam, after his written questions. Doesn't he think he has a responsibility in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u12	You're making some jumps in time. When we were told that there was unrest in Gouda, we asked questions about it. It's only after that that the PwC investigation came. It is a good thing that this has happened, because we also want to know whether there is unfree money. If there's no question of unfree money, you won't hear me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u13	Mr Kuzu, we have agreed that there are two interruptions. Then you will now use your second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u14	No, I'm saving it for someone else, but I note that I didn't get an answer to my question. It would be a credit to Mr Oskam if he replied.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u15	I answered the question. I said: if there is no non-free money, then we have no problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u16	I have two points for Mr Oskam. Mr Oskam speaks very specifically about the mosque in Gouda. If there is a case that has been studied very well and is transparent, then it is Gouda. How then is it that Mr Oskam does not appreciate and trust all these investigations and the transparency offered by the College? What does Mr Oskam mean by 'unfree countries'?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u17	To answer the first question: it is a local matter. Gouda must do what one thinks should be done. When it comes to a state building, this cabinet is also responsible for finding out where that money came from. We've always asked where that money came from. In the meantime, an answer has been given, at least confidentially in the city council of Gouda. I don't have that answer. We have asked the Minister himself to investigate this matter. Maybe that's what happened, maybe that didn't happen, but we got the answer that he doesn't. Then it's gonna end a little bit. If the conclusion in Gouda is that we are talking about decent money, then we are not going to be difficult about it, but we did feel that we should put this item on the agenda. I don't regret that. I have lost Mr Marcouch's second question. Maybe he wants to ask it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u18	That doesn't count as second interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u19	No, this doesn't count as your second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u20	Mr Oskam spoke about money from non-free countries. I was wondering which countries they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u21	I don't have a map that would allow me to point out salafistic countries. We want to know where the money comes from. If money for the construction of a prayer house flows to Gouda, Helmond or any other church, and that money comes from people who say that you can stone women because they are inferior, then we have difficulty with it. That's what we mean by these salafistic influences.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u22	I have to conclude that, despite the knowledge we have, Mr Oskam, we have spoken with someone from the AIVD in a hearing, and it emerged that there is nothing wrong with that money keeping the atmosphere in the air that there is something wrong with the money for the mosque in Gouda. That is a bad thing, because it undermines social peace in that community, even though he knows better. One final question to colleague Oskam. Does he also think that the Netherlands should not export money to those non-free countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u23	Mr Marcouch is trying to frame me. I didn't mention the conclusion he made. It's not. Then there is the second point. I think this is from a very different order. If people here want to build a building of faith, they can. That is freedom of religion. However, we do not want influences from imams who tell boys to go to Syria to fight. We do not want that; we are all trying to stop it. We do not want imams here who say that women can be stoned because they are inferior people. We don't want that. I think I'm clear on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u24	This is an interesting point. I agree with Mr Oskam that foreign funding, certainly from Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States, which we know is fed jihadism there, is undesirable. However, Mr Marcouch's question is quite right, because at the same time we support the coalition in which such countries are our allies. We cannot rule out the possibility of money or other items going from the Netherlands to those countries. This money may also come into the hands of jihadists or other idiotic figures such as Islamists, IS supporters and so on. Mr Oskam must be against that too, must he not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u25	I'm missing that insight. I don't know where those money goes. That's not my wallet. I'm talking about this subject here. We can bring in all kinds of things, but I just don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u26	Okay, I respect that. That's an honest answer. However, I would like to make the point that we must avoid double standards. That is a bit of the feeling that prevails in society: when it comes to Islamic houses of faith, it is our enemies, while in other cases it is our allies. That raises questions. Perhaps Mr Oskam can understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u27	I can understand that. I have clearly said to Mr Marcouch that we have no problem with fair money, which has no salafistic influences. We don't have a problem with mosques. It's fine that there are. There are Muslim people in the Netherlands who want to go to the mosque. We don't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u28	Madam President. The announcement of the arrival of a large mosque in Gouda put a lot of pressure on local relations. The plans for that mosque have been put in the fridge but are slowly but surely taken out again. The tension increases again. The support and care of the process remain vulnerable. That is a simple observation. Tonight there will be a new public consultation and the conversation in Gouda will continue. We must also know our place in this, also in relation to local democracy and the discussion and decision-making that is taking place in Gouda. At the same time, there are concerns regarding Gouda that can be extrapolated and that put a larger case here on the table. This is about possible foreign financing with an ideological agenda behind it. If the cabinet writes that the current financing in Gouda is 0.05% from foreign funds, then it is the money that has now been raised. At the same time, a huge financial commitment has been made by the community, which is putting great pressure on this community. There are stories about possible extortion and about people who would have been very pressured to give a lot of money. The need can be high, and it is not imaginary that we should look at foreign affairs and all kinds of funds. That doesn't have to be problematic in itself, but it can be. We have the example of the Essalam Mosque in Rotterdam, which was financed with foreign funds, provided that the places of the board members were filled out by the person who wrote the check. In other words, the one who pays determines. This led to an internal discussion in the Islamic community around that mosque, where people said: we just want our mosque to be our own again. So there is also an internal debate within the Islamic community. Where is it problematic? Where an ideological agenda of unfreedom, where values are promoted that run counter to the values of our rule of law and our freedoms, it becomes problematic. We have indeed requested an investigation into foreign financing in the general sense. RAND Europe has achieved that. We're going to talk about it even more specifically in an AO, but that investigation was unsatisfactory. It was said that it is not proportional to examine all 450 mosques. I have accepted that, and it seems to me that it is a very real point not to carry out extensive further investigations; that is a way of making suspects which is unjustified and not proportionate. But where the AIVD says that salafism and jihadism are becoming more and more intertwined, there is great concern about salafistic influences. Where we are concerned about radicalisation, extremism and jihadism, this is a point that should at least be examined in greater detail. I have also prepared a motion on this point which I hope to table later. As for the Gouda situation in particular, there is the following. The extent to which foreign finance is now financed is very limited, i.e. 0.05%, but the long-term chance of foreign financiers coming along with an unfree and ideological agenda that runs counter to the freedoms of our rule of law is something we are concerned about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u29	Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate about the possible arrival of a Gouda mosque was the fuss around hate preachers who would raise money for this mosque and unclear about where the money for this mosque would come from, together with reports from a municipality that would cooperate in public space on a partition wall that would prevent mosqueers from seeing women. At a time when images of Islamists scare us all, this may raise more questions and perhaps also fear. Not least because more and more people are divisive through political Islam or discriminate against Islamites because of their religion or origin, regardless of their actions. We should not be afraid to talk about this, but work together on solutions to prevent tensions and problems. I share with the cabinet that the arrival of prayer houses is a local matter to be judged in good consultation with believers, neighborhoods and congregations. But like a number of other speakers, I have a number of questions that go beyond this specific case. Mr Segers also mentioned foreign financing. In this case, there is hardly any evidence of foreign financing. That's good news. But recently we heard from the AIVD that no research is being carried out into the origin of funds, although we know that funds are coming from, for example, certain Gulf states. How does the Minister feel about this? Does he share the view that there should also be transparency in this regard? The structure and financing of Diyanet, the organization that sends imams here from the Turkish government, are also opaque. They haven't got a grip on that either. I believe that transparency can contribute to greater understanding, good management and self-organisation of Islamists in the Netherlands. How will the Minister achieve or stimulate this? Then there is the recruitment of funds. That controversial idiot, I'd almost like to yell, would raise funds for the Gouda mosque. So how's the fundraiser going? There's hardly any foreign money. It's a big deal. How do mosques do that? Perhaps that insight and professionalization also contribute to clarity and less fuss. In my view, then, there should also be good tools for municipalities, prayer houses and related organisations to keep a close eye on these matters. I was surprised that the government, our government, still Islamists, with a political ideological agenda, facilitated. World Wide Relief in Utrecht, which wanted to invite another hate preacher with the most horrible acts to his conto, is, for example, recognized as an official learning work company. We also know that in the past young people were sent for community service to the at least controversial As Sunnahmoskee. According to the Minister, can we conclude that the government must provide insight into these structures and these organisations and that we should at least not facilitate and subsidise them? Finally, I would like to make it clear that we all have to stand firm for all freedoms and fundamental rights for everyone, whether they be Muslims, non-believers or non-believers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u30	Mr. Chairman. As far as the VVD Group is concerned, the resale of the Prince Willem Alexander complex to the Islamic centre El Wahda is a local issue. Nevertheless, the construction of the new mosque in The Hague has led to a fuss, to many parliamentary questions and even to this thirty-member debate. The VVD Group in Gouda has from the beginning underlined the importance of a good destination for the barracks. For the VVD in Gouda, the importance of the residents, the importance of the district, was paramount. After all, the arrival of a new mosque will have a major impact on the environment in many ways. The Prince Willem Alexanderkazerne must have an appropriate social function, as stated in the coalition agreement. The plan that was there offered too little guarantee for this. In the opinion of the VVD in Gouda, it did not meet that definition. Now it's waiting for a new plan. Can the Minister state what the latest state of affairs is? Is it true that a decision has to be taken on 8 July? As I said, this is a local matter and matters to be decided on in the Gouda Council and not here in the House of Representatives. Like others, I would like to use this debate to raise an issue related to it, namely funding mosques in a broader sense. It seems, according to answers to parliamentary questions from my predecessor Klaas Dijkhoff, that there is little foreign funding in the construction of the mosque in Gouda. However, the Bibob National Bureau still has to deliver an opinion. When will the advice come, I ask the Minister. For the ideas shared in mosques can have a major impact on public order and security in a neighborhood. In most mosques in the Netherlands there is nothing wrong, but unfortunately recent studies, including the AIVD, show that there is an increasing influence of salafism in some mosques in this country. Let Salafism now be a movement within Islam that does not take it so closely with the freedoms we know here in the Netherlands, a movement that can lead to radicalisation and extremism. That influence is intended to prevent the VVD. Action must be taken on this development wherever possible. One way to get a grip on this mosque is by being crystal clear about which preachers in the Netherlands are welcome and not welcome. To this end, this afternoon, the Chamber adopted a motion from the VVD calling on the Cabinet to pursue strict and robust EU policies on hate preachers. Another way to counter salafistic influences is to map out whether money flows are flowing from abroad to these mosques, or buy influence with foreign money in mosque authorities. Two years ago, the Chamber did not ask for any attention for nothing. A motion of the Christian Union, co-signed by the VVD and many other parties in this house, was widely supported and asked the cabinet to map these foreign funding flows. The result is sad. There is a thin report that actually says: it is not possible to map these funding flows. That while the AIVD recently warns in a number of reports about the increasing influence of salafism on Dutch mosque authorities. The VVD therefore wants a new focus on research. For this reason, Mr Segers has just announced that I would like to table a motion with the Christian Union asking for a new investigation. I'm closing up. Freedom of religion is a great asset, and it is precisely for this reason that it is our duty to guard that freedom and not to be restricted by foreign financiers who, through their financial contribution, can make their mark on the ideas that are being disseminated, especially if this leads to sermons that sow hatred, provoke violence and pose a potential risk to our freedom and security.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u31	I would like a little bit of clarity from my colleague, Mr Tellegen, on the flows of money from abroad. Is this about countering an undesirable ideology or does the VVD group have problems with every penny that comes from abroad for a mosque?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u32	The first. That must also be very clear. That's exactly what we're talking about. This has also become very clear in the round table we have all had. We are all concerned here about the specific flow within Islam that is not as high on the rule of law as we know it in the Netherlands. To that particular influence of Salafism, political Islam, on those mosques in the Netherlands that are increasingly influenced by them we want research. That is precisely what we want because the freedom of religion is a great asset, precisely because we do not have to equate all mosques in the Netherlands but because we want to focus specifically on those mosques that are increasingly under the influence of currents that make us not happy in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u33	So I understand that the VVD does not want to see money in our mosques in the Netherlands from countries where that salafism is common? So you're trying to stop these money flows?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u34	Let me start by saying that we can only consider measures on this subject if we first clarify what is going on. What makes me hopelessly frustrated so far is that it cannot be understood. That alone makes the suspicion greater rather than smaller. Hence my wish to ask the cabinet again for that inquiry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u35	Mrs Tellegen speaks a bit against this, because in her reply to Mr Marcouch she states that there is an increasing level of funding and then she says: yes, but we do not really know, there is a need for research. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u36	No, I certainly don't contradict myself. It's two different things. We have some very clear recent reports from the AIVD, the annual report but also a specific study. It is quite clear that the AIVD warns of an increasing influence of salafism on mosque authorities in the Netherlands. That is a worrying development. One of the ways to get an insight into this is to map out these funding flows. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u37	Then I misunderstood. I'll listen to the tape. Mrs Tellegen did indeed talk about increasing funding flows to the Netherlands from countries where salafism prevails. To get it even sharper: RAND Europe has done research on it. The AIVD has reports on it. In my opinion, RAND was also very firmly in the conclusion that it cannot be done. During the round table we were told very clearly that it does not necessarily cause problems here in the Netherlands. I wonder what exactly is the purpose of the VVD, together with the Christian Union in this case. Perhaps there will be more; I also expect Mr De Graaf from the PVV. I can only observe that suspicions are being voiced, while everyone, including during the round table, has indicated that it does not necessarily have to be a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u38	Suspicion? Just not! The mission is to fly it very cleanly. I have just said that, but I will repeat it once more. The RAND Europe report is a frustrating report, because it actually says: we cannot map it, so there is no problem. I would like to draw that conclusion only when it has been mapped out. That's exactly what I'm trying to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u39	Mr. Chairman. Too many Dutch are afraid of Islam. That fear is not based on facts, but on what they are presented daily by the media and a number of parties here. 80% of the Dutch have no contact with Muslims. They do not want that contact at all, according to research by the EO: the Netherlands and Islam. It was already known from one party here that they are filled with hatred of Muslims and that they feed gut feelings for electoral gain. We note and deeply regret that parties on the right of this Chamber have participated fully in making the arrival of a care institution, a school and a mosque in Gouda impossible. I look at the CDA and the Christian Union, unfortunately the SGP is not there and ask them: where has the charity of Christian brotherhood remained when it comes to Muslims? In Gouda, groups of people are confronted by national politics. Is that what we want? Are we going to explain fundamental rights in the Netherlands differently for one group than for the other group? We're not in on it. In our view, all the political parties involved are no better than all the radicals we talk about on a daily basis. The Netherlands has traditionally been an immigration country. There are about 1 million Muslims in 2015. Those Muslims will stay here. Get used to it. Just as Christians are entitled to their churches, Muslims are entitled to their mosques. We cling to our Constitution and will defend fundamental rights, such as freedom of religion, regardless of whether you are Christian, Jewish, Muslim, Buddhist or atheist. If we let go of our Constitution, we will let go of our civilization. That is a road we should not go on. The right of the minority must always be protected in a democratic rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u40	I would like to give Mr Kuzu his own world view and his own sketch of the political situation, but so far I have not heard a single speaker here behind the speaker's seat who wants to take something away from religious freedom, or who is one-sidedly targeting Muslims. What concerns have been expressed is the influence of Salafism. The AIVD says the boundary between salafism and jihadism is fading. Then my question is: what are Mr Kuzu's proposals to do, in view of this concern, to counter the threat of radicalisation towards jihadism?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u41	I note at the same time that many written questions have been asked and that there have been many statements in the media on this subject, not just about salafism. It was about the arrival of a megamoskee in Gouda. I also note that we agree that we are concerned about a number of developments regarding radicalisation. I also think that you should put your own hands into your own bosom and see if your contributions may also lead to increased radicalisation among a particular group in our society. I really note that when the Christian Union or the PVV or the CDA do certain expressions, more and more people in this country think: do we not have a right to our faith, whereas the supporters of the Christian Union do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u42	I would very much like to repeat to Mr Kuzu that I am in favour of religious freedom for all, that I am in favour of equal treatment for all citizens and that everyone's equality before the law is beyond question. When we asked Mr Kuzu's colleague, Mr Öztürk, in a general discussion what he found after he had focused his arrows on the PVV and on the SGP of a caliphate party, of a party dreaming of unequal treatment of citizens, of freedom for women, of the restriction of religious freedom, no condemnation came out of his mouth. He didn't want to confess to color. I'd be happy to put my hand into my own bosom. I am in favour of religious freedom for everyone, but I am concerned about radicalisation and jihadism. If the question is asked the other way around, it remains very quiet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u43	No, Mr. Chairman, it doesn't stay frightfully quiet. I am pleased that, at least during this debate, the Christian Union indicates that freedom of religion applies to everyone. I'm happy about that. As far as I am concerned, this is a gain in this debate. I have also listened very carefully to the debate on anti-democratic groups in general. When the suggestive question to my colleague Öztürk was asked whether we as Think would be prepared to introduce Sharia in the Netherlands, my colleague gave an appropriate answer by handing over a manifesto, which describes exactly what we stand for. I challenge Mr Segers to read that manifesto and to find in it one sentence on the basis of which he can mock us that we would like to introduce what he has just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u44	Mr Segers, you are asking for the floor again. That will be your second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u45	It is my second interruption and I would like to give it to Mr Kuzu. If he says that Mr Öztürk was given a suggestive question, that is untrue. He has extensively broken the staff about the PVV. He has extended his arrows to the SGP. And when a question was asked to him about a party dreaming of the caliphate, no word of condemnation came over his lips. That is why my question is now for Mr Kuzu: when it comes to salafism, a movement which indeed represents unequal treatment for citizens, for the restriction of religious freedom, what is Mr Kuzu's answer? What is his assessment of that ideology?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u46	I can be clip-and-ready about that. I also stated during my speech that I fully support our Constitution and that I will defend our Constitution to the full. I am speaking on a regular basis about Article 1 of our Constitution. In this case, I am talking about Article 6 of our Constitution, which clearly states that we have a number of fundamental rights in this country, and those fundamental rights are equal for everyone, no matter where they come from, no matter what their sex is, no matter what. I would like to ask the Christian Union, in this case Mr Segers and his colleagues, and we also have some other colleagues from the Christian Union who do not always make a clear statement on this question, whether the interpretation of freedom of religion can also be discussed at a group meeting of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u47	Mr Kuzu does not have to worry about the extent to which religious freedom is appreciated within the Christian Union group. In this I can really reassure him. It is about the concerns that have been expressed here, not about "the Muslims," not about "Islam," not about everything and everyone, but about the influence of Salafism. That is extremely real now that the AIVD says that the border between jihadism and salafism is fading. Then I would very much like to stand with Mr Kuzu shoulder to shoulder in front of that salafism and the influence that becomes apparent in certain mosques. I can name the names. I won't do that here, but I could do it. There are financial flows from Gulf states here, and I am very concerned about that, and the AIVD is sometimes very concerned about that, and we could be partners in that, Mr Kuzu. I miss that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u48	I see this as a hand-off and reach out to the Christian Union, but I would also like to ask for something for that. I see that this theme is constantly being enlarged so that I think we are living in two different realities. In every current there are excesses. This is the case in every religion and in every movement. So I don't paint Salafism as a whole as an excess. There are a number of people with whom it is fine that the AIVD has or should have a view on them. I would also ask the Minister directly, because we are all concerned about this. Those are, however, excesses. I am getting the impression that this is not just because of Mr Segers, but because of a number of colleagues in the Chamber that it has become the norm. I'd like to distance myself from that standard. If Mr Segers also distances himself from that, then I am fine with doing so together. Then let's stand shoulder to shoulder. But does the Christian Union therefore distance itself from a list-duster who has ever called gays inferior? Does she therefore distance herself from the statement of an SGP council member in Gouda that he does grant everyone his prayer space, but that he cannot, because Islam does not see Jesus as the son of God? Does she distance herself from that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u49	No, no, Mr. Kuzu. This will make it difficult for Mr Segers, because he has actually already used his interruptions. However, I will give him the opportunity to give a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u50	When I say that I stand for the rule of law and for the equal treatment of all citizens, I stand for that. If Mr Kuzu says that salafism is not so problematic, but that a single person might cause problems, then I really do not know whether we are talking about the same thing. Salafism dreams of a caliphate and unequal treatment of citizens. This is in stark contrast to the freedoms I uphold, which upholds my party and which upholds everyone on our list, regardless of what Mr Kuzu is saying now and which I cannot place at all. We stand for everyone's equality before the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u51	You may give a brief response, Mr Kuzu. Then we'll go to the next speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u52	Here comes the monkey from the sleeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u53	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's really not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u54	Here comes the monkey from the sleeve. There are plenty of people in the Netherlands who are salafistic and live peacefully here. They are entitled to their religion. The people who commit excesses, we can fight together, but to regard an entire flow within Islam as an excess, I do not participate in that. That is what I am saying to Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u55	Thank you. You made your point. I now give the floor to Mr Bontes on behalf of the Bontes/Van Klaveren Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u56	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has more than 475 mosques. They are often financed through controversial fund-raisers and funds from Sharia countries. For example, De Blauwe Mosque in Amsterdam received 2 million from a Muslim brother through the government of Kuwait. A mosque in Rotterdam was built with millions from the United Arab Emirates. Of course, the megamoskee in Gouda cannot go unmentioned. A controversial fundraiser who not only has ties with not only Syrian jihadists, but also with violence groups banned in Germany, is involved in the arrival of that mosque. Influence of extremist organizations such as the Muslim Brotherhood, anti-Western sheikhs or funding by fund-raisers who are in contact with violence organisations is undesirable and even dangerous. However, politics seems blind and deaf. That's why I'm asking the following questions. What measures can the government already take against financial mediation by extremists and organisations? Does the Minister understand the concerns of neighborhood residents in Gouda, among others? How does he indicate the fact that there is virtually no support in the neighborhood, but that the arrival of the Gouda megamosque can still take place? Is the Minister prepared to speak against the advent of this controversial mosque and to act accordingly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u57	Mr. Chairman. We are holding a derivative of a debate tonight, a derivative of a debate. Everyone is talking about financing, salafism and such, but that is not the point. I see colleagues struggling with terms such as 'faith brother' and again with funding. I wouldn't struggle too long with that kind of terms. Everyone who knows his Islamic classics knows that after Saturday Sunday comes. If you know what that means, you're not gonna be happy. We see how that works in the Middle East. Islam is alien to the Jewish-Christian and humanist norms, values and traditions on which Dutch society is founded. The Minister also speaks today on behalf of his colleague Asscher. Minister Asscher likes to seek cooperation with Islamic organisations such as Erdogans Diyanet. Can the Minister say what Islam adds to the values, norms and traditions in the Netherlands? Or: what makes Islam so attractive to cooperate and engage in a dialogue? To sum up, what does Islam have to offer Dutch society for extras? The Gouda megamoskee is the next link to the branch of Islamic ideology. There's only one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u58	Can Mr De Graaf designate the Islam in the Netherlands? Where can I see Islam? Is Islam in this room?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u59	No, no one can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u60	Well, you're gonna have to explain that. You fight Islam, but no one sees it. That's an interesting one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u61	I'm not saying no one sees him. You have to want to see him. That takes study, watching and observation. It takes a lot of work to know exactly what Islam is and what it is to recognize Islam. I'm not gonna lecture on it here. I say to Mrs Karabulut of the SP: dive into the books, dive into the Qur'an, dive into Hadith and dive into the sira. Then you've got enough to read and maybe you'll find out. Until then, it is very difficult to discuss it. Then the SP keeps blabbing to the PVV "you don't know what you're talking about," while Mrs Karabulut herself doesn't know what she's talking about. Dive into the books, study, learn hard, do your best, and maybe you'll find out. I know what it's about; I'm not going to tell you all the secrets, but I actually do that regularly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u62	You're an Islamist in a small way. Soon it will be your ideology, but then the other way around. You fight the same kind of battle as those who think otherwise, or those who want to establish Sharia, or as IS, who prefer to establish a great caliphate. You're starting to look more like that. That's a problem. I call on you to recognise the individual freedom of people to believe what they want within the framework of our rule of law. Do you subscribe to that? If not, you will have the same kind of struggle and you will have more in common with the people you claim to fight than you think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u63	I wonder what Mrs Karabulut has smoked. There's really some total bullshit coming out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u64	No personal charges, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u65	Excuse me. I'll take that back, but there's gonna be total bullshit. How can you blame me for calling me Muhammad, because that is what Mrs Karabulut is doing. Mrs. Karabulut is standing here talking like I made up Islam. Of course, that's total bullshit. That's not about anything. Once again, I take my first point back. I have done so for the second time. But for the rest, it's total quatsch. I am not Muhammad who founded Islam, who invented the taqqiya, who invented the hijara and all that sort of thing. Don't rub that on me. But if you want to know what Islam is, you need to put some time in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u66	I had asked a question which is: does Mr De Graaf recognize the fundamental freedom of religion we have in this country? In other countries, people fight and die for that. We have the individual freedom of religion to experience your religion, whether or not with others, within the limits of the rule of law. Does Mr De Graaf recognise that for everyone, including Islamists, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u67	The first doctrine has already been adopted by Mrs Karabulut. I'd say in the books. If you're in favour of these freedoms, you can only draw one conclusion: you're anti-Islam. But when it comes to people who want to live their faith, of course everyone has these freedoms. If you look at the freedoms that people have fought for and what the PVV talks about so often and with so much passion, you can only conclude one thing: then you are anti-Islam, and not pro like Mrs Karabulut. That Gouda megamoskee is therefore the next link to the branch of Islamic ideology. That is an ideology that the politically correct part of politics mistakenly still sees as a kind of church society. Can the Minister explain why he has closed his eyes to the militant, exclusive....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The mosque in Gouda is no exception. I don't want any of that going on. A mosque is not an Islamic church, but a center of education in Islamic doctrine, of Islamic well-being, of Islamic trade, Islamic sex apartheid and Islamic territorial conquest. The fact that the mosque in Gouda is planned on an old barracks site only makes the comparison wriggle. Maybe now the term "hatehouse" is very appropriate. Remember that conquering this land within Islam will be celebrated as a great victory. Gouda becomes Goudala. There should be no more mosque in the Netherlands and the existing mosques should be closed in order to protect the Netherlands from the Islamization that has already caused so many countries misery. History teaches that wherever Islam comes, Sharia or a large part of Sharia will eventually reign. Can the Minister indicate whether he has any objections to Sharia and, if so, which ones? I have half a minute left, and that's why I'd like to ask you a few more questions. Is the Minister prepared to come up with regulations to close existing mosques and not allow any new mosque? Second best, for the people in Gouda who are so in trouble: is the minister willing to listen to the objections of the neighbors of the planned megamoskee in Gouda, now that local politics is seriously abandoning these people? For everyone, it must be clear that those who sow Islam will reap Sharia. Anyone who refuses to see the dangers of them, whether they may see them but bows to the demands of Islam, is complicit. It's just that you know it all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u68	Mr Marcouch, you have already had two interruptions!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u69	Mr. Chairman. In all contributions Gouda is more or less mentioned, but I really wonder why we are discussing this subject this evening. It's a case of Gouda and the Gouda City Council. I therefore welcome the Minister's position in his letter, which endorses this. The funding has been selected, as it says in the Minister's letter. It has been found that 0.05% of the total amount raised does not come from the Netherlands, but from two other Schengen countries. A Bibob procedure is also taking place in such a procedure, and Mr Deetman has been recruited as external chairman to manage the discussion between residents, stakeholders and initiators. Of course, I can read out here what the group of D66 did in Gouda, but that does not seem to me to be really relevant. We are going to talk about the foreign financing of mosques. We have held a hearing and I assume that we still have a separate general discussion so that we can discuss this in detail. That's why I'd like to leave it at that for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u70	Mr. Chairman. Our freedom of religion means that all religious communities can build their prayer houses, from church to chapel and from temple to mosque, so I say to the PVV group. They pay this with their own private resources, with donations, gifts in the collection bags and benefits. Sometimes the donations come from abroad. That can go wrong in two ways. First of all, it can go wrong with where the money comes from and, second, with what happens to the money. The second one looks at the AIVD, but not at the first one. Luckily, all the research shows that the money wasn't wrong. However, we would like the AIVD to pay attention to the provider of the money. The AIVD must therefore cooperate with foreign intelligence services and our government must use intensive diplomacy. Can the Minister undertake to do this? The second point on which it can go wrong is the question of what happens to the money received. If the receiver doesn't pay attention, sometimes it turns out that the generous giver is a hostile takeover party. That is what happened to the initiators of the Blue Mosque in Amsterdam by Kuwaitis and what happened to the Essalam Mosque in Rotterdam. This is a much better solution than a ban on foreign money. We can prevent other mosques from falling prey to political Salafists from the Middle East. We can do that by making the people there resilient. If they get the property properly captured in time, they'll be out by now. We do not need to wait for a legal ban. This is where our congregations come in. Mayors and aldermen prefer to make the scarce land available to the needs of the local population. For example, they make that land available to residents who need a local prayer house. They do not make that land available to national hotspots of political salafists. The alderman of Gouda told me yesterday that the municipality and the mosque board are now both going for a neighborhood mosque. When municipalities study the experiences of hijacked mosques, they will elaborate on the importance of the corridor to the notary for the proper contractual arrangements with donors and for the recording of property when granting scrapping permits, building permits and inspections. Will the Minister bring this to the attention of the Council of Mosques, the contact body of Muslims and Government and mayors and municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u71	I have another question that has remained. He's actually from Gouda. So it is a local thing, but I would like to hear Mr Marcouch's opinion on this. His PvdA colleague in Gouda, alderman Rogier Tetteroo, has advocated the construction of an apartheid wall between the mosque and the Ark and Gemiva. That wall should be constructed so that the muslims who go to the mosque can take no offense to the perhaps somewhat bare calves of the Christian ladies who work at De Ark and Gemiva. How does Mr Marcouch feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u72	Anyone who has studied the file on the mosque in Gouda knows that local politicians are very critical of that mosque. The mosque's funding has been looked at in a variety of ways. The plans have been looked at, but nothing seems to be wrong with them at all. It's painful for the PVV to admit that. If Mr De Graaf was somewhat a democrat, which I doubt, he would admit to having heard his contribution from just now. The fact that the alderman or the board of the mosque would have pleaded for a wall is another big lie. So it is not true what Mr De Graaf says. He's gonna have to stop voting sometime and make people suspicious. He's got to stop turning people against each other that way. He's gonna have to stop doing that sometime. Let him endorse our Constitution. Let him defend the freedoms that stand in it for all the Dutch, as any democrat should.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u73	This is a nice text from the mouth of the great Salafist from the Chamber. Yet Rogier Tetteroo said this. So Mr Marcouch should not try to get rid of that from the past. It's a fact that Rogier Tetteroo said that. A wall had to be built, or a hedge should be planted. Maybe that's the lie; maybe it was a hedge instead of a wall. In any case there had to be a sight-taking facility so that muslims would not have to take offense at the somewhat bare ankles or calves of the Christian ladies working at De Ark and Gemiva. That's just a fact. How does Mr Marcouch feel about that? Is he talking to his colleague from the Labour Party, who wants that facility? Is he going to explain to him that this is not part of the Netherlands? Mr Marcouch is trying to lecture me, but he is covering his colleague's back. Yeah, so I can make a dhimmi story out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u74	Mr De Graaf should study the Constitution more rather than the Koran. That would really help us in the Netherlands, including these discussions. I repeat what I said before. I've spoken to the people involved. There is no question that the alderman has advocated any wall. The parties concerned are in close consultation with each other making plans to implement a project in the field of care and education, but also a mosque facility, which fits very well into our democracy and the rule of law. That's what's going on over there. That is the reality. If Mr De Graaf objects, he also has a problem with our Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u75	I object to apartheid!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u76	No, you have a problem with the Constitution. That and the complaint about politics itself mean that you do not support the Constitution and democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u77	Mr De Graaf may respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u78	I believe I have now heard three times that I have problems with the Constitution. I find that shocking. I find it very special that indeed the largest salafist in this Chamber, the approximately largest Muslim theologian we have in the Netherlands, who is also politically active and thus a danger to the Netherlands, is teaching me this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u79	I'm a Muslim. I'm proud of that. I am also proud that I live in a country where Article 1 of the Constitution protects those rights and freedoms from you, but at the same time allows you to say what you have just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u80	It is very much to be appreciated when the debate is on content and not on the person. That's very disturbing. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u81	Mr. Chairman. First of all, let me say that it was a very interesting debate. In many areas, it has led to insights and exchanges of views and feelings between the members of the Chamber. In recent months, the coverage of the new mosque in Gouda has led to various issues both locally and nationally, namely several questions in the Chamber, the discussion in Gouda and a discussion in society. By means of a letter and answers to many parliamentary questions, I have provided the Chamber with information on this case. I have done so on the basis of the information I had to ask Gouda specifically for this, because it is very important that I have heard that some of the members are related to Gouda itself, especially the Gouda municipality. As part of the audit, it is therefore also up to the Gouda City Council. The debate has therefore been extensive there. The planning around the mosque is therefore primarily a matter for the municipality and the local community. In the letter of 11 February, I informed the Chamber, on the basis of the information I received from the municipality of Gouda, of the state of play regarding the plans for a new mosque, as they were at the time. In short, these plans included the following. At the end of 2014, a school for special education, an Islamic center and a daycare center signed a letter of intent to investigate joint housing. The municipality then facilitated this process. The empty Prince Willem-Alexander barracks has come out of the bus as a solution for this joint search for a suitable location. The municipality of Gouda will purchase the barracks of the government for the execution and sell some of them to, among other things, the Islamic institution. In particular, the size of the mosque and its alleged funding have led to media and chamber attention. In the meantime, the situation has changed. I informed the Chamber in writing. In mid-March, the mosque administration in Gouda indicated its intention to substantially reduce the size of the mosque. Two independent process counsellors are now working to gain support for this plan among the directly involved inhabitants of Gouda. One member mentioned the involvement of Mr Deetman and a number of other measures taken there. The Chamber has asked at several times what the cabinet thinks about this and whether there are possibilities to stop the construction of the Gouda mosque. First of all, we have a clear separation of church and state in our country. Residents of this country have the right to build a mosque and raise money for this purpose. Of course, those involved must comply with the law. Furthermore, I confirm that, in accordance with the constitutional structure of the Netherlands, the cabinet has not taken a position on this local issue. Before going into the questions, I would like to make a few comments on the financing of this mosque in particular and mosques in general. As indicated in February, the municipality commissioned an investigation into the origin of the funds for the construction of the mosque. I informed the Chamber that the municipality has submitted an application for an opinion to the Bibob National Bureau. This research involves the real estate transaction when the municipality of Gouda would sell a part to the Islamic institution. This trajectory is still ongoing. On the issue of the foreign financing of mosques in the Netherlands in general, the Chamber recently discussed the hearing with among others the head of the AIVD and the NCTV. It has been indicated that research into money flows from abroad is complicated and that foreign financing in itself does not have to be problematic, but can be problematic. The Cabinet considers it important for organisations to be transparent about their funding flows. Therefore, from 2016 onwards, there is an obligation for all organisations registered as a public utility institution (anbi) to disclose the financial records and annual reports. Until now, religious institutions have been excluded from this obligation. This changes from 1 January 2016. The cabinet also calls for maximum transparency even without this obligation, precisely in order to avoid misconceptions and suspicions. There is, of course, no doubt that if, in a specific case, foreign financing could endanger the democratic rule of law and national security, services such as the AIVD will be established and take action. There are also several safeguards, such as the obligation for banks to report unusual transactions, so that services such as the FIOD and the police can work on this. In the decision-making of the new mosque in Gouda, the municipality itself and the institutions involved have a role to play. As I said, if there is a specific reason, the services under the cabinet will be set up and do their job. Then I come to the questions about the mosque. Then I will talk about funding, then about radicalisation and then briefly about salafism. Mrs Tellegen asked whether it was true that a decision should be taken on 8 July on the establishment of plans in Gouda. On 8 July, a decision was taken by the municipal council on the granting of funds to the other two parties, namely the school and the daycare centre. It therefore takes a decision on the implementation of the plan as a whole. The Bibob study, unlike what I just said, has been completed at the end of April and has now been completed. It may be involved in the discussion if the College deems it appropriate. Mrs Tellegen also asked what exactly is the process around the barracks. It has been agreed with the alderman that the municipality will have the opportunity until 15 July 2015 to accept the purchase offer of the Rijksvaastgoedbedrijf. If this does not happen, the open sale procedure of the barracks will be launched in July. The transfer of ownership to the municipality is scheduled for 1 December 2015. Mr Bontes and Mr De Graaf asked whether the cabinet was prepared to abandon a mosque in Gouda. The answer to this can only be that the construction of a mosque is primarily a matter for the local community and local government. In advance, even on the basis of the information I have received from Gouda myself, I am not aware of any facts and circumstances that require me to advise the municipality to abandon this project. Mr Bontes also asked how the project could continue despite the concerns of the residents. It goes without saying that residents in our rule of law always have the opportunity to object to changes in a zoning plan or to specific construction projects in their municipality. Of course, we can do that at the moment. Because Gouda attaches great importance to making decisions in close consultation with local residents, there are currently conversations with those local residents. The local process is therefore ongoing and I see no reason for the government to interfere. I shall then come to the question of funding. Quite a lot of questions have been asked about that. I'll answer that. Mr Oskam and Mrs Karabulut pointed out the involvement of Tarik Ibn Ali, an imam associated with radicalisation and jihadism and involvement in fundraising. Tarik Ibn Ali participated in a fundraiser in which money was collected for the Gouda Muslim community. In general terms, individuals have the right to commit themselves to the recruitment of funds as long as they comply with the law. It goes without saying that the cabinet pays a great deal of attention to preventing radicalisation. That is why, within the framework of measure 20f of the Integrated Approach to Jihadism Action Programme, the cabinet looks very actively at who comes to preach when and where, what the risks are and what we can do about them. Many questions are asked about this in the Chamber and they are always answered. In fact, I am looking at how our policies can be strengthened in this respect. If I have come to any conclusions, I will, of course, inform the Chamber immediately. The same applies to the services concerned. They will intervene when there are concrete indications of involvement of individuals or institutions in a jihadist movement in the Netherlands. This applies not only to the security services, but also, in particular, to the Public Prosecutor's Office and the National Police. Mr Oskam and Mrs Karabulut have asked why funding is not being investigated. This also applies to the fact that research into funding is primarily a matter for the Goudse municipal government. The Goudse municipal council also took up that challenge and had an accountant investigate it. The conclusions have already been discussed extensively in this debate. I won't repeat it. The Bibob National Bureau belongs to my department. In that sense, there is involvement of the government. As I have already said, the Bibob advice has been delivered to the municipality. Mr Segers of the Christian Union has expressed his concerns about foreign financing with an ideological agenda. He pointed out the concern about radicalisation and jihadism. He asked if there was any insight into the long-term likelihood that there would be undesirable influence through funding. First of all, it should be noted that foreign funding of religious institutions in itself does not have to be undesirable. I think that other religious movements in the Netherlands could be frequent. Then you can think of money coming from America, for paying specific, mostly Protestant organizations. That could be very good, and there's nothing to be wrong with that. The same applies when money comes from abroad to finance a mosque. There's nothing wrong with that, but there may be something wrong with it. In this debate, examples have been mentioned that have also played in the past. It is possible that there are undesirable intentions behind the financing that comes from abroad. We can take action against this in a number of ways. The Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU), the police and the AIVD are looking at suspicions of financing terrorism. The Bibob Act can be introduced if there are suspicions of criminal offences. The AIVD can of course act if, because of this funding, there is a threat to national security or the democratic legal order. In any case, the starting point is that we are doing everything we can to prevent and counter radicalisation. That is why there is a great deal of attention to this particular point in the jihadism action programme. A number of members have asked how municipalities are supported. These are actively supported by an expertise unit, but also in general by the NCTV. I myself have conversations with specific risk communities every six weeks in the field of jihadism. I also see that this is highly appreciated. Among other things, the NCTV provides a lot of general information to municipalities about the prevention of jihadism.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u82	To be even more specific, I often felt that in recent times these handles or that perspective of action are not at all so clear, for example when it comes to Tarik Ibn Ali's involvement in fundraising. If there is a signal that such a controversial figure is raising funds for a specific mosque, whether it is this person or another one at a mosque in another municipality, what happens in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u83	That's a question I can't, but I don't have to answer either, because I don't intend to share that information publicly. If I tell you that, it could lead to another attempt being made to escape that investigation. I do not think it is wise to answer Mrs Karabulut's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u84	I understand that, when it comes to the security services, but this is about public, public information and the action of the government, in this case the municipality. Let me give you another example: a foundation that invites a radical hate preacher and, for example, has been recognized by the government as a learning work company to which young people are sent. What should the municipality do in such cases, according to the Minister? Which handles or what scope of action is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u85	These issues are addressed extensively in the Integrated Approach to Jihadism Action Programme. Now I have prepared myself for a debate about the mosque in Gouda and not about learning firms in other municipalities. However, I remember informing the Chamber in writing about the steps taken in this particular case. I remember, but I say that I am not sure that the apprenticeship company concerned has been evaluated or that it is being re-examined as to whether it can continue. In fact, I believe that the position of that apprenticeship company has ended. However, I am not sure about the latter. In general, on the basis of my experience over the last three months as Minister of Security and Justice, I can say that there is an incredible amount of commitment, not only from me, but also from the NCTV, to support municipalities in their responsibility to counter radicalisation and jihadism in their own environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u86	This will be your second interruption, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u87	We only have two?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u88	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u89	Okay, let's do it. I think this is an important point, because I believe that we can avoid a great deal of misery. The second specific example is correct. We have asked questions about this, it is being investigated and action is being taken now. We must, however, ask ourselves why this is happening. Can the cabinet outline a clear perspective of action for municipalities? This question can be answered tonight or if we discuss the approach to jihadism, but should alarm bells go off? The municipality in question must consult associations and mosques who have contacts with these types of figures? We need to know why this is happening. Why are there foundations, associations or other organisations pursuing Salafism and a completely different world, while we facilitate them as a government?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u90	For the answer to that question, I have to refer back to the Integral Approach Jihadism Action Programme and the letters we are sending about its progress. Mrs Karabulut mentions ten aspects of the policy we are pursuing. We have discussed this policy extensively with the Chamber. I certainly invite Mrs Karabulut to conduct the debate if that is the case. My experience is that the municipalities supported by the government are extremely satisfied with the way in which this is done, and not just because substantial funding is made available for all projects which have exactly the aim set out by Mrs Karabulut. Municipalities make their own choices in this respect. They are accompanied, but come to the government with their own projects and then receive the multiannual funding needed to implement these projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u91	We have indeed discussed this in detail, and we shall discuss it in detail. I would remind the Minister that there was a panic reaction from the cabinet. I have the impression that, at least in practice, the approach outlined by the Minister does not always stick and that we, as a government, sometimes act naively. We are going to discuss this at length in further debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u92	I understand that there will be a general discussion on the fight against terrorism on 25 June.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u93	That's my information, too. I do not recognise Mrs Karabulut's suggestion that there is a panic reaction. I think I'm talking to the Chamber quite relaxedly. Under the Integrated Approach to Jihadism Action Programme, we cannot be accused of any panic, especially because we have thought very carefully about it. The action programme has not been drawn up in haste, but in consultation with all the parties concerned. We can see that it is developing. That is why we regularly inform the Chamber of its follow-up, so that we can discuss it with the Chamber. I do not recognize myself at all in the minds of Mrs Karabulut. Mr Oskam and Mrs Karabulut both asked for transparency. I refer to the policy response to research into the foreign financing of Islamic institutions. That policy response has already been discussed in detail here. The recommendations of the researchers were also discussed there. One was the option of creating a transparency register for social institutions. The cabinet is still considering whether we want to do so and whether this contributes to the desired transparency that is needed. It is very important that on 1 January 2016 all religious institutions that are an anbi should publish their financial statements, expenditure and revenue balance sheets and related notes online As of that obligation, financial transparency is expected to increase. In addition to these measures, I see no reason to take further action or undertake further investigations. Of course, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and I are prepared to enter into the discussion with the CMO, if I recall correctly, that is already planned or planned to address these aspects and the role of the CMO in general. Mrs Tellegen and Mr Segers asked whether any additional research could be carried out into the financing and influence of Salafism. If, around a specific institution, a mosque or any other form of institution, it is not only mosques that are looked at in this context that are concerned about the staff, visitors, activities or whatever, appropriate investigation can take place through the Bibob, by the AIVD, by the police, by the criminal intelligence service if necessary or possibly by the FIOD. It also focuses on all those aspects that we are concerned about in this debate. Generic research into the financing of mosques is not possible, as RAND Europe has also identified. Moreover, in the light of the current situation, this is not proportionate. I shall come back to that in a moment. Mrs Karabulut has asked if I agree that jihadists should not be financially supported. She is absolutely right on that point. No one in the Netherlands wants to financially support jihadists and that is what our policy is aimed at. The action programme includes, for example, the possibility of freezing the funds of radicalised or Syrians. That possibility shall also be used. Mrs Tellegen and Mr Segers have asked what I can do. I feel the need for both spokesmen to look at the possibility of getting more information on the potential risks of financing, where it would have an undesirable impact. In the current situation, if there is a specific serious suspicion of influence through foreign funding affecting our democratic rule of law or national security, the intelligence and security services have the task of investigating that influence. So if that condition is met, research will be carried out. If there is no serious suspicion of activities affecting the democratic rule of law or national security, but there is doubt about its financing or origin, then local government has the opportunity to engage an external and independent research agency, just as Gouda has done. If there are doubts about backgrounds of specific institutions and possible business partnerships, in individual cases, the possibility for local government to examine antecedents through the Bibob Act and to seek advice from the national agency may be taken into account. However, it should be noted that the Bibob investigation focuses on criminal offences and that such an investigation also has limitations in the possibilities of consulting foreign sources. Mr Marcouch asked what the cabinet is already doing on this point. We have diplomatic talks that we will intensify where necessary, with countries that give to Islamic institutions in the Netherlands, in particular with the aim of increasing the transparency of these financial flows. So those conversations will take place and we will intensify where necessary. It also discusses with municipalities, local partners and communities how best to achieve transparency with local communities with regard to foreign funding flows. Because when it comes to specific funded institutions, whether they are mosques or otherwise, it is in principle the responsibility of local government to obtain transparency. As of January 1st, it becomes easier because of those anbi's, but not all mosques are anbi's, as not all religious institutions are anbi's. For this purpose, the Transparency Register could provide a solution if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u94	The Minister says there are diplomatic talks going on. That seems very useful to me. This is also a recommendation from the Social Development Council. It is asking for reciprocity to be included in these diplomatic talks. If a country uses freedom here, it should be mutual. When it comes to non-free countries, that is a title to address them and hold the conversation. The Minister has written in a letter that the cabinet wants this. Is that an intensification? Is that a policy change? Is that an intensification of discussions that were not or hardly conducted before, or is this continuation of standing policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u95	I am careful in this, because Mr Segers will understand that this is not my direct policy area, but that of my foreign minister. My information is that the policy is already there, but that it is in development, as there is a lot going on here. We have been and have only recently been able to work very actively on this. My information is that these talks are being intensified, but that they have started and that the diplomatic talks, for which the Chamber has already called for attention, are being held.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u96	As far as I am concerned, I give a warm encouragement, because it is impossible for a country to make full use of freedom here, but it makes freedom impossible there and makes Christian or other minorities miserable. That's an inequality where you have to be very assertive. I do hope that the cabinet will have the courage to engage fully in these talks, to stand up for freedom elsewhere and to use an existing relationship to highlight an important value of our rule of law, namely freedom, freedom of religion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u97	I think it's wise. It is not entirely my job to say so, but I am nevertheless saying that I will transfer the stenogram of this part of the debate to and bring it to the attention of my foreign colleague, so that the warm recommendation and the warm support of the Christian Union Group will end up in the Bureau with him as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u98	I welcome the Minister's commitment to a stronger commitment to diplomacy. During the hearing we understood from both the NCTV and the AIVD that the money flows to the recipients are being looked at, but not at the donors. Does the Minister's commitment mean that from now on AIVD will also look at where the money comes from instead of just looking at who receives it and what happens to it? This transparency would also offer some peace in neighbourhoods and neighborhoods and lectures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u99	I mean, but I say this carefully, that this part has already been carried out. To be sure, I will discuss that point with my colleague from the Interior and Kingdom Relations, who is responsible for the AIVD. I can well imagine that this will be part of the policy. I am prepared to confirm this to the Chamber before the general consultation on 25 June in order to be sure. I come to the point of radicalisation. Mr Oskam has asked whether we are doing everything possible to counter radicalisation. That is a consideration which Mr Oskam must make for himself and a conclusion which he himself must draw on the basis of the action programme we have put in place and which we are implementing in consultation with and after approval by the Chamber. We are all well aware that combating radicalisation is an important part of the action programme. This is mainly about supporting a sound that goes against jihadist ideology. It is about preventing jihadist speakers from coming to the Netherlands. It is also a question of making programmes available in which the risks of radicalisation and the risks of jihadist thinking are addressed in education. We have come here very recently, in consultation with colleagues from Education, Culture and Science. In addition, of course, online attention is also sought in consultation on these issues and even within mosques. Mr Oskam asked whether the list of hate preachers could be made public. That might have been more in line with a debate we had before, because it also covered, among other things, hate preachers. But there is a list available, a so-called alert list of foreign visa-free preachers used during the visa process to make a careful assessment of the issue of that visa. That's not a blacklist. It doesn't mean that someone on that alert list is automatically refused a visa, because as a government you are also obliged to look very carefully at it. The other side of this money is that it may still mean that careful examination and consultation with the local triangle may lead to a visa being not issued to a person who is not on that list or a visa that has already been issued being withdrawn. I am sure Mr Oskam has seen that this has happened around Rijswijk, for example. That alert list is still in full development, so there are also a lot of people not on it, even though we might say, if we looked at it today, that we actually want to put it on it. So care at that point is important. One of the things I do is see how we can further optimize the system we have. I do so in close consultation with a number of colleagues, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, as the person responsible for the intelligence service and myself as the person responsible for security in our society. As soon as I am done, I will inform your Chamber on behalf of my colleagues. Moreover, it is important to note that the local triangle, the mayor, also plays a very important role in that process, because he or she, from the point of view of public order, can play an important role in allowing a preacher over whom there are concerns. Then I come to the subject of salafism. In general terms, I note that my colleague, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, has already promised to your Chamber that he will soon have understood that in or shortly after the summer recess, he will come forward with a cabinet position on Salafism, after he has made an analysis. This analysis will also be reflected in the letter sent to your Chamber and will be made by the AIVD and the NCTV and thus also in cooperation with the Ministers for Security and Justice and Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations. Mr Kuzu has asked whether the AIVD now has a view on excesses that pose a threat. In general, that is of course difficult to answer, because it is the absolute purpose of what the service does, but of course we do not know, and I cannot guarantee here that all persons, excesses or threats that currently exist are in the picture of the service. I think Mr Kuzu understands that. I would just like to point out once again that there really is no such thing as a risk-free society in this area. The chance of an excess is still present, despite all the efforts we are making, however annoying we all think it is. But we will have to keep that in mind in the end. This also keeps us keen to take the necessary measures. The AIVD conducts research, as I said, if necessary for national security and/or for risks to the democratic rule of law. Mr De Graaf has put forward a number of his thoughts here on Islam and his conclusions. In the light of this debate, which is about the mosque in Gouda, I will not go into that further. The debate has also mainly been held by your Chamber. Mr De Graaf has asked if I have any objections to Sharia. Let me say first of all that all the excesses of religions in the form of violence and other extrajudicial activities, and all the provisions and effects contained in Sharia legislation that are contrary to Dutch public order are considered undesirable by me, including as Minister of Security and Justice, and that they are being addressed. For this reason, we have explicitly incorporated into our law, but Mr de Graaf knows this like no other, I think that if foreign legislation is transposed into Dutch law, there will always be a judicial review in the field of public policy, precisely in order to avoid undesirable effects of legislation in other countries, whether it be Sharia legislation or other legislation. That brings me to the end of the reply. I would like to make one more point, to Mr Segers and Mrs Tellegen, about what I can do about whether the Chamber can get a little more information on how funding is going to be financed and what research is being carried out. If there is a serious suspicion of damaging our national security or the democratic legal order, the AIVD will investigate this. I cannot ask my colleague from the Interior to report on this by name and by name and with points and commas. What I can do, however, is to talk to my colleague and ask him if it is possible, for example, to report in a six-month or a year in a general sense, i.e. in an aggregated form, on whether those investigations have taken place and what the overall conclusion was. It may therefore mean that the letter states that no investigations have occurred because there was no reason to do so. If there is a reason, we will indicate how often it occurs and what the findings are in general terms. I can promise that I will discuss this with Mr Plasterk, assuming that he will have a willing ear for it. We are not going to ask the AIVD to act as an additional investigative body. The AIVD does so in the context of its own task, i.e. if there is a danger to the democratic rule of law or national security. That's how I answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u100	I am, of course, very grateful to the Minister for his goodwill and commitment, but I get the impression that he is giving the signal that we are looking for nails on low water, in the vein of: there is nothing going on and if something is going on, we are doing everything we can. The round table showed that the AIVD came up with a very clear report, which clearly states that salafism is increasing in the Netherlands. Isn't it a logical request from the Chamber, which was there two years ago, to get a closer look at it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u101	That is also why my colleague from Social Affairs and Employment has promised an analysis and a cabinet position on salafism and the influence of Salafism in the Netherlands. I believe that this aspect is adequately covered. If that were not the case, the time has come to hold the debate with the cabinet in response to the cabinet's position on Salafism.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u102	My question may not have been clear enough, but it concerns, in particular, the flow of funding. This is a way to see to what extent influence is exerted on mosque authorities in the Netherlands from abroad. If we get a closer look at these funding flows, that also means something about development. It could have added value to the trend AIVD has long pointed out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u103	That is exactly why I make the commitment I make. I would like to discuss with Mr Plasterk the possibility of informing the Chamber, how often this has happened and what its results have been, in a number of months' time, if investigations have been conducted by the AIVD. What I really want to be careful about is that we are going to use the AIVD as a kind of research institute to do general research into something that we have no signals that anything can be found. That's my problem. RAND Europe says it doesn't have enough opportunities. This is quite clear from the feasibility study. I understand very well what both Mrs Tellegen and Mr Segers are saying and asking. I would also like to know, but whether we like it or not, I note that RAND Europe finds in the feasibility study that this information is difficult to find and cannot be obtained. For this reason, there is no reason to pursue further research in the way that RAND Europe would have done otherwise. Then there is only one thing left, and that is, if I understood correctly, that was also the subject of the hearing. When the AIVD conducts an investigation, it is reported here in the Chamber by way of a highly exceptional procedure because of the questions raised in the Chamber. Please note: as an exception. That happens in a general sense, so without being able to trace it back to an individual case, and includes the fact that those investigations have taken place and what the outcome was. That may mean, in all honesty, that if those investigations do not take place, we also have nothing to report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u104	Mr Segers, there is also a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u105	Yes, but this is an important point. I feel like there's still some noise on the line. This debate is, you might say, incident policy, because we are looking at Gouda and we are talking about Gouda, which is perhaps much more of a local issue. What we should want is to get away from that incident policy and look much more at trends and developments. The AIVD has offered several studies for this purpose. That is the annual report, but these are also specific studies on salafism, developments in salafism and new trends. The final analysis is that the boundary between jihadism and salafism is fading. These are qualitative statements, not so much on the basis of incidents or direct indications that criminal offences have been committed, but it is a qualitative study.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u106	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u107	I do not care who is doing this qualitative study, but what we want and what we hope is possible is to look at those international aspects of Salafism. What influence is taking place from abroad? What developments do we see there? We would like a study on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u108	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u109	That could be a letter from the cabinet, it could be...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u110	Mr Segers, it really has to be short!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u111	Yes, but this is an important point!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u112	Everything's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u113	Just a little longer. I tabled a motion for a resolution two years ago, which is my frustration, which is benevolent. It took us two years to get an investigation and nothing came of it! I'd find it very frustrating if we had another investigation that didn't come out. I would find it very frustrating if we could not take another step now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u114	I understand Mr Segers' frustration, because I share it. I was there when that question was asked, and I was there when the investigation came. I have read it and found that the investigation was made for very understandable reasons: we cannot actually meet it; there is no point in continuing the investigation. The subject of Salafism has been raised extensively by my colleague from Social Affairs and Employment. He promised to do exactly what Mr Segers asked for, namely to carry out an investigation into it and to have it analysed, including an analysis of the AIVD, which is clear, because the AIVD was equipped to do so and then to inform the Chamber accordingly. I think this answers the question put by Mr Segers. That is the letter that Mr Asscher has promised to the Chamber. Then there is a second aspect, one aspect that I am also listening to in the Chamber, namely the question of the current financial flows. What Mr Segers just said was much more general. What about the salafism influence? The question of whether or not the separation between Salafism and jihadism is blurring is addressed in the letter that Mr Asscher will send to the Chamber on my behalf. I will, of course, take with me the comments that have been made on this point. There is still the question of how we can facilitate a little more understanding of these funding flows. I said: I cannot offer the Chamber more than that, if the department has investigated it, we will report in a number of months on how many times we have done so and what the results were. I would say, let us take a year for that, but if the Chamber thinks it is too long, I would also like to have it reported in six months' time. That would, by the way, be done by my colleague in the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I'll be happy to have that conversation with him, if the Chamber appreciates it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u115	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u116	I can be very short. It seems clear to me that we are giving direction to the investigation on this issue and that we are then presenting it. I shall be tabling a motion on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u117	Thank you. I think you were ready, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u118	Yeah, I was done. No, one last comment. So let me say that we are still discussing this on 25 June, that we will undoubtedly be discussing Salafism in the light of the letter from my colleague, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, and that I have also greatly appreciated this exchange of views with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u119	Thank you. Then we have arrived at the second term of office. I'll take a look around and see if there's any need. That's the case. Speaking time is one minute, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u120	Mr. Chairman. Two short points. The first is Bibob. I heard the minister say that the results of the Bibob investigation were sent to Gouda, but the city council doesn't know them. So my question is when and to whom they were sent. Shouldn't the city council have that report before deciding on the purchase and sale? It is still unclear to me what is going on with these money flows. I've heard the Minister say he wants to talk to the CMO. I think that's very good. I welcome that, too. However, other directors are also involved, such as the Secretary of State for Finance and the Minister responsible for Integration. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that RAND has carried out research into the foreign financing of Islamic institutions;]] [[whereas only one Islamic institution was willing to share its annual financial report with RAND during the investigation;]] [[Whereas, as of 1 January 2016, all Islamic institutions should publish their annual financial data online and so far this is not or hardly the case;]] [[Whereas, if institutions do not do so, their anbi-status is withdrawn;]] [[calls on the Government to engage with the Contact Body Muslims and Government to promote Islamic institutions to work as quickly as possible on transparency regarding their funding;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Oskam and Mr Tellegen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34000-VI-89]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u121	Does this motion also apply to Christian and Jewish institutions, or is the CDA and the VVD only about Islamic institutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u122	If Mr Kuzu had paid attention, he would have followed my speech. It applies to all anbi settings. It applies to political parties, i.e. the CDA, the VVD, the Labour Party, the Socialist Party and other parties registered as an anbi. It applies to Catholic and Protestant churches. They all do. However, the research that Mr Segers has put in place shows that one Islamic institution is doing this and the rest is not. That's okay, but they'll lose that status. However, we would prefer it to be transparent. That's what we're here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u123	I don't know if I should ask the question to the CDA or the minister. Maybe I should do that in second term. Can the Minister therefore give access to the number of ecclesiastical and Jewish institutions that are willing to give them openness? The feeling that I am concerned with this motion is that it is only aimed at one community of faith in the Netherlands, and I am fighting that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u124	I'd like to answer that as well. It's not like that. It's all online. So I'd say turn on the computer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u125	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. I'm reading the motion announced. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are financial and human links between Salafist organisations from non-free countries and mosques, associations and other organisations in the Netherlands with a salafistic signature;]] [[whereas it is not clear how much financial and human assistance is from abroad and that an exploration of RAND Europe has not been able to clarify this;]] [[whereas it is completely undesirable to have an ideological agenda in the Netherlands that is contrary to fundamental freedoms in support and financing from abroad;]] [[Whereas the AIVD has already carried out and published several studies on the development of Salafism in the Netherlands and the threat to its democratic legal order;]] [[Calls on the Government to identify, for those mosques and organisations suspected of having anti-legal influences, the extent, nature and risks of the aforementioned foreign financial and human support, and to report to the Court at the beginning of 2016 on the outcome of this investigation and where problems are identified on the related measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Tellegen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34000-VI-90]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u126	Mr. Chairman. I think this debate was about two questions. How do we deal with all questions, fears and sometimes prejudices, sometimes rightly and sometimes unjustly, about the financing of mosques related to salafism and jihadism? And quite specifically: how can we get more control over jihadist or salafistic organisations operating in the Netherlands with a very political purpose? I have to say that I find the Minister's answers unsatisfactory on a number of points. For example, I asked if the Minister was prepared to offer municipalities, mosques and all the others involved. Then they have an action perspective and know what to do when there is an invitation to or the arrival of radical preachers. Then they know which organizations, associations and foundations do business with radical preachers and/or salafist organisations. Then they'll know how to deal with it. Then it is clear why organizations and mosques apparently have the need to do so. That way we can get past incident policy. The Minister refers to the next debate at the end of June. Is the Minister prepared to give us this insight for this debate? Colleagues have also spoken about foreign financing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u127	You really need to wrap up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u128	I'm gonna finish up. In the round table, the AIVD made it very clear that large amounts of money are coming from the Gulf States, but no research is being carried out into their origins.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u129	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u130	I think that needs to be changed. My final point: is it true that journalists have submitted WOB requests to gain access to the research into the funding flows of the Gouda mosque and that this has been refused?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u131	Thank you! We have agreed speaking time and everyone has to respect it. The same goes for Mrs Karabulut. Mrs Tellegen has waived a second term. I call Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u132	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions put by the Chamber. We find it striking that this debate has been requested by a number of political parties in response to media commotion. I have a bunch of written questions in front of me. The Minister has regularly provided the Chamber with information. Apparently, this debate was needed for that too. In my view, the Minister gives answers that are also good for the community in Gouda. The answers are very realistic. I really hope that those Members who have asked all these written questions have received answers to their questions. I understand that the debate is being widened. We shall now come to these issues. But the request for this kind of debate in connection with incident policy does not fit the Chamber. We do not want to participate. I therefore call on my colleagues not to do so anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u133	Mr. Chairman. It's a strange debate. Some of us have noticed that before me. I thought it was an ostrich debate. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Gouda municipality had a dubious role in the decision-making process concerning the authorisation of the construction of a megamoskee at the barracks in Gouda;]] [[Whereas many residents and a majority of the city council have expressed their concerns about the construction of this megamoskee, but are not taken seriously by the municipal council;]] [[calls on the government to take seriously the concerns of the residents by using all means necessary to prevent the construction of this mosque,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34000-VI-91]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u134	Finally, two brief motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Islam is completely alien to the Jewish-Christian and humanist norms, values and traditions on which Dutch society is built;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt regulations prohibiting the establishment of new mosques,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Islam is completely alien to the Jewish-Christian and humanist norms, values and traditions on which Dutch society is built;]] [[calls on the government to close all existing mosques,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34000-VI-92]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34000-VI-93]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u135	Both the final motion and the motion for a resolution run counter to the Constitution. Does Mr De Graaf subscribe to our Constitution and thereby to the freedoms in the Constitution, including freedom of religion? Or does he want this article to be deleted from the Constitution or that other rules apply to Muslims?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u136	An ideology does not fall within the scope of freedom of religion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u137	We can have a discussion about freedom of ideology, but Islam is a religion. I note that Mr De Graaf does not support the Constitution and the freedom of religion in it, or at least treats Muslims differently from the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u138	Both observations are pertinently incorrect. You don't have to give an ideology freedom of religion. We don't do that with communism if they want a temple or something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u139	Do Muslims have religious freedom?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u140	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u141	Does religious freedom include the exercise of your religion and, if so, why is it submitting that last motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u142	I didn't understand that last part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u143	Religious freedom generally assumes that this is the freedom to experience your religion. If that is true, why is Mr De Graaf tabling that last motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u144	I will answer that in the same way as Mr Marcouch, and that is because Islam is an ideology and not a religion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u145	It's easy to run away from the facts. I understand that Mr De Graaf is obliged to go to Koranles every week by Mr Wilders. Apart from that, does he understand that this kind of motion causes 1 million Muslims in this country to be hurt, while they are Dutch citizens? Does he know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u146	Mr Kuzu shouldn't be so emotional and shouldn't say anything weird. That's point one. The second point is that Koran, Hadith and Sirah together are also your handbooks, Mr Kuzu, containing 9.3% uncircumcised hatred of Jews and 51% of kafir hatred and commands to kill, hunt and war Jews and kafirs. That makes 60.3%. Then 31% is also about the jihad. Well, I can't say...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u147	But...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u148	Mind if I finish my sentence? I can't really feel accepted by that. So don't turn it around!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u149	I asked a very simple question. If we have to follow Mr De Graaf's reasoning, we have 1 million criminal people in the Netherlands. That's the frame he keeps throwing up here. That is not the case at all. Why does he choose to feed the gut feelings of a certain group in our society in this way, to turn people against each other in this way? Is that gonna fit? Is that even justified? Does he not now provide the ground for radicalisation? I dare say that the PVV is the cause of radicalising young people. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u150	I was afraid for a moment that clown Bassie was right in front of me, but it was Mr. Kuzu. He's making the same mistake as Mrs. Karabulut in the first term. I mention facts, Koran facts, Hadith facts and Sirah facts. That is Mr Kuzu's ideology. Now Mr Kuzu is trying to pin that ideology on me, as if I were making it up. I unravel the knacks of hard-to-understand ideology. That is the ideology that Mr Kuzu is committed to, and I do not even need to do so on a weekly basis on Koranles; that is up to me. Mr Kuzu is here to report that I invented Islam. We shouldn't make it crazier, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u151	If you report a personal statement, Mr Kuzu must respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u152	I didn't hear a personal statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u153	Then we'll go to Mrs. Berndsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u154	I shouldn't think that a MP from the PVV should have invented Islam. I don't have to think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u155	Then you shouldn't say it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u156	I thought I had the floor, but okay. I have listened to your nonsense and now you must listen to my nonsense in your eyes. It is very striking that demand is constantly being evaded. So again and for the last time: does Mr De Graaf realize that he is putting 1 million people in Dutch society, the Netherlands he says he loves, in a corner? Don't let him do that!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u157	Thank you, Mr Kuzu. You've made your point. You may respond to this, Mr De Graaf, and then it is done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u158	Mr Kuzu reiterates the question to which I have just given a comprehensive answer. He is getting unreally emotional about that and is going to have a bit of a crying about it here. He does so on the basis of the facts of his own ideology, facts I mention here. If Mr Kuzu can't stand those facts and if he feels exposed by them, then I'll tell him: bad luck, boy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u159	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and, in particular, for the commitment to have the AIVD and the NCTV also look at the donors of the money. I would also like to thank him for his commitment to intensify diplomatic efforts, or at least to discuss them with colleagues. I also asked the Minister, together with local directors, the Council of Mosques and the contact body Muslims and Government, to look at how we can make local communities more resilient against the hijacking of local initiatives by big money lenders, who then also claim ownership. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. We see all the institutions finding that there is nothing wrong with the financing and building of mosques. However, there is a lot of attention to it, which is often negative. This increases resistance in neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods to exercising the right to freedom of religion. I also address the Minister as Minister of Honor. Does he also see a role for himself in actively protecting this freedom of religion? We can't always approach people as suspects until proven otherwise, can we? You can't do that in criminal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u160	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber who have congratulated me on answering the questions raised in this debate. I admit that it has also been difficult occasionally, because you are preparing for a debate on a matter that concerns the Gouda municipal administration in particular, and that debate then turns into a debate that has been going on many ways, not all in the same direction. Topics have been discussed which have often been discussed at other times in the Chamber, which have been discussed in Parliamentary questions or which fit in with the Integral Approach Jihadism Action Programme. I shall begin by answering Mr Marcouch's question. I can say two things about that. Yes, as Minister of Honor, I am always prepared to take the necessary measures where freedom of religion is compromised. Before that, he made a comment about supporting local government and the local resilience of communities. These are aspects that my colleague, Mr Asscher, for Social Affairs and Employment, is particularly concerned with. That is why we share responsibility for the Integrated Approach to Jihadism Action Programme. I am involved in this with regard to repression and the measures to be taken in that context. Minister Asscher is involved in this in particular in the field of prevention and all measures to be taken in this context. In general, however, I have already said to the Chamber during the debate a number of times that support for the local authorities, in particular the municipalities, is explicitly included in our task. A huge effort is also being made on this. Mrs Karabulut said that she did not recognize herself in some of my answers. At least she didn't think they were enough. She then mentioned points on which I think I have spoken quite extensively and to which the cabinet has also given quite extensive attention. Mrs Karabulut may not be satisfied quickly on these points. However, I cannot offer her more than we have already done. She then asked about a WOB request, but I do not know what Mrs Karabulut is talking about. You can see that as an entrapment, Mr President, because I am happy to answer her question. However, I am generally unaware of individual WOB requests received within my department.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u161	Mr Marcouch has been waiting for some time at the interrupting microphone. He can ask a question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u162	I understand the Minister's response. I understand that he refers to the Minister for Social Affairs and Integration. I only address the Minister of Security and Justice as the Minister of Honor who regularly and regularly consults with religious movements and passions. I ask him to discuss this issue with the Islamic community and the organisations in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u163	That's what I promised. Mr Asscher and I have already decided to have a discussion with, among other things, Emcemo, precisely to discuss the aspects raised here and the points raised by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u164	This is not a direct WOB request to the minister or department, but to the municipality that investigated the financing of this Gouda mosque. The PWC study would show that only 0.05% comes from abroad. There has been a request from ThePostOnline, but the municipality refuses access. This surprises me, because we all note and conclude here that transparency is extremely important. That is why I am asking for a response from the Minister. Is he willing to ask the municipality to make the investigation public?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u165	No, I don't have that willingness. That also makes sense, because it is a matter of the municipality of Gouda itself. I do not see any role for me to play in this. If anyone disagrees with a rejection of a WOB request, there is an open course of action. That is the right way to do something about it. It would be very bad if a minister walked through a court of law and interfered in a local matter. As long as I am not on the city council of Gouda or a member of the mayor and aldermen's college, I see no task for me. I'm Minister of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u166	I do not understand how this relates to the statements made by this Minister and the Chamber that transparency is important, especially as far as funding is concerned. Because there is such a good result in the sense that it has proved that there was hardly any foreign money involved, I do not understand the objection. I do not know whether the journalists have given legal effect to this, but I find it strange, because we are all striving for transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u167	I understand Mrs Karabulut's thinking, but I still find it strange that she is asking this question to the Minister of Security and Justice, who has no responsibility whatsoever, either for the investigation or for the apparent refusal of a WED request, let alone for the consequences and choices that journalists make in connection with it. As long as I am not a member of the College of Mayors and Aldermen of Gouda, I really cannot answer that. I'm getting to the motions. Through their motion in part No. 89 members call on Oskam and Tellegen to consult with the contact body of Muslims and Government to ensure that Islamic institutions work on transparency about their funding as soon as possible. In general, I note that it would not be appropriate to ask only Islamic institutions to open up their funding. That would be strange. After all, we never measure as a government with double standards. This also means that I cannot support or assess this motion in a positive way. I should ask a specific ideological movement to be transparent, whereas I should not have to do so to a number of other religions within Dutch society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u168	Mr Oskam, you may make one comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u169	I would like to amend the motion and say that this also applies to the Catholic and Protestant Church, but it has been open for some time now. RAND's investigation has shown that it is an Islamic institution that does not open up. That is also apparent from the hearing. I'm just filing the motion to help, not to stigmatize people. It is to help, so it will be good on 1 January 2016, otherwise they will lose their status, with all the consequences. I don't want to drive a wedge or double standards. It's just obvious that there's a problem there. That is something that needs to be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u170	I find that difficult. We've talked about this extensively. I said that the Cabinet considers transparency important and that it has taken measures to ensure that this should be transparent for all anbi institutions by 1 January 2016. I cannot judge whether the Catholic Church and the Protestant Church in the Netherlands, PKN, are transparent about their funding. I have no knowledge of that and I don't know if it is. If I wanted to make a different assessment of such a motion, it would have to be formulated in general terms. Then the question arises as to whether it is proportional, because then the question is what is the problem with funding religious institutions that are not anbi. All anbi's will be transparent as of 1 January 2016. That's a legal obligation. I can talk to the CMO about that, but I can also talk to the CIO about that. In my opinion, the CMO is even involved in this last consultation, but I do not know exactly at the moment. Let me conclude with that. If the motion stays that way and only asks to speak about the Islamic institutions, I am afraid I must discourage the motion. Because I think I'm gonna do something that doesn't fit in with our... If Mr Oskam would amend the motion so that I would be asked in the motion to remind the non-anbi-organisations, in general terms, in the consultations I have as Minister of Honor, that it is desirable for transparency to be aimed at, then I will leave the judgment on the motion to the Chamber. Then I think it is reasonable to do so both with regard to Islamic institutions and with regard to the other religious institutions as long as they do not have an anbi-status.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u171	Mr Oskam, just a comment on the motion. We're not going to have another debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u172	I'm not. I have a procedural remark. I hear the Minister's objections, and I will give them some thought. It's not Tuesday yet. I'm going to talk to Mrs Tellegen and perhaps some other MPs. We can always see if we can change the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u173	I'd like to clarify something. The hearing clearly showed that it is unknown to the Islamic institutions that an annual report is required. You're only helping them by pointing this out to them. The other institutions, the ecclesiastical institutions, are already doing it all. They're familiar with anbi status.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u174	It doesn't say that. It says "Islamic institutions" in a general sense. If Mrs Berndsen says that the motion is meant to be, and I am looking at Mr Oskam in order to talk only about the institutions with an anbi-status, I am happy to point them out. Then it's a legal obligation. Mr Oskam says that it would be good if the institutions, including the Islamic institutions, I would rather do it wider than just the Islamic institutions, even if it is perhaps unnecessary, as Mrs Berndsen says, to mention anbi-status. I have no problem with doing that. Thus, to the extent that one is obliged to do so, anyone can comply with that legal obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u175	A brief explanation, Mr Oskam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u176	We mean the anbi settings. There's something the Minister has to offer. The minister can say they'll lose it if they don't, with all the consequences that that will have for them. Of course, the Minister can do the same for these other institutions, but that makes no sense. After all, when one says not to do it, one does not do it. So it refers to the anbi settings. I have another point. The Minister answered a number of questions and then moved on to the examination of the motions. However, I asked a question about Gouda's Bibob research. The city council doesn't know anything. What does the Minister know about this and how does it proceed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u177	When I gave my introduction, I said I didn't intend to follow in the footsteps of the city council of Gouda. I will not do that on this point either. If the city council does not know about anything, it is up to the city council to give an opinion on this in the direction of the municipal council. It is not for me as a minister to give an opinion on what the municipal council has done in relation to the city council.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u178	That was said at the beginning of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u179	I heard that, but then the question is very specific: did you give it to the mayor or to the college of mayor and aldermen? At least that way we know where it is now. Then it is up to the city council to discuss this with the mayor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u180	My information is that the Bibob investigation is complete. This has been requested by the college of mayor and aldermen of the municipality of Gouda. That will also have been the case. It is up to the city council to conduct the discussion with the municipal council. I shall come back to the Oskam/Tellegen motion on part No. 89. If it is adapted in such a way that, for example, there are not 'Islamic institutions' but 'these Islamic institutions' or 'the Islamic institutions referred to above', then I am prepared to draw the attention of the Islamic institutions to this, given the problems raised that they are not aware of the anbi-status and the obligations associated with it. That means I'll leave the verdict on the motion after that adjustment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u181	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u182	Then I come to the Segers/Tellegen motion in part No. 90. This motion is in line with the debate I have had with Mrs Tellegen and Mr Segers. I will discuss this possibility with Mr Plasterk, the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. That is in line with the commitment I made. That's how I see the motion. In accordance with the request, we will report at the beginning of 2016 on the investigations that have taken place, but in such a way that it does not provide any information that should not be known. This is a question of investigation by the intelligence and security services. In doing so, I can leave this motion to the House. I shall now turn to Mr De Graaf's motion for a resolution. 91. It asks the government to take the concerns of residents seriously. I do not quite understand how this motion came about. In reply to Mr De Graaf's question, I explained very clearly that it is not at all up to me as a minister to have an opinion on this. I think Mr De Graaf is also aware of his experience. It is up to the municipality to take the concerns of local residents seriously. I have already said that the municipality of Gouda has taken a number of measures. Among other things, she has appointed a number of project leaders who talk to local residents. In addition, a court is open to local residents. That is the system that we have democratically chosen with each other in the Netherlands. That means that this motion sees on a case that is either up to the municipal administration or to the judge. That's why I have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u183	I understand the Minister is throwing it on Thorbecke's house. I'm keeping these things apart, too. However, you can visit as a minister, show your sympathy, and see what you can try to do to take care of yourself. Perhaps the Minister could talk informally to people from the municipal administration to see if there is anything to be done. Maybe some influence is possible. That's allowed, isn't it, in a human way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u184	Yes, but not about how municipalities deal with residents' objections. My impression is that Gouda has dealt very carefully with the feelings among residents. That does not mean that everyone agrees with that, but that people have a great deal of eye for it. It is then strange that I, as a minister, should make a working visit to have me more informed about that responsibility of the municipal administration. I'm Minister of Security and Justice, not Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations. I do not see any role for this colleague either. So I advise against this motion. I shall then come to the motion on part No. 92, in which the PVV Group, through Mr De Graaf, calls for legislation to prohibit the establishment of new mosques. I do not see in any way how this motion fits in with the policy we are pursuing in the Netherlands, let alone with the agreements we have made in the Constitution. The motion is contrary to the freedom of religion. That is why I strongly advise against the motion. The same applies to the motion in part No. 93, asking to close all existing mosques. I don't see any reason why mosques should be shut down. That too would be contrary to the freedom of religion and, therefore, to our Constitution. I must therefore strongly discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-18.u185	We shall vote on the motions tabled on Tuesday 16 June. I would like to thank the Minister, the Members of Parliament, the officials, the people in the public gallery and those who have followed the debate in a different way.
