ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u1	Before we do this, we must wait for the person responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u2	I welcome the Minister for Education, Culture and Science and give the floor to Mr Monasch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. This is an intermediate position in the debate. We are preparing ourselves for the frameworks of the arts plan. That's what I'm saying to all the listeners. We would like to make two points. That is why my group has requested this VSO. I'll start with culture education. The Minister responded to it in her letter. Several motions have been adopted on this subject, including a motion by Mrs Ouwehand on monitoring which included our signature and a motion by Mr Van Veen and myself. In her letter of 25 August, the Minister wrote that she wanted to draw up a reference framework for cultural education together with education, cultural institutions and local authorities, in order to give culture education a clearer place. Can the Minister promise that this will be done? When will that come? This is crucial for the further implementation of the motions adopted. The Minister has sent us a letter stating how she intends to implement a number of motions that have been adopted. She had initially advised against these motions. We cannot live entirely with some of the content and see a number of other priorities. That is why I am tabling the following motion on behalf of Mr Van Dijk of the SP, Mrs Keijzer of the CDA and Mr Pechtold of D66. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that in the main cultural policy 2017-2020, EUR 2.6 million per year has been made available for additional support to festivals to be distributed through the cultural funds;]] [[Whereas a number of strong festivals, both internationally and in the region, are important in order to develop an accessible range of art throughout the country, and these are already appealing examples;]] [[Whereas the additional resources for festivals in the current plans are used through funds in such a way that there is a risk of budget fragmentation, whereas sharp choices need to be made;]] [[Whereas, by adopting a motion on a ninth youth group in the BIS, the Chamber did not intend to restrict other groups in their possibilities;]] [[calls on the government to include the following festivals in the BIS and, in addition to their current grant from the Podium Art Fund, to release the following amounts from the additional funding for festivals:]] [[for the festival Old Music €400,000 per year;]] [[for Oerol €250,000 per year;]] [[Invites the Government to consult the Culture Council on good future-proof embedding and financing, in the BIS or in any other way, with an additional €350,000 per year for Cinekid and €200,000 per year for the Dutch Dance Days;]] [[calls on the government to pay the money needed for an additional youth group in full from the extra money for festivals;]] [[calls on the Government to add to the Culture Funds the remaining funds for additional subsidies earmarked for festivals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Monasch, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Keijzer and Mr Pechtold. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22820-172]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u4	A motion will then be tabled by my colleague Mr Keijzer, who will also be tabled on behalf of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u5	The PvdA is now in fact taking over the role of the cultural funds. It is nice for the festivals that they receive subsidies through Mr Monasch and his companions. My question to Mr Monasch is what criteria he will use to subsidise, for example, BoeCult at Saint Agathaplein in Boekel, but not the Groede Festival on South Beveland. I believe that these people, too, have the right to know what criteria Mr Monasch has to meet in the future in order to obtain subsidies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u6	That's a good question. I look forward to Mr Van Veen's proposals with interest. We are dealing with a difference of vision in general. We have not been chosen to sign every opinion of a particular body, as we have pointed out from the outset in this discussion. In addition, in the previous period there have been some rough cuts at international festivals, which can no longer develop and threaten to fall. It is high time that more money went there. I should also like to point out that we are in favour of Mr Van Veen calling for a better regional distribution rather than simply sending the money to the Randstad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u7	Mr. Chairman. During the VAO, Mr Monasch and I tabled a motion to create an overarching reference framework for cultural education. The reaction to this motion was perhaps still too vague. I would ask the Minister to clarify what she is really going to do. Does the Minister agree with the VVD that cultural education should be given a place throughout education? I congratulate the Minister on the way in which she has dealt with the adopted cultural motions. More clearly, the Minister could not say: adding festivals or institutions to the BIS is at the expense of the total budget of each individual applicant. The Chamber must be conditional and draw up transparent criteria on the basis of which it is clear to everyone why they are or are not eligible for public support. That smart formulation will be submitted to the Chamber very soon. At that time, we can discuss with each other whether the criteria are being properly applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u8	Mr. Chairman. Mr Monasch's motion has my support; I have also co-signed it. However, the motion does not solve an underlying problem in the cultural sector: simply the lack of budget. As a result, too often there is a redistribution of poverty and budget cuts. With a little extra budget, you can fix that. That will be settled in the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Culture Council recommends that an additional EUR 29,5 million be invested in culture in the next policy period (2017-2020);]] [[noting that the government is investing an additional EUR 18.5 million;]] [[considers that additional investments are needed to maintain a vital cultural sector;]] [[calls on the government, EUR 10 million extra, to invest in culture, finding coverage in budget flexibility in the OCW budget, and having the Culture Council deliver an opinion on the implementation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-38820-173]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u9	Mr. Chairman. During the AO I asked the Minister what the criteria are on the basis of which the budget is distributed among the festivals. However, I did not get a clear answer. During that AO I immediately indicated that as far as I am concerned there are a number of other festivals that deserve structural funding. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that in the main cultural policy 2017-2020, EUR 2.6 million per year has been made available for additional support to festivals to be distributed through the cultural funds;]] [[Whereas a number of strong festivals, both internationally and in the region, are important in order to develop an accessible range of art throughout the country and are already appealing examples of these need to be strengthened;]] [[invites the Government to consult the Council for Culture on good future-proof embedding and funding in the BIS or in any other way, with €400,000 extra per year for the Dutch Design Week and €200,000 per year for the Theatre Festival Den Bosch, funded from the budget of EUR 2.6 million for the festivals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer and Mr Monasch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22820-174]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u10	I give the floor to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science to respond to the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u11	Mr. Chairman. Mr Monasch asked when the reference framework on cultural education would appear. That's what's gonna happen in the middle of 2016. Mr Van Veen also asked a question about cultural education. I agree with him that cultural education should have a place in the whole education system. That's what we're doing. We have cultural education with quality for primary education. In secondary education, we have retained the CKV course. For the MBO we entered the MBO card. Those are all ways to...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u12	I'm gonna go help you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister is speaking! Can you keep your voice down so that she can hear herself and the people who want to hear her, for example those in the public gallery?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u13	We consider cultural education to be important for the whole of education. In fact, with all the discussions about skills for the future, it is really only more important to stimulate creativity in young generations. We will make a firm commitment to this in the years to come. The framework is created together with educational and cultural institutions with local and provincial directors. In particular, the ownership of education is very important, so that it is developed jointly and is not just something of the cultural institutions, supply-oriented, which is sometimes simply not used because teachers do not recognize it. As I have just said, the letter will follow in mid-2016. With regard to the motion in part No. Mr Monasch, Mr Van Dijk, Mr Keijzer and Mr Pechtold, I understand the wishes of the Chamber. It is technically feasible and I shall leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber. I note that the proposers want to bring two festivals to the BIS, namely Old Music and Oerol. I'll take care of that. They are looking for a solution for two institutions, namely the Dutch Dance Days and Cinekid in the BIS or outside. However, it seems to me that it is most logical for these two institutions to create a function for this in the BIS, because I cannot place these companies in the BIS. I can place posts in the BIS and ask the Culture Council to advise me on who signed up for those posts and who got it. So that can very well be these institutions, but they can also be others. I would add that I understand the wishes of the Chamber. I also leave the judgment to the Chamber, but it is at the expense of many other festivals. These are festivals that often attract a young audience, which are focused on talent development and also serve the province. I would like to mention a few which have not been mentioned in the motion, but which I very much appreciate. In this context I mention Into the Great Wide Open, with visual art and music, especially for young generations on Vlieland. Another example is Deventer op Stelten, a beautiful city and neighborhood festival in which many people from the city and the region participate. Mrs Keijzer mentioned the Theatre Festival Boulevard in Den Bosch and I also add Noorderslag/Noorderzon in Groningen and Music Meeting in Nijmegen. None of them are gonna be happy. I hold the proposers to this mirror, because I am sure these festivals will find the Chamber as well. The Court often pleads with me for activities in the region, but less is available for them. I am also saying here and perhaps it already sounds a little bit through at the festivals that I myself call "I do not think the choice is innovative, with all due respect to the Chamber. It is mainly the establishment that is served. It's safe and I have nothing against it. It is also very important, but with this motion more money is given to the more established festivals, which makes us less left for renewal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u14	Does Mr Van Veen have a question about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u15	I really wonder what happened between July and today, when the Minister, in general consultation, indicated quite clearly that this type of motion was not recommended. It follows the line of the VVD that we establish criteria as Chambers and that independent parties then test those criteria. To my surprise, the Minister now indicates that she will leave the opinion on this motion to the Chamber. I would like to know from her what happened between July and October 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u16	I note that between July and October I failed to convince the Court of Justice of the argument I gave at the time. I note that there is now a motion with a very broad majority in the Chamber, given the signatories. I note that this motion has a number of disadvantages but is technically feasible, and that I respect the wishes of your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u17	This is very disappointing, because during the debate I just congratulated the Minister on the way in which she carried out the motions that had been tabled at the VAO. They have consequences, they have to be felt. I had just named BoeCult in Boekel as a fantastic cultural event. I think it should apply properly, for example to a cultural fund. The Minister is actually saying: do not go to the cultural funds anymore, but go to the MPs here in The Hague, because they will finally arrange the subsidy for you. I would like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u18	That's what I'm trying to avoid. That is why I have also said to the authors of the motion that I am not going to subsidise these groups in the BIS but to create a function. I also know that a function such as that for media and culture for younger generations, think of a festival like Cinekid.. is a recurring wish of your Chamber. So as far as that goes, I'm not going to be ice cream for one night. But I agree with Mr Van Veen that the argument can also go another way. That's why I'm holding a mirror in your room. Know what you are doing and know that this will lead to great disappointment for others as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u19	I ask the Chamber once again to give the Minister the opportunity to reply and the people who want to hear the opportunity to listen to that answer. I ask the Members to continue their conversations elsewhere. Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u20	The motion in part No. 173 by Jasper van Dijk, who asks the government to invest 10 million more in culture, I do not recommend, not because I would find additional investments in culture undesirable but because the coverage is inadequate. There is simply no budgetary flexibility. We will have to do everything we can to make ends meet next year. So I'm afraid there's no 10 million. I have said before that I have done everything I can to scrape the 18.5 million. The motion by Mr Keijzer and Mr Monasch to item No. 174, I'll tell you. I also understand the desire to fund other institutions from the funds, but if I add up everything, I note that we had an additional 2.6 million for the festivals. Of these, 8 tonnes would be left with Mr Monasch's motion. If we are going to finance the Dutch Design Week and the Theatre Festival Den Bosch now, there will be 2 tonnes left de facto. We can divide that between all the funds, but that is so limited that it is actually jobless. I would rather be tempted to say to the Chamber: decide that there is no room at all. But that really runs counter to the responsibility and balance that the funds have and should be able to make. As far as I am concerned, the border has really been reached. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u21	Two things. The latter is not right what the Minister says, because the 2.4 million will be spent on festivals, so it is not so that there will be no money left. On the contrary, substantial money is given so that festivals can stay alive. The second is that the Minister's motion in part No. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 172 leaves judgment to the Chamber, does not exist. This motion contains exactly the same considerations as that first motion, so what applies to the motion in part No. 172 that it is possible and technically feasible and therefore the judgment given to the Chamber should therefore apply to the motion in part No. 174.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u22	In that sense, you are right, the motion is technically feasible, so it is possible. Then there really is nothing left: 2 tons that you can distribute across all the funds. Then you might as well abolish the decision-making by the funds, which then has no meaning whatsoever. I note that Mr Monasch's motion, which I referred to, also mentions companies that were mentioned earlier, in June and July. I note that we have had the debate on this for some time now and that the wish has been expressed by the Chamber. I have already said that I am not happy with it in every respect, but that I want to respect the wishes of the Chamber, also as a result of an interruption by Mr Van Veen. You are right: if there were a majority in favour of your motion, the motion would be technically feasible. However, I find it undesirable in the sum total, because then any flexibility to do anything about festivals focused on talent development and other matters has been removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u23	That's just not true. If you spend this money specifically on festivals, there was that 2.6 million meant for it, by the way, it's not that you can't do anything anymore. I think the Minister should be honest about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u24	There will then be no additional resources, when everything has now started. A year ago, we discovered the vulnerabilities in the current system, also through research into white spots. One of the vulnerabilities that emerged was the festivals. Everyone said at that time that it was very important, in the context of talent development and the recruitment of new groups, to give space to new festivals. Now if we divide this up like this, we have... I say this with all appreciation for the Dutch Design Week, where I went last week. It was another fantastic happening. Of course it is very nice that things are going so well there, but it is at the expense of other initiatives that are perhaps just a little less known and deserve more space and perhaps more opportunities to develop. That's a trade-off I make this way. I'll see what the Chamber decides.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-8.u25	We shall be voting on the motions tabled in a moment. I'll ask if you can ring the bell. Then we'll vote in five minutes.
