ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-3.u1	And it's about parcel couriers and not pizza couriers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, a column of parcel delivery men drove in white vans to The Hague. The delivery staff offered a petition to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. The parcel delivery companies are asking the Minister to put an end to the nearest American situation in the parcel sector. Years ago, parcel deliverer was a respectable profession in the free market where companies that deliver packages paid their employees just a normal salary. Somewhere in the past few years things went wrong. Given the growing number of packages that we order and have delivered, you would think that this sector would become a walhalla for deliveryers, because there is more work and more profit to be distributed. But that didn't happen. Large companies such as PostNL started to replace ordinary employees with zzp'ers with the approval of the Tax Administration. Instead of hourly wages, these zzp'ers received piecework. Despite the fact that they are officially entrepreneurs according to the Tax Administration, PostNL imposes their fixed working hours and tells them what to wear and which vans to drive. That does not in any way resemble azzp'er, at least according to the definition used by the Tax Administration itself. And that's not all. PostNL but also other companies that work with zzp'ers unilaterally reduce the rates. As an entrepreneur, you should be able to negotiate, but that is not possible. As a result, a lot of delivery guys can't make ends meet unless they work 12 to 14 hours a day. We're used to that, but for a mailman, it's not normal that he can't see his wife and kids. Everyone loses here. Thezzp'er who simply can't live on the piecework, and the workers at the other parcel companies who thus see themselves priced out of the market by this competition. Nobody wins here. I therefore have a few questions for the Minister. What did he promise the package delivery guys who came to see him yesterday? Is he going to tackle the abuse by the big entrepreneurs, the abuse of the self-employed? Why is it still possible for PostNL to employ them as self-employed? Why doesn't the inspection intervene and why doesn't the IRS intervene?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. I have heard rumors that, although there is no aging, Mrs Vos' birthday appears to be here. Perhaps you'd like to pass on the congratulations, Mr. Chairman. We have been hearing signs of serious abuses in the parcel mail sector for a long time. And that does not fit in with the decent labour market we want in the Netherlands. That is why I want to fight with those parcel delivery guys against bogus constructions and bogus self-employment. We have made great strides in recent times against the false constructions, but we have to do much more about the false self-employment. Firstly, by increasing enforcement opportunities. My colleague Wiebes is talking about this now. Secondly, by examining thezzp'ers in the constructions around them. More is needed for the parcel market, namely specific measures to better help these deliverers. Firstly, I have had the inspection carried out on the sector in broad terms. How are working conditions, working hours and taxes? The inspection has looked at all eight major players and all eight have been given an insufficient response to working conditions. This means that it is an inspection project this year and that we are also going to maintain this year to ensure that this improves. Secondly, last year I appointed an official scout to identify the abuses in the sector. He reported to me. For the summer, I will send the report, accompanied by a cabinet response, to the Chamber. Thirdly, I want to talk to the sector. Not only rules and enforcement are important, but it is also a matter of mentality. The eight major players must improve it: a living wage for the people who do the work, workers as employees, real entrepreneurs as real entrepreneurs and normal agreements on working conditions that apply to everyone. Yesterday was also scanned: are you self-employed? The answer to that was no. At the time when one is an employee, there is the possibility to refer the legal presumption of the contract of employment to the court. If the judge agrees, you're an employee and you're under the protection that all employees have. Soon the Law approach will also apply fakes. That is a fourth possibility where it is very useful to employ workers who are actually engaged in false self-employment. Perhaps they will be supported by others. In this way it becomes clear that there must be a decent labour market. Everyone buys over the Internet. Everyone's having packages delivered. This includes that in the Netherlands we treat the delivery people decently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mrs. Vos, congratulations on your birthday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome many of the answers given by the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. I feel like he's on top of it. I would like to remind you that the Tax Administration and its colleagues could have dealt with this many years ago, for example when SOMO's report was published. Self-employed people have been dealt with before. I mention the self-employed in health care. We talked a lot about that last year. This was so obvious. I don't understand why the IRS had so much trouble with that. However, I await with great interest the scout's report, as well as the actions that the minister is going to take after the report. I have another question. Some of the people who deliver these packages are self-employed with and without staff, zmp'ers andzzp'ers. At that market you see a lot of little ones and a few big ones. The Minister himself speaks of eight giants. This market isn't fair. You have a number of giants who dictate everything, including the price, for the little ones. Those little ones are not allowed to make agreements with the ACM, the supervisor, because they then violate the cartel ban. I ask the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment to talk to the Minister for Economic Affairs about this undesirable situation in entrepreneurial Netherlands, with very large companies and very small companies, which are unable to move because of the current cartel legislation. Is the Minister of SZW prepared to look with the Minister of EZ at the entrepreneurial landscape, especially in this sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-3.u6	Firstly, there is no doubt about it: Mr Wiebes of Finance, like me, is very motivated to fight for a decent labour market and to work on the responsibility, including for the client, when it comes to whether someone is a real self-employed person or whether he is secretly an employee and therefore deserves the protection that an employee has. Secretary of State Wiebes is busy with that and he will speed it up. Secondly, this market is a special market. I certainly want to talk about this with my colleague from Economic Affairs. I don't make any promises about that in advance. We all see that the market is developing rapidly. That's good. It's part of this time, but people have to be able to earn a living wage. I'm gonna talk to the minister of EZ. If I inform the Chamber in response to the scout's report on the abuses in this sector, I will also take the results of that discussion with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-3.u7	I was there yesterday when the parcel delivery guys were standing on the stairs at the minister's. The Minister said that the Law's approach to bogus constructions can help you. But who amazes me? That's a lie, because that law isn't meant to be. The Minister also says it now: first you have to become an employee by going to court and then you can do this. My question to the Minister is very specific: what three measures will he take over the next three months to ensure that these problems are resolved? We've known these problems since 2012 or before. What three measures are being taken over the next three months to solve the problems of parcel delivery?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-3.u8	First of all, the Law approach does of course help false constructions. In the past it was hardly worth calling in the legal presumption of a contract of employment because there was a crooked employment agency in between, but soon the client, including the large company behind it, will also be responsible for the payment to that employee. That is indeed very important. Secondly, the inspection is now under way, following the eight inadequates that have been distributed, to maintain in all these companies: how do they deal with working hours, workload, etc.? Thirdly, I was already talking about new rules in the direction of Mrs Vos to speed up the detection and enforcement of false self-employment. Fourthly, I am talking to this sector because I want to improve, not only through regulation, but also from the sector itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-3.u9	Congratulations, too, for Mrs Vos. I do see that the Minister has plans to improve the position of people who are forced to bezzp'er. Mrs Vos also quite rightly pointed out: it has been clear for a long time that there are people who do have the burdens, but do not have the pleasure of being a social worker. The Minister is now announcing a number of measures. When will they lead to concrete improvements? When will the mail delivery guys really notice that there is an improvement going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-3.u10	The struggle for a decent labour market in the Netherlands requires a massive fight, for which all energy is needed in politics, in society and in the social partners. The pressure is high: the pressure to work with cheaper migrant workers, to work with bogus structures, to enable displacement, to use contracting and payrolling, not as intended, but to hollow out the rewards we normally find in the Netherlands. We now use this turn of events with each other, with the Work and Security Act and with the Wet approach fakes constructions, but we are certainly not there. I very much agree with Mrs Voortman. Appearance of self-employment ruins the image of a lot of cheerful, happy entrepreneurs, of manyzzp'ers. It ruins the labour market for many of their colleagues. It ruins it for companies that want to do it in a decent way. Before the summer there must be proposals about the responsibility of the client. For the summer I would also like to go to the Chamber with our proposals for the package sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you for your answers and thanks for coming to the Chamber.
