ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u1	I would like to welcome everyone, in particular the Prime Minister and the Minister and Secretary of State for Security and Justice. I give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. I have a point of order and that is two-fold. First of all, I would like to repeat a request made yesterday by Mr Pechtold concerning the order of speakers on the part of the cabinet. There are many questions about the rulers of Security and Justice and we would like to speak to them first so that we can discuss their answers with the Prime Minister. Mr Oosting said at the hearing that the discussion reports could be made available if the committee's partners agreed. My second question is therefore whether the Prime Minister's discussion report can be sent to the Chamber. This requires the consent of the interlocutor, in this case the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u3	As far as the first request is concerned, it is good practice for the cabinet to decide who speaks on behalf of the cabinet. However, the cabinet members are here and they have also heard the request. As for your second request, let me take a look at the Prime Minister. Can he say a few words about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u4	Those conversations have taken place in confidence. All participants should be able to assume that these conversations remain confidential. That is all the more important for future investigations. I'm willing to send my interview report to the Chamber, but I'd like to make the agreement that it stays that way. I cannot do that if the reports from civil servants were to be called up as well. I can only do it if that's the end of it, if that's the deal. If that were to result in pressure for official reports to be sent to the Chamber, I myself had no access to them, that would break the confidentiality of those talks. I can't do that. But I can send my report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u5	Confidentially, that's what I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u6	No, that can be public.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u7	Okay. Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u8	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his generosity. My request concerned this discussion report. I cannot speak on behalf of my fellow Members, nor do I know how the debate continues. So I can't promise that on behalf of everything and everyone. My request concerned this discussion report, and I think it would be a good thing if it were to go to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u9	I have to say it loudly. I'm willing to share my interview report publicly with the Chamber. That can be sent now. Then I say that I assume that's the end of it. Again, it can be interpreted as pressure on officials to make their reports public as well. I think that is really very undesirable, because in future they will be unsafe in discussions with committees of this kind. If we agree to leave it with my interview report, I agree. I am glad that Mr Segers agrees. Let me say for my part that I will make it public, but the cabinet will leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u10	The chairman of the committee said that he underlined this and I would like to stress that it is appropriate for everyone to give their consent or not. In this case, the Prime Minister gives permission to do so. If others don't give permission, it's up to them. The possibility of making that decision lies with them and only with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u11	Yes, but what I would like to draw attention to is the pressure that others might experience if the Prime Minister made his interview report public, namely that they should do the same. I do not want to put that pressure on the other respondents, the other interlocutors of the Oosting Committee. That is why I am making this point. No objection on my part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u12	Thank you. I also see Mr Pechtold walking to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u13	I believe that we must stick to what Oosting says and to the agreement that the status of confidentiality of these reports falls under the constitutional status of duty of information to the Chamber. The Prime Minister shakes 'no', but if he takes advice, he will hear 'yes', because I have studied this in advance. If, in future, it appears today that other discussion reports, for example from Mr Teeven, can also be sent to the Chamber with his consent, I believe that this should be possible, bearing in mind what Mr Oosting has said about this. I do not think that the status of civil servants is necessary at this stage, but if this is to be followed up in a parliamentary way today or later, we cannot say today that it will never come up again, because it could be done in a follow-up process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u14	It listens closely, because I realize that if I make my conversation report public, others might experience the pressure to do so. What Mr Pechtold is saying is true: in the end people must give individual consent to it. Moreover, I do not think it is as Mr Pechtold says and that this would be part of the Court's information right. It is protocold, for example, in my lecture, in the research assignment to Oosting and in the accompanying protocol that these talks remain confidential. Again, I share my discussion report with the Chamber, thus in no way putting pressure on others to do so. That is my point and I ask the Chamber to respect it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u15	I do not think we need to make a deal in the spirit of this debate on what should and should not be done with other interview reports. The question of the Chamber is limited to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister said yes to this, but said that this is not a precedent in relation to other requests. I think that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u16	I had that impression too, so I suggest we start the debate. Then during the debate... Mr. Pechtold?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u17	I would like to hear a slightly clearer answer to Mr Segers' question, also on my behalf, as to whether the order in which the answer was given in the first period will be as requested by the Chamber, namely first the Minister and Secretary of State and then the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u18	I'd like to listen to the Chamber very carefully first. I hear this request very clearly. In principle, there is no objection to this either. As a cabinet, we are going to consider in the pause all the questions that have been asked and what we find from our perspective a logical order of answer. In this, of course, the view of parts of the Chamber is very important, saying: let the Minister and the Secretary of State begin. I shall come back to this once and for all to the Government's response. Once again, we will make that request very difficult, but I think it is logical that we should also include the type of intervention that is carried out from the Chamber and which is a logical order from the cabinet. Of course, it is very important in this respect that the wishes of the Chamber are taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u19	Good. Finally, Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u20	Well, I guess I'll just... Heavy reasons must lead to something else. I will emphasise why I consider it important. The Prime Minister has not been at the forefront of truth in this matter in the last two years. Written questions have been asked from the Chamber. In the meantime, we haven't had much time. I would very much like to speak first with the other rulers, because it is also a build-up of facts which, for political conclusions, must be explored with both rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u21	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union. Speaking time is six minutes per group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u22	Mr. Chairman. What this debate is about is the prestige of politics, the credibility of government and trust in the rule of law. When I read the report of the Oosting Committee, I was reminded of the philosopher and church father Augustine, who wondered what difference there was between the government and a robber gang if the state is not subject to the law. It is the democratic rule of law that makes the difference between a civilisation and a banana republic, and that democratic rule of law is at stake in the deal concluded with Cees H. and the way in which it dealt with the truth and with the Chamber afterwards. How can we ask citizens to comply with the law and to complete their tax returns in truth if the impression is created that politicians can handle the truth creatively, keep each other's hands above their heads and that people of justice are above the law? As a chamber, we can only continue to work with confidence in the cabinet if we are properly and fully informed. If that does not happen, that error must be corrected immediately. There is doubt about all that, and that doubt is devastating. With the report of the Oosting Committee, facts are on the table. The first fact is that the Chamber has been misinformed and incompletely informed. I refer to the different elements. Two ministers mentioned the wrong amount of settlement. Then Secretary of State Teeven at RTL Late Night says Minister Opstelten would have informed the Chamber well, while calling Director General Roes a very different amount than Minister Opstelten mentioned in the Chamber. If the Chamber is then given confidential access to the BOOM opinion on the deal with Cees H., crucial parts of it have been blacked out. That was unnecessary, Oosting says. Then there's the chance to do good research and find out the truth. However, Minister Opstelten deliberately opts for a short and flawed investigation, in which the researcher is not allowed to talk to Secretary of State Teeven. Secretary of State Teeven has a reminder that the amount is much higher than the amount of 2 million mentioned by Minister Opstelten. However, the Minister and the Secretary of State decided together to conclude that Mr Teeven had insufficient factual memories. Finally, if Nieuwsuur is about to report the correct amount, two VVD room members are cooperating in a press release stating that the information of Nieuwsuur is incorrect. However, that information was correct and the information that pointed to it was also available. My question to the rulers of Security and Justice is as follows. Why did they consider it their task, as the government's auditor, to strengthen that government's line of defence, so they themselves say to the Chamber to which they themselves belonged? Why did they write that Nieuwsuur had incorrect information? Then I come to the second fact. The deal with Cees H. didn't work out. The Committee writes that the settlement could not pass the test of criticism according to content, formation and resolution. There, too, I shall mention the elements. There was no permission from the College of Attorney General for the amount transferred to Cees H. No package deal with pardon should have been made. The IRS should have been informed. The amount was not proportional: the state jumped out badly. And the alleged consideration that former prosecutor Vrakk is talking about again today, and what the Prime Minister speculated on Friday, according to Oosting, does not change that. If there's a secret deal, it shouldn't have been closed and it wasn't authorized. The Oosting Committee has offered Mr Teeven to inform them of this confidentially, but he has not made use of it. Then it ends once, Oosting said yesterday. There's no deal under the deal. In this light, it is extremely worrying what happened on Friday at the Prime Minister's press conference. There is a report that should at last have provided clarity, that should have driven away the fog and the smoke, so that we could have put an end to it, and then the Prime Minister put the smoke machine back on for 40 minutes. It's one of two: either Oosting is right, the deal isn't right, and there's no deal under the deal, or the prime minister knows more, but then there's really got to be the bottom stone. We can't end this case until the whole truth is on the table and all the smoke and fog is gone. If the smoke machine goes back on, it won't work. I must warn you that if the Prime Minister does not now give full openness, the Chamber will have to pursue it with a brief parliamentary inquiry or a parliamentary questioning under oath itself. For the Christian Union Group, the crucial question to the cabinet is: what prevails in this long-term issue? Are those political positions? Is that a reputation for crime fighters? Or is that the truth, informing the Chamber correctly and upholding the rule of law? For the Christian Union Group, the answer to that question is all-enabled. This is the debate of truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u23	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Oosting Committee for its work. The thorough and thorough report gives rise to today's debate. But what is the crux of this debate? Is that what the Oosting Committee took last week's lid off the VVD deafening pot off the Bitch Deal? Is that the conclusion that this deal with a drug criminal should never have taken place, that instead of picking a criminal, a criminal has been made richer? Is that the government's involvement in avoiding tax and money laundering or the suggestive and without any evidence of any suggestions on Cees H.'s consideration? The question arises as to why the Prime Minister did so. Or is the crux that we are talking about a case where everything is done to keep the truth under wraps, that questions from the House of Representatives were not answered or not answered sufficiently, that internal research that was not conducted independently and researchers were not allowed to speak to the crucial persons? Or is it the fact that instead of controlling the government, people's representatives help and advise that same government in the ministry to put the defence in order towards the Chamber? How do the two rulers look back on that? We are talking to a Prime Minister who sees everything and hears everything and who has not subsequently served openness and democracy, but who has helped to withhold information that was, could or should have been, much earlier. It seems that this Prime Minister has recently been more busy protecting his partymates than guarding the rule of law. It's hard to blame him for that. Two directors quit in March this year. That was inevitable. According to the Prime Minister, this happened because information that was previously said not to be there was. According to others, this deal didn't work out right from the start and in its aftermath it was purposely working to hide the truth about it. The Prime Minister has taken his typical nonchalant attitude all along: he knew nothing or he didn't want to know anything. The question is which one is worse. In this light, how does the Prime Minister look at his statement 'I am General Affairs and not of all matters' or 'probably it was a good deal; not that I have read anything, let alone have proof' or that the crucial report of the Director General and Mr Teeven's conversation is merely calling a cat bell and keeping it under review? How does the Prime Minister look at the fact that two MPs of his own party were involved in forming a defense of Minister Opstelten, when it was already clear that that defense could not stand? Is it credible that the Prime Minister has never asked Mr Teeven what the facts really are in the past two years? How credible is it that the Prime Minister says until Friday that the settlement was allowed, even after the Oosting Committee cut 431 pages of this deal and talks about money laundering and tax evasion? The cabinet says it accepts the conclusions. My question to the Prime Minister is: what does that mean? Is it credible that the Prime Minister is currently under attack by two members of his own party? How credible is it that the Prime Minister says he doesn't choose to ask Mr. Bitch about his activities as a prosecutor? Isn't the Prime Minister the first person to investigate matters in previous positions, both when the cabinet was in office and during the cabinet period? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Finally. Perhaps the crux of this debate is that all this has seriously undermined the credibility and confidence of the people in the cabinet, in politics and, above all, in the rule of law. The Prime Minister must be very concerned about that. It is up to him to make a convincing start today to restore this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u24	Mr. Chairman. The Ministry of Security and Justice is the guardian of the rule of law. It is the place where crime is fought, where the truth comes out and where surgery is carried out within the limits of the law. If there's no checks-and-balances there, it's gonna go wrong. Cees H. paid 750,000 guilders, was allowed to launder millions and was released from prison. That was absolutely not a super deal, as the Prime Minister suggested to the Netherlands on Friday, unless the Prime Minister knows more and there was more going on, but that must be made clear in some way. There must be checks-and-balances. The Oosting Committee's report also puts the finger on another sore spot, namely the information after 2014. Successive VVDs pointed to the official apparatus as the source of the evil of misinformation. But what does it turn out to be? Not the official apparatus failed, but the political VVD summit. From the moment Minister Opstelden came up with an amount of 1.25 million, the VVD machine had only one goal: to keep setups going. Everything had to give way to that, if necessary the truth. 'Cause what turns out to be? Kees Vendrik was dismissed as an independent researcher and replaced by a friend of the minister, who then was not allowed to talk to Secretary of State Teeven. A high-ranking official did speak with Teeven, but the report was still modified by the Secretary of State and accepted with a initial. In fact, it was repeated as official documents in the folders that the Minister was given to the Chamber, as we read in the questions. What kind of personal opinion of a civil servant? It was just an official piece that worked from the beginning. During his interview with the senior official, Secretary of State Teeven mentioned an amount of approximately 4,8 million guilders, consisting of interest on interest. However, nothing has ever been done with that science. Officials also arrived very early at a sum of about 5 million guilders, but nothing was reported to the Chamber, until Nieuwsuur showed the exact figures on 4 March 2015. Then, just before the elections that followed, all the alarm bells started ringing at the VVD. The MPs Van der Steur and Dijkhoff, the second campaign manager of the VVD and MP, went to the department to take on the task of the information department. That was not to ensure that the Chamber they were members of was as well informed as possible, but rather to create fog. They knew what traces might lead to the truth. Fred Teeven was there, as we read in the answer to question 126, and again mentioned that amount of 4.8 million guilders. The MPs sitting there knew damn well that News hours were on their way to the truth, but the Chamber didn't need to know that. Protecting the VVD interest was more than informing the Chamber. The idea was apparently: what they do not know cannot harm us. But it was not to benefit; the minister resigned. And as if all this weren't bad enough, the same people, Van der Steur and Dijkhoff, sat in the saddle a week later themselves at the Ministry of Security and Justice. Minister Van der Steur said last week that it was normal what they had done at the ministry. That's not true! Especially if you sit at that ministry a week later as a minister and then keep quiet about what you've had a part in. Thus, the new minister became part of the whole misinformation, which had been going on for a year. He held back that he knew from the beginning and on 4 March he must have been well informed that Nieuwsuur was definitely heading in the direction of the truth. He also knew that what Minister Opstelten said from the beginning was completely incorrect. I ask the Minister to finally acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u25	I recognize Mr Buma's description of the change in roles between two VVD chamber members who subsequently became Minister and Secretary of State. However, I also ask for a moment of self-reflection. In recent years, how has the CDA reacted to the way in which communication between the CDA group and the cabinet went?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u26	That is a fair question from Mr Klein. Of course, I immediately consulted myself. The CDA must realize that it has ruled for years and had ministers. But crossing the border by going to a department as a Member of Parliament and writing along to, for example, a press release intended not to bring the truth to the Chamber: no way! No way. It's crossing a line. Maybe that's why I'm so angry about it. Minister van der Steur says we all do that sometimes. That's not true. If the coalition has made a deal, it is absolutely true that the coalition partners want to know in advance whether the letter is in line with what they have agreed. It happens. So if the Minister asks if there are any contacts between MPs and ministers, the answer is yes. I'm sure that's what's happening now. But rewriting the truth by a MP who is a campaign leader, because the truth doesn't come out before the elections, that's not possible. Mr Klein cannot accept that and neither can I.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u27	You're right, and you shouldn't accept that. However, we await the answer of the cabinet. The most important thing is to what extent this country is characterised by backroom politics, to which the CDA has been actively involved for many years, even when the group was not in the cabinet. Look at the discussions we've had in recent times. In doing so, the CDA became informally involved in everything. To what extent wasn't that self-reflection there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u28	I think I started with a firm form of self-reflection, which Mr Klein rightly asked for. Indeed, the CDA must also consult itself after it has ruled for years. The CDA believes that his role in parliament is now one of opposition. So, we shouldn't be grooming, we should check. Even now, I'm willing to speak to a cabinet. I don't run away from that for a second. In fact, I think I could greatly frustrate the process by not doing what the CDA is doing right now. One thing the CDA does not do: as MP go to a minister to rewrite the truth and ensure that the wrong information from the previous year continues to come to the Chamber instead of pulling the truth from the ministry. That's what happened here. There's only one thing that's happened here, and that's protecting the VVD interest. Not a single moment has been thought of the truth. And what happens to those two people who write the press release? A week later, they're Secretary of State and Secretary of State and they're silent. That's not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u29	I suggest that you continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u30	Mr. Chairman. I come to the role of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister stood by and looked at it. Or was it more? Didn't he know or didn't he want to know? On Friday, during the press conference, the Prime Minister said that there had been no talk of amounts. The written answer contains a phrase that makes me suspicious: no specific amounts were mentioned in the telephone conversation between Teeven and the Prime Minister. There's no such difference. Either you mention an amount or about an amount, or you don't. I want to know exactly about the Prime Minister. Weren't they specific amounts? Then what were they? Why didn't he see any reason to ask? Suppose Bitch said it's about an amount and interest. Doesn't the Prime Minister ask: what exactly do you mean? Or does he just drop it because he doesn't want to know? Conscious ignorance is as bad as knowing but not informing the Chamber. Would Fred Teeven really be like that? I don't think he warned his political leader once between 2014 and 2015 that it wasn't right with those amounts, that there was more and that the amount he called the Director General was right? I would like an answer from the Prime Minister. Didn't the Prime Minister himself see what incredible risk he took when he named those two men who were part of the problem at the Ministry of Justice, then very nicely as Minister and Secretary of State? You'll have a debate like this. How naive can you be? I'm rounding up. The Prime Minister of the Netherlands is not the keeper of the VVD interest, not the keeper of Fred Teeven, nor of Ivo Opstelten. He is not the keeper of Ard van der Steur or Klaas Dijkhoff. A good Prime Minister is the guardian of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u31	Madam President. What a tough talk Mr. Rutte had in the election: he was going to crack down on crime, something was really going to change. And on the Justice Department, two real criminals came: Bitches and Bitches. Everything was gonna be different. No more mister nice guy. But how did it change? What a deception. Oh, my God, this is so fucked up. Both regiments have fallen massively into the basket. What are the facts? The fact is that Mr Teeven made a secret deal in the year 2000 to the detriment of the Dutch State and the taxpayer. A deal with a drug lord convicted of cocaine trafficking, hash traffic and an escape attempt with Semtex, which means heavy explosives. And this top criminal was pardoned, or absolved of part of his sentence, and as much as 4.7 million guilders were deposited into his bank account outside the Tax Office. That amount was kept secret, put under the carpet, it was lied about, the receipt was untraceable for years. The Netherlands was deceived massively, but if the ordinary Dutchman gives up €100 too little in taxes, he goes to the highest tree. If the ordinary Dutchman drives a few kilometers too fast behind the wheel, he receives a pronto fine. But criminals are therefore subject to very different rules. They're getting millions thrown into their laps. We all remember the election posters of the Prime Minister's party. With big letters, it said, "More punishment and less understanding for criminals." In practice this means: more money and more understanding for criminals; you can collect your millions from Fred Teeven. There is only about one Dutchman who believes in the false promises of Mark Rutte and that is Cees H. Rutte promised every Dutchman €1,000 and we all know they didn't come. However, one person did not get €1,000; he received no less than €5 million and also tax-free. And what's the message? The message is: crime pays. Now, in the aftermath of the cabinet, while all ministers crave the final signal as crippled fighters, we see the last remaining credibility of the VVD disappear. Because it's a fact, I'm not making it up, that it's all VVD guys who set up this deal. The two District Attorneys who handed over Cees H.'s Postal Code guy are now both VVD politicians. Last week, the Prime Minister said, "Fred Bitches need you to catch the bastards." But that too is different. Fred Teeven is what you need to get assholes to take millions. That's the truth. They are also all VVDs who, as minister, misinformed the Chamber, covered up information about this deal, shoved it under the carpet, or even literally chased the shredder by the paper chipper. Think about it: former ministers Korthals and Opstellen misinformed the Chamber. Unpleasant passages were painted away, blackened into pieces that were sent confidentially to the Chamber. A discussion report went into a safe and was not allowed to be shared with parliament. The VVD spokesperson Justice Van der Steur and the VVD campaign leader Dijkhoff helped former minister Opstelden write a press release in which the facts were obscured and the truth was violated. And a little later, they sat on the chairs of the rulers themselves. The former Chamber Chairman chased a letter from a whistleblower through the shredder and texted Halbe Zijlstra: storm in a glass of water, no action needed. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, I must of course say that the text was sent to H.Z., because that was in the play. And then there's the other minister, Mrs. Schippers, who came up with a nice conspiracy theory, because everyone would have done it, of course, except for the VVD. What exactly did our Prime Minister do? What did the man who said about him one day before the resignation of Minister Opstelten say: Ivo is on top of it; he is fully focused? What did the guy who said it was a great deal and that it was all right? What did the man who told you that the conversation report edited and even initialled by Bitch was nothing more than a confidential personal note? The man who now babbles inimitable lyrics, like: I hadn't read the piece, but I had seen it. The man of whom 51% of the Dutch now think that he should take up his duties, that he should quit. That man, Prime Minister Rutte, looked away. She didn't ask. He clearly didn't want to know the truth and showed a total lack of direction and leadership. It's like a big mob family, with Mark Rutte in the role of Don Corleone. He is the godfather, he covers everything his VVD clan does with the cloak of love and looks the other way as much as possible, if possible. He doesn't really want to see it all. And in the meantime, while the Prime Minister looks the other way, more and more VVDs find a horse's head in their bed. Bitches, Bitches, Van Miltenburg. Who's next? Mr. Prime Minister, no one, no one believes you anymore. No one wants you anymore. No one trusts you anymore. More than half the Dutch want you to stop. You are only trying to save your own ass, while the Netherlands needs a prime minister who restores confidence in politics and defends the interests of the Dutch. That is why I will end with the only question I have: Mr Rutte, when will you quit?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u32	Mr. Chairman. How harmful are the Bitch Deal and the way in which the Cabinet has informed the Chamber... I quote: 'I regret to note that it is not conducive to the confidence of citizens in what is happening in The Hague. It is a pity that we have to draw this hard conclusion." These are the words of Commission President Oosting. I thank him and his committee for the great work that has been done. We are all responsible here for the prestige of politics. As an executive auditor, the Chamber should be able to rely on the government to inform Parliament generously, carefully and in good time. And you, Prime Minister, are in charge of the executive. But what kind of Prime Minister was at the press conference last Friday? I got the annoying feeling that I saw a party leader who was still talking straight, which is crooked. I don't like it. There is still a lack of information for Parliament and the role of the Prime Minister. Let us use this debate to remove that fog. I would like a precise answer to the following questions. 1. Has the Prime Minister ever wondered in this case: this is not going well, should I not even act, will the Chamber be properly informed? Or didn't the Prime Minister want to know exactly what was going on? 2. Didn't the Prime Minister think once, for example, after the broadcast of Nieuwsuur in March 2014, whether he should not talk to Mr Teeven about his then role as a prosecutor, and whether he should not even spar with Opstelten about his position in the debate in the same month? 3. How does the Prime Minister assess the fact that Opstelten did not appoint an external investigator but ordered Mr Van Brummen to investigate against the advice of his officials and the Attorney General? 4. How does the Prime Minister judge that Mr Van Brummen was not allowed to question Mr Teeven himself? 5. Isn't it strange that Mr Roes didn't make a formal report on the conversation he had with Teeven on behalf of Opstelten? 6. Isn't it strange that Van Brummen was given two weeks for his research, but that the minister himself took almost four weeks to change the concept four times? And does he share the view of the Oosting Committee that this had not happened to an independent investigator? 7. The Oosting Committee noted, and did so yesterday in the hearing, that Mr Teeven had an excellent memory, I might add. Why was it so quickly decided in March 2014 that Teeven's memories were insufficient, while officials had already been counting in April 2014 and were also about 4.8 million? They themselves accounted for 4.9 million. 8. In the context of the separation of powers, did the Prime Minister and current rulers of Justice think it wise that the VVD Chamber members would advise on the content of a press release at the Ministry of Justice on 4 March 2015? 9. On 4 March Dijkhoff received information from Roes's interview report with Teeven. The written answers show that Dijkhoff asked questions about that report. What questions were those? What quotes did he hear? Was it about the amount? Did Mr Dijkhoff, who was there as campaign manager of the VVD, then have any contact with party leader Rutte, or with anyone else from the VVD summit? And did he share his information with them? 10. Why was the Prime Minister only interested in the answer to the question of whether he was still behind the Van Brummen report when he called Fred Teeven on the evening of the Newshour broadcast of 4 March 2015? I really can't imagine that you wouldn't ask at such a time. 11. On 6 March, the Prime Minister asked his colleague Dijsselbloem and margin of the Council of Ministers to count. Why did he ask? What was the real occasion? After that, the Prime Minister will report the outcome of that calculation to the Council of Ministers, but will not be discussed further. Why not? Did he or his colleagues get the impression that Nieuwsuur was probably right after all with that amount of 4.7 million? 12. Why was the Prime Minister going to speculate last Friday about any consideration? Oosting said yesterday at the hearing: it will be done once; the deal cannot pass the test of criticism, either on content or on completion and settlement. 13. Does the Prime Minister still support the actions of District Attorney Bitches? You need people like Fred to catch the bastards, the Prime Minister said on Friday. At the same time, the cabinet shares Oosting's conclusion that it was not a fair deal and accepts its recommendations. 14. All things considered, what lessons did the Prime Minister take? There will be many more questions later, when we have the debate with the Prime Minister, which requires a secure answer, because this is where credibility is at stake, not just from this Prime Minister, not only from the rulers of justice, not only from the cabinet, but from the whole policy. We are not content with less than the truth today. I'll come to a conclusion. The Prime Minister said last Friday: surgery passed, patient died. My simple question is: what operation is the Prime Minister talking about here? Everyone seemed to do their best not to reveal the truth. With me, it breaks the image of a political money laundering operation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u33	Mr. Chairman. For the convenience of Minister Van der Steur, I have already listed the questions I have just announced to him in response to the questions he has answered. He can use it for his first term. I'll give them to him on this one. I would also like to add my thanks to the Oosting Committee. It is, of course, serious that it was necessary to come this far, but nevertheless very much thanks for the thorough work that has been done. It's a matter of trust. That was what the Minister of Security and Justice held for the Chamber in 2014. It was a matter of trust. The Chamber had to trust the cabinet that everything had gone well around the deal with drug criminal Cees H. Exactly that trust has been damaged by an accumulation of incorrect and withheld information. If only the Chamber had been a little less confident. Two VVD leaders on Security and Justice, together with the Prime Minister, should be the guardians of the rule of law, but one by one and all together they have shunned the rule of law and democracy. It's an embarrassing display. The in-depth report of the Oosting Committee rightly strongly condemns the failure of the cabinet and, above all, its failure to do so. Intimately, Oosting shows how careless the Rutte cabinet has been with the foundations of our rule of law and democracy. The drug-criminal Cees H. deal sucks. Oosting cannot put it more clearly: the deal cannot pass the test of criticism. The Amsterdam District Attorney Fred Teeven made a deal with a top criminal with the tough lessons of the IRT affair and the Kalsbeek Committee from this Chamber. A deal that hardly anyone understands why the state would want to close. Why do you give 4.7 million guilders tax-free in exchange for seven tons? He was pardoned, he was allowed to walk out the gate of the most secure prison in the Netherlands, while still serving a sentence; 2,500 of the 5,500 days that had been imposed on him. Then I am not even talking about the house in Belgium, his boat, his wife's jewels: all returned without a hitch. A criminal with millions of bacon: the law picks them more like the operation bacon they have. Bake them instead of picking them. And yet, Bitch keeps defending the deal. He said when he resigned: that deal is nothing wrong, that happened for the people and country. Earlier he said: you know what it is, you don't know everything and I know everything, so maybe that will come up again and then you'll understand. And then there is the Prime Minister, who, despite the conclusions of the Oosting Committee, did not say "mea culpa" in a humble manner, but that the deal was allowed. On the simple question of how much the top criminal got from Teeven, a cover-up was created. We see a party, the VVD, which has become so right in its own belief that an army of its own politicians, up to and including the Prime Minister, was sucked into the swamp and with the greatest possible certainty has held false information to the Chamber. If truth had been found from the outset, if the foundations of the rule of law had not been subordinated to party interests, the Prime Minister could have prevented this political swamp. Political swamp, not my words, but Oosting's. Because with the Oosting report in hand, the many statements made by the VVD main players are bizarre. Minister Opstelten, who, to the end, maintained that it was 2 million guilders. He said: I have informed the Chamber extremely precisely; I have, of course, checked everything I have said again and what the facts and documents I have at my disposal are. Then the Prime Minister who said about Opstelten said: I have contact with him every day and I have every confidence, Ivo is on top of it, full focus, day and night. And when the Chamber said, "Ask Secretary of State Teeven, it was his deal, wasn't it?', The Court was told: Bitch does not have sufficient memories of the actual financial settlement. To hear Bitches say in the media: Ivo deliberately chose not to use my memories. Constant fog from the cabinet, while the amount popped up everywhere. News: 5 to 6. In Nieuwsuur: 4.7. By the lawyers: 5 to 6. Senator Swagerman, VVD: 5 to 6. The calculation of officials: 4.9. The memories of Bitches: 4.8. Nowhere, anywhere, anywhere, 4.7 or more. But nothing about that. No amount in the press release in question. It states: the claim that the Minister misinformed the House of Representatives about the settlement with Cees H. is incorrect. That was the press release to which the then MPs Van der Steur and Dijkhoff, who are now the boss themselves, wrote. The infamous interview report, in which the then Secretary of State simply mentioned the amount, was kept away from the Prime Minister despite pressure from the Chamber. The Prime Minister said that there is no record of a conversation with the DG and the Secretary of State; there are only personal notes and I find it complicated to make them public. A day later, however, the Prime Minister at Pauw said: I know there is a report; I have seen it, but I cannot say what it says and whether there is a sum in it. Last Friday he said: I had seen it, but I didn't read it, because I didn't have time for it. Oosting is quite clear: it was a political balance, but there was no reason why that report could not be sent to the Chamber. That doesn't sound like a prime minister trying to get the facts on the table. Then there were the statements of Minister Schippers, who saw a conspiracy. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Swagerman said the room plays shameless games. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The former VVD-Room Chairman carried out a whistle-blower letter through the shredder and still thinks she has acted carefully. All these quotes from a battalion to VVDs are staggering for my group. State-law rules have been set aside. Political morality isn't the first thing on the retina. It seems that the VVD has tried to use its position as a government party as freely as possible. This political behaviour contributes to a further erosion of confidence in politics. That trend has gone far enough now. Article 68 of the Constitution lays down the obligation to provide information to this Parliament. This duty is not an opportunity policy, it is the anchoring of our parliamentary democracy. That is why I ask the Prime Minister: why do you not try to do it today simply with the truth?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u34	Mr. Chairman. If everything had been properly investigated right away, we wouldn't have gotten into this political swamp. Mr Oosting spoke at the hearing yesterday. In my view, this is at the heart of the issue we are discussing today. I would like to thank the Oosting Committee for the clear conclusions and recommendations. The conclusions are firm. The 2000 deal is flawed, according to the committee. When the discussion on this deal started in 2014 and 2015, the Minister of Security and Justice did not respond adequately under the responsibility of the then Minister for Security and Justice. There was a mix of insufficient awareness of problems, inadequate direction, inadequate research and poor archiving. As a result, the Chamber was subsequently informed incompletely and incorrectly. No matter how you turn it or turn it, there has been a lot of damage because it has not previously been thoroughly identified how the fork was in the stem. That gnaws at the confidence that the Chamber should be able to say that the information to the Chamber is just right. The active intelligence obligation of Article 68 of the Constitution is a cornerstone of our parliamentary democracy. In order to do this justice, it is essential that the provision of information is in order. This calls for rulers who really want to know what is going on; otherwise an atmosphere of "what does not know, what does not care." Such an ostrich attitude does not tolerate the ministerial responsibility. The fog around the deal, the lack of openness and the cramped defense have ultimately done the most harm. Honestly, for a fair assessment of the deal itself, it is good to be aware of the time when it was closed: it was the pioneer phase of picking them legislation. There were still a lot of clamps and feet to be removed. It is too easy, with all the wisdom of today's crime fighters of the past, who have worked with heart and soul for a safer Netherlands, to slay mercilessly. The rule of law that the SGP stands for is one in which the government abides by the rules, but in which especially those who do evil, the criminals, have to fear, as Paul says. The at least clumsy handling of the later questions about the deal has led to the spotlight being all the more focused on what went wrong with the deal. Doesn't a hedgehog culture always play a role in Security and Justice: take a closed attitude and set up the spines in the event of imminent danger? I have a specific question for the current rulers of Security and Justice about the particular role they have played in the aftermath of the deal. Earlier this year, in their role as MPs, they were involved in preparing a letter to the Chamber about the deal. It is precisely in this matter that the question arises whether they are responding to the question of 'what are we telling the Chamber'. should not have been more cautious. Healthy dualism has never made anyone worse. I'd like to hear their reaction to this. The SGP also makes critical comments on the Prime Minister's action on this issue. The Prime Minister said he was Minister of General Affairs and not of all matters. That's right. But he knows better than anyone that it is precisely his job to promote the unity of government policy in the political, sensitive, transparent and alert response to incidents. This is a very general matter. The Prime Minister has also given contradictory signals by embracing, on the one hand, the conclusions of the Oosting Committee, but, on the other hand, serious doubts about the findings. That can't be true at the same time, can it? We really need more clarity here. Before this debate, I have looked into it a little bit, but the latest version of the Van Dale Van Dale still contains the word 'penalty rug'. It refers to a quote by Abraham Kuyper from a Parliamentary debate in 1910: "The penitentiary does not dissipate the man." My core question to the Prime Minister today is whether there is still a penitentiary in his political wardrobe. Is he prepared to take this to heart today? In other words, does he agree with the SGP that, in the light of the conclusions of the Oosting Committee, it is appropriate to recognise that much has gone wrong and that from that point of view everything is being done to prevent repetition? I'm rounding up. I very much hope that this debate will help to regain trust that has been violated. Because when you ask a citizen, who is a little bit further away from it, how he looks at what's going on now, the first picture is: it's actually a bit of a mess. That doesn't help confidence in politics. That's a bad thing. I therefore hope that confidence can be regained: trust that there will be a professional response to incidents, trust that mistakes will be learned, trust that the information provided to the Chamber will be just right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u35	Mr. Chairman. The bitch deal has the appearance of one big cover-up. The truth seems to have to be kept secret by politicians from VVD-house, just so they don't lose their power. Fifteen years ago, the D.A. made a deal with a drug lord. Many millions of criminal money were laundered. The Oosting Committee was right to say that this deal was not a good one. But Prime Minister Rutte said there was nothing wrong with it. The credibility of this Prime Minister has fallen considerably. Former Minister Opstelten systematically misplaced the House of Representatives. Crucial information was wiped out and an essential call report disappeared in a safe. His resignation, as well as the resignation of the President of the Chamber, was therefore very justified. However, that is not the end of the matter. This raises the question of whether the Prime Minister has properly informed the Chamber. It seems very likely that he was familiar with the 4.8 million guilders during the previous debate. Has the Prime Minister read the interview report, including the amount mentioned, but deliberately withheld it? Why was it dismissed as a cat bell? And why was there not enough time to properly assess the document? I'd like an explanation. It also seems very unlikely that the exact amount was not mentioned during the telephone conversation with then Secretary of State, Bitches. For example, it was discussed that it was a basic amount plus interest. Why didn't the Prime Minister go through with it? It is strange that the current directors Van der Steur and Dijkhoff were not heard by the committee. As a Member of Parliament, they intervened in the misleading press release and knew of the 4.8 million guilders. Their role in this shady affair is also extremely painful. Today, Rutte, Van der Steur and Dijkhoff have to answer. The reliability of the cabinet has been compromised. The majority of Dutch people are not even happy with this Prime Minister anymore. The Netherlands deserves better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u36	Mr. Chairman. I have, of course, read the report of the Oosting Committee with interest and I also thank the committee for the great work it has done. It is a critical report, which draws clear and firm conclusions. The VVD agrees with the conclusions and recommendations made by the committee. A lot's gone wrong. I too was shocked by the accumulation of things that did not go well 15 years ago, for example in the way in which the process of approval was carried out in the Public Prosecutor's Office. Or not informing the IRS. Or this cabinet period, for example in terms of how the Ministry of Security and Justice responded to Nieuwsuur's broadcasts in 2014 and 2015, in which cases were not made sufficiently transparent. And the way in which the research was organised by Mr Brummen, where independence was not sufficiently guaranteed. And also the issue of the anonymous letter in our own Lower House. As a result, two directors and the President of our Chamber have drawn their conclusions and taken their responsibilities. When you read the report, it's understandable. I respect their decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u37	Let me say that I think it is important that the chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats begins by embracing all the conclusions of the Oosting report. I think that's appropriate, but I appreciate it, too. But he also mentions a number of points that have gone wrong. Yesterday he also used a different term on the radio: "screwed under the carpet." He literally said: "If you look at what is now coming forward, then the necessary has been put under the carpet. That is a fact and there is no denying it." Can Mr Zijlstra tell me what he thinks about all being put under the carpet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u38	If you look at the whole reaction structure as a result of the broadcasts of Newsuur, you can see that information has been wiped out. You will see the BOOM report in the report of the Oosting Committee. There are passages in it which I believe would have helped if they had immediately been given in full to the Chamber. Around sums, the whole conversational notes thing, information has not been communicated to the Chamber. I can't make that prettier than it is, I said what I said, and that's what I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u39	I think it is very clear and I share Mr Zijlstra's opinion, but even last week, read the answers of the two rulers, see the Prime Minister's reaction, it is still being brought to us as coincidences, imperfections, things that were not available; not the duty to ask. Like me, you actually qualify the same things as follows: more could have happened actively; they were actively placed under the carpet. I think it's a firm conclusion myself, but I'll share it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u40	There is no reason why directors have resigned. In the light of the report, that is understandable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u41	The list of shortcomings mentioned by Mr Zijlstra also included the press release issued by the Ministry following the broadcast of Nieuwsuur. Two members of the VVD Group have been involved. How does he look back on that contribution and involvement himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u42	That is one of the questions I will have for both Members in a moment, but I can serve you in advance. When I read the answer to the written questions put by the Chamber, it is clear from my mind that the Members of Parliament, who were present at the time, were there to prevent the Minister from possibly informing the Chamber wrongly. The press release is a response to Newsuur's announcement that it amounts to 4.7 million euros. That amount became known. That Members of Parliament at such a time advise a ruler with the words 'it is not wise to deny that, given that you do not know', I find, frankly, a sensible opinion. That is not a question of misinformed the Chamber. It is a matter of ensuring that the Chamber is not possibly misinformed. Now imagine that the first press release had been sent. A press release that said: that 4.7 million from Nieuwsuur is wrong, it's not true. Then the turnips would have been cooked. We would have been sitting here in ten rotten microphones and saying: it is a shame that the Minister of V and J claims that it is not true, when it is true. So I think it is an extremely sensible political opinion from the Members of Parliament at the time, entirely in line with Mr Buma's speech, but with a different conclusion. Members of parliament in a coalition, though it happens during this period also with opposition parties, which indicate that they think it wise to do so, in the vein of: we warn you about the political consequences of sisters and so on. In this case, it is very wise to advise: if you do not know what the right amount is, it is not wise to deny that the amount that Nieuwsuur has just announced is correct. I think that is sensible and it has removed the whole haze created as if essential information had been withheld from the Chamber. The opposite seems true to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u43	This is a problematic reaction. The first sentence of the press release is: Newsuur's coverage, which brings Newsuur, is incorrect and incorrect. That's the first sentence. If Mr Zijlstra is standing here saying 'what a wonderful thing that they have saved the Minister from a misstep and what a wonderful thing that the right information has gone out', then that is not true. It's a painful affair. Apart from the self-reflection you might expect, in the vein of "it is wise to send two MPs to a minister with information coming back to the Chamber of which they themselves belong," I would point out that first sentence. That one wasn't right. That wasn't true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u44	I refer once again to the answers given to the questions that have been asked. I would like to stick to the facts and avoid all kinds of smoke coming out of various contributions. I'm not running away from the fact that a lot has gone wrong. I think I started that, too. It concerns the advice of the relevant Members of Parliament. They are clear about that. They have advised not to say that the 4.7 million is incorrect. The press release is a responsibility of the directors. I think the opinion that has been delivered is a good one. That doesn't mean I'm saying anything about the press release. I say what I think of the opinion in question, and I think that was your question, I say to Mr Segers. Well, this is what I think of the relevant opinion. I believe that I have already given quite clear qualifications on the provision of information on all these broadcasts. On the opinion in question, which was rejected, I found the response of the Members of Parliament at the time and the current members of the government clear, because it sees that aspect. I think it is very sensible for a Member of Parliament to say to a govern ment that it is very strange for him to deny it if he does not have that information and that he should not do so. I think that's wise, but that's my judgment. You're free to have someone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u45	Finally?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u46	I do have a different opinion on that. If a number of details are changed, it does not change the first sentence of the press release. And that makes it painful. Information was available indicating a different amount from the amount mentioned here in the Chamber. Mr Pechtold mentioned the whole series in his speech. That information was present at the Ministry. If there is then a press release stating that Nieuwsuur, which is about to reveal the correct amount, has come up with incorrect information, it has been a fatal decision to send the press release with that first sentence. In my opinion, that is not what I have just heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u47	Then Mr Segers must listen carefully to what I say. I am not saying that I think that the press release is the most brilliant press release in the history of Dutch politics, to put it exceptionally euphemistically. I am concerned about this, and that was the question that Mr Segers asked about what I thought of the opinion of the relevant Members of Parliament and current directors. That advice is about a piece of that press release. They were invited, as clearly stated in the reply, by the then govern ment, Mr Opstelten, to take a look. You can then be very formal and say no, but in many cases Members will indeed be watching. If you look at the advice on the subject, I think that is a sensible advice. Once again, and I admit that to Mr Segers, I am not saying that it was a good press release, but as far as this piece is concerned, it would have been very unwise to deny something that you simply don't know was true or not. We didn't know that at the time, because the receipt hadn't been found yet. I think that's a wise advice from a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u48	Mr Zijlstra said that it is ridiculous that two MPs, one of whom is the campaign leader of the VVD, should go to a ministry to change a press release. I keep saying it's not normal. Why was it really wrong information? There's more in that answer. I refer, for example, to Question 126. It states that Mr Teeven was also present. He mentions the amount of 4.8 million. What was the problem? They knew very well that it was heading for that 4.8 million. While they were putting out a press release with that denial, they said it shouldn't be too hard, because in their heads they knew it might be true. However, they did not report that to the Chamber. They didn't say, "Beware Room, we're going to make a press release that Newshour might be right." It was the denial. That's why it was fog and it was false. Mr Zijlstra must not continue to defend this, because it cannot be defended. I'll tell the ministers that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u49	I don't share that. Once again, I think I have said quite clearly both yesterday and just now to Mr Pechtold what I think of the whole of the news, the information and the response at that time. But as far as this specific opinion is concerned, I think it is very important, quite frankly, even if someone is planning to issue a press release at that time stating that Newshour is wrong and it is quite clear, also heard the discussions in the Chamber, that they had no idea at V and J whether it was true or not. If you don't know if it's true, don't say it's not true. I think that was the essence of the opinion and I think that is sensible. In my text, moreover, the question to the rulers is whether my reading is the right one. That's what I like to hear from them. But my opinion, and that is what I am asked for on this specific opinion, is that I think it is sensible. Imagine if the Minister had also said it wasn't true. Five days later, it was completely true. It's very wise to advise someone not to say something that you're not sure is. Everyone in this room will agree to that. Then you better say that the text is so bold that you shouldn't, because it is true for the same reason. I can say it more often: I think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u50	I think this is proof, as I said in my input, of how wrong the VVD apparently looks at driving a department. It wasn't about someone making a press release like Mr Zijlstra said. The Minister of Justice, with a proper information section, makes a message that goes outside and that also reaches the Chamber. Then it is not normal for two MPs to go to the department to say: we do not find that a useful press release. We are going to be busy in the Lower House if we have to check all the press releases from departments. No, there was a panic in the VVD, because something came out that Mr Zijlstra had just recognized for two years or one and a half years. That came out, at a rotten moment, and it had to stay under the table and therefore Bitch could call out what he wanted......................................................................................................................................................... One question to Mr Zijlstra: how smart does he think it is to put those two people in the place that the previous two rulers had just left?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u51	They are extremely capable people, who, in my opinion, are so wise not to make statements or put them in press releases, which are incorrect. One of the things that went wrong at that ministry was that this did happen, that it did happen with what actually happened in 2002. The Oosting Committee's report clearly shows that an incorrect analysis was already made in 2002. This was taken over in 2014 when the first broadcast of Nieuwsuur was broadcast and they continued to do so. Actually, there's never been a moment of it: we're going to look further and see if the underlying assumption was correct. That wasn't him. If you're looking for new rulers, at least you're gonna look for people who you're guessing might have that critical attitude. I think they proved that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u52	Finally, Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u53	So where are we a year later? We have two people who have been involved in misinformation of the Chamber. The criterion of Zijlstra is not that they know anything about the rule of law, that they have all that kind of knowledge of justice and the apparatus. No, if you can get the truth out of press releases, you'll be there a week later. We are now seeing where that has led: to deal better with the staff, I would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u54	It is right that the necessary criticism should be made. It is also justified if it is directed against my party. There are a lot of VVDs in the fight against crime. Here's what went wrong, so you've got a lot of VVDs coming up. Fine. When we use big words like "the truth" and "the truth must be above the table"... Sometimes the truth is the truth. In this case, the truth is that I think one of those two people happened to be present and that the other person was asked to coordinate. Mr Buma himself stated that he felt that this was normal in previous periods. What matters, and I fully agree with Mr Buma, is that if Members of Parliament were actively engaged in misinformation, they would not be able to do so. It can't be. I again guided the question whether my interpretation is the right one. My interpretation of the answers to the questions is that they have advised the then ruler that it is very unwise to write down something that you do not know is true. I have to put it this way: the denial of what may have been true, that would have been a mistake. I think that they have prevented that from happening, and I think it is politically sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u55	Many VVDs work in the fight against crime. I don't know if you should say that out loud today when the criminal gets much richer and gets more money because he's been picked, but that aside. What matters here is that people's representatives should do their job here, and that is to control the government. I can imagine coalition discussions, but then when MPs give advice to put a minister's defence in order, so that the truth does not go to the Chamber, we have a big problem. Indeed, there was sufficient information and reason to assume that the amount was many times higher than previously reported to the Chamber. I have not heard from anyone, not even in the reply, that both persons would have sincerely tried to give an opinion to the Minister at the time that he had to show openness and honesty, so that the Chamber would be properly informed. Just getting a sentence out because you can't make it hard is wrong advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u56	You may differ on the level at which you consult as a cabinet or executive, whether it is consultation with coalition or opposition. There are frequent consultations on proposals and content. Phrases are being rewritten, whether it's about the tax plan or whatever. That happens and you can differ on that. One party, for example Mr Buma's, is always quite clear. That party says you can't negotiate with them and you can't hear anything. Other parties are just writing at the table. The second part of Mr Roemer's message, which is the part behind the decimal place, is that incorrect information was provided. That's where we part ways. In fact, I do not really see the answer that the Members of Parliament concerned, who are now directors, have misinformed and incompletely informed the Chamber at that time. They prevented the then ruler from denying what might be true. The line was still at that time that it was worth about 2 million. However, there was already a lot of fog around it, and then there would be even more fog. That's my opinion of that. I can tell you ten more times, but I don't think it's bad advice. I wouldn't have liked it if we had said, "Don't deny it," but if it's true, you have a problem. That would have been a completely different discussion. We'd all be standing here, too. Then we would have had the debate with the Minister of V and J. That minister of V and J had to resign later, after the receipt was found, of course, and that is quite understandable when you hear the Oosting Committee now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u57	That would perhaps have been most appropriate from the legal point of view. People's representatives should check the cabinet and not do the work of informers, which the ministry already has 40 of them. They should not write press releases and delete sentences, but seek that information, which was indeed present, would go to the Chamber. Back then, Mr Dijkhoff even heard parts of the interview report. He may not have read it, but he heard it. None of that information went to the Chamber either. One MP gets information, but that information is not shared with the other 149 MPs. That is a cover-up of the work we are doing here as MPs. I am very sorry to note that the chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats approves this procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u58	Mr Roemer always starts with something with which I agree. But then there's gonna be a piece behind that I don't agree with. Mr Roemer and I can differ on the way you deal with a cabinet as a coalition party. I often see this difference of opinion in this house, for example when we negotiate with different parties. There are differences. The supervisory role of the Chamber is very important. However, I also see it as a monitoring task to prevent incorrect information coming out. I would rather not have false information first come out, and then there will be a big debate because that information appears to be incorrect and we must say that it was all not so pure. That would not help in the face of politics either. I hope, however, that Mr Roemer will forgive me, too, given his remarks, I have some doubts about the fact that I, as a VVDer, as well as other Members of Parliament, am trying to ensure that directors do not get in the wind unnecessarily. If you can prevent that, you don't run away. Anyone asks for advice, you give it to them. But there's a difference of opinion. However, I very much share Mr Roemer's opinion on the controlling role of the Chamber in a generic sense. I repeat that, and I still agree with what Mr Buma said on that point. It becomes a problem if information is withheld and misinformed. I note, however, that I find the opinion on this matter not only understandable, but also sensible in view of what was before it. You're supposed to say to someone, "Get fucked"? Do you have to say: we see it coming, but do your best, because that might be the purest thing under state law? That's not my style. But once again, that is my observation, and I would like to let the rulers themselves carry out their own work on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u59	I can only conclude that even the VVD Group has been active in keeping it out of the wind and protecting its fellow party members rather than getting the truth out of the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u60	The first: yes, they were two MPs at the time. It is hard to deny that the VVD Group was involved, because they were MPs. It is true that they gave a sensible opinion in my opinion. Once again, I do not share the conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u61	I never thought we would come to a fairly fundamental discussion about the role of MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u62	That's what it was, of course, after that report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u63	I would like to put a question to Mr Zijlstra. My question is not so much what the then MPs of the VVD did in the department, but why he agreed. As chairman of the VVD, I assume he has agreed to go there. What was the purpose for these MPs? Why, for example, was the campaign manager of the VVD sent to the Ministry? With a spokesperson for the Justice Department, I can imagine, but why was the campaign manager sent along? What was the purpose of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u64	As can be seen in the reply, they were there at the Minister's invitation. At the VVD it works like this I don't know how that is at GroenLinks that they don't come to me with a note asking permission to go. That is a responsibility which we would like to leave to Members of Parliament. We do work in such a way that, as directors, there is a need for coordination on policy documents and that kind of thing, we have the door open to that. It's not like I told them to go that morning. That's just an ongoing process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u65	I assume that was discussed afterwards. I found it very striking that the campaign manager was invited to the ministry. The whole discussion is about whether it was tried to bring out the truth more in the ministry, whether it was really actively helped to strengthen the information position of the Chamber, or whether it was about keeping the VVD executives out of the wind. My question to Mr Zijlstra................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u66	I can imagine that question. As far as I know, the campaign manager in question has to answer that question himself. That appointment has been on the agenda for weeks. It had nothing to do with this case. But, yeah, if you're there and the minister asks you to take a look at it because there's news coming, you're here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u67	That's quite a coincidence...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u68	Yes. Sometimes the truth is such that you think: how is it possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u69	...that the current Secretary of State, the campaign manager, was there. I ask you about your view as leader of the VVD Group. The campaign leader therefore actively cooperates, and even stays a little longer than the spokesperson on this file to contribute to press releases. I can imagine that once you sit there as a Member of Parliament and you hear that Newshour has new information, you want to know the seam of the stocking. I would like to know exactly what new information there is and whether everything is in order. I think that is still within the remit of a Member of Parliament. Writing into a press release, especially as a campaign leader of the VVD, how did it help the ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u70	I don't know if they wrote into the press release. That's what they say every time. I don't know. I wasn't there. I note that the Oosting Committee and everything that comes after it also state in the reply that the suggestion has been made to change this. I also note that Mr Oosting himself stated in the hearing and also in the reply to written questions that there had been no change in the line of the Ministry due to the presence of the members of parliament concerned. That is the observation of Oosting. They have given opinions, but it seems that this has not led to very different lines. So we have another state-law discussion, but I think that is a derivative. I'm just asking if they wrote along. I don't think so. I think they just advised politically that it might not have been wise to deny something you don't know. Again, I think that is a sensible advice. I think I'd have given it to you myself if I'd been there. Why they were there and how that turned out, I'd like to leave it to them. It was not unusual for members of the VVD Group to be even more so, I can say that this applies to members of both coalition parties and also to members of the opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u71	So Mr Zijlstra says that he did not know that both MPs were there, that there was no feedback on the fact that they were there and that there was no contact with him during their presence about what was happening there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u72	I said that it is customary for Members of Parliament to go there for coordination and that they did not ask my permission that morning because they were there at the invitation of the directors. One of them, in my opinion, had been on an appointment for weeks under that other hat, as campaign manager. They didn't come by in the morning to ask permission. If they had asked that, I would have said: fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u73	That wasn't my question. I asked if Mr Zijlstra knew in advance whether they were going there, if he had heard afterwards that they had been there, and if he had been informed in the meantime about what was happening there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u74	I didn't get a call that day from those MPs saying, "We're working on a press release and sister and stuff." As I just said, they didn't come in advance to ask permission. I'm sure we talked about that afterwards. After all, there was a lot to do about Nieuwsuur and that receipt. We also noticed that this did not go quite smoothly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u75	Finally, Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u76	My first question remains, because Mr Zijlstra simply does not answer. They've been there and there's been a lot of phone calls, as it turns out. Mr Zijlstra says that this is part of their work. In response to our questions, the Minister states that we were there to test the built-up line of defence for shelf life. The VVD was there after a year of hassle so not to finally ask: what do we know? No, they were sitting there testing the built-up defense line for shelf life. Seven men sat there at the table, including dg Roes, who knew that Bitch had said: 4.8 million. In fact, that was in the note he had with him and from which he quoted the MPs. Also Bitch, the person who knew it was 4.8 million or 4.7 million, sat there at the table. 4.7 or 4.8 million, what difference does it make if it's so close together? It was known that Newshour was going to bring the news that night that it was going to be 4.7 million. Two MPs, the current rulers, sat there: a campaign leader and a Justice spokesperson. Now I'm going to ask my question again about judgment. I really recommend to Mr Zijlstra and the rulers to let go of this line of defence, because I will also test her for her shelf life. "Testing the built-up defense line for shelf life." That's zero truth finding. I would like to receive a response from Mr Zijlstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u77	Because they weren't in the middle of a Chamber debate. If at that time a minister asks the Members of Parliament concerned: give an opinion... Anyway, they were there and I wasn't. I consider the question that Mr Segers asked first and which I believe is also justified, namely: what about the fact that the Members of Parliament concerned would have ridden out the 4.7 million, which is what it actually means, and that they would have withheld essential information from the Chamber? Here's what I'm saying, and that's what I'm going to keep saying. That's not a line of defense, because that's what I think. I think it's wise that, the moment you see that someone is about to say something that you at least have doubts about, you give the advice: would you take that? After all, you don't know if it's true; that's obvious. I don't know what happened for the rest of it. I can now move that question into box K for the third time because I wasn't there. Have they given that kind of advice? I do not have the impression that they were writing that press release, but I would like to leave it to them to answer that question, because they were finally there. For the umpteenth time, I thought that advice was sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u78	You can only say something if there is no answer to the question, Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u79	I am yet another in a row asking a question about this point. It's just not right. Let me just say it. There were seven men at the table, including Dijkhoff and Van der Steur. Two of them knew the amount of 4.8 million. That was Bitch and the Director-General. News hours came in the evening with information we've been looking for for a year. We have been told for a year that it was 2 million. Two people at the table have on paper and in their heads that it's 4.8 million. News hours come up with 4.7 million and a little bit and 18 cents. And we're supposed to believe this hasn't changed? We must believe that a press release was only rewritten by both gentlemen to test the built-up line of defense for shelf life? Told the cat!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u80	The difficulty with the truth is that it's hard to say different than it is. When you read the report from the Oosting Committee, the amounts are spinning. Some amounts are similar, but they are very different. In reply to that whole block, a figure of 2.3 million is mentioned in Mr Roes's note. That figure came from the explanatory conversation he had with Mr Teeven. In addition, 4.8 million came from interest on interest. This brought the total amount to 7.1 million. That was in the note, I think. Or it wasn't in the note, but it was the sum of those two: 2,3 plus 4,8 is 7.1. Then Minister Opstelten's sum of 2 million went around, from which he had deducted €750,000, leaving 1.25 million. It was a big lump of money and no one knew exactly what was going on. Next comes Newsuur, which says: 4.7 million. In that case, I think it is wise to say that you should be careful not to deny that it is 4.7, because you have no idea yourself. I heard Mr Pechtold say outside the microphone that Mr Teeven knew the right amount, but I note that the sum of 2.3 million has been added to the note by Mr Roes, who spoke with Mr Teeven. That's the basic amount, where interest on interest gets over, which puts it at 7.1 million. That amount isn't close to that 4.7 million. The conclusion I'm drawing is that they had no idea at V and J. They didn't have a clue. That is also what the Oosting Committee says. What they did wrong is they just didn't go looking. After all, it turns out that they could have found it quite easily. The big reproach is that they have only continued with the 2002 amount. With that amount they have continued every day and never have they checked whether the amount is correct and whether the messages from Nieuwsuur are correct. On March 4, all kinds of people sat at the table, all shouting out, but none of them knew exactly what was going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u81	My question refers to the passage that the discussions with the MPs were not meant to help build the defense, but to test the built-up line of defense for sustainability. Mr Pechtold just referred to it. If, in future situations too, members of parliament are invited by members of the cabinet to test built-up lines of defence for sustainability, does Mr Zijlstra say that this is part of the usual job concept of VVD chamber members?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u82	Let me put it this way: this debate is not an encouragement to do so more often. The usual alignment is to ensure that the documents that go to the Chamber contain the correct information. That often happens in coalitions. Before a letter goes out, the parties want to see if the points they have inserted are in good shape. It is not for nothing that we have negotiated in the coalition agreement that it is in good shape. That happens on both sides. I think that's normal work, and that was basically part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u83	I agree with Mr Zijlstra that it may be normal work to have contacts with directors on the implementation of the coalition agreement or on the design of certain agreements. That's what happens to opposition parties. I couldn't agree more. But if it is really about the role of the Chamber to check that something went well, could it not be contrary to the dualistic view of the task if you are made too much complicit in the way letters and press releases are formulated?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u84	You must be careful not to become an accomplice, I agree with Mr Van der Staaij. That's why you should never go beyond consulting. The letters that go out are at all times the responsibility of the ruler. That is why you should not write a letter, but advise and say: beware, because with my political antenna I think that this would be wise or not. That's okay with me. The moment you stay out of it... The line isn't black and white. Or you stay out of it, that's pretty easy. If you stay out of it, it'll never bother you. If you have a tuning in on letters and documents, you also come to political judgements. Political assessments are also part of the political business. The ruler then does something with it or not. That's his or her responsibility. If that line were crossed, you'd get the foggy situation we shouldn't have. That you're giving advice and that a ruler who he or she regards as a political judge is gonna tap for a while, I get it. In this way, he tries to inform the Chamber as best he can and to prevent him from making mistakes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u85	Does Mr Zijlstra recognise my hesitation that you should be more careful when the controlling role of the Chamber is at stake and that you should say: are you going to find out the truth? In order to assess whether defence lines are sustainable, there are all kinds of people in the departments who can take a good look at them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u86	For the fourth time, I would also like to hear exactly how things were done from the leaders who were present. I come back to that one point every time. Control and advice go well together. The moment you make sure your colleagues are placed in a disadvantage, you do have a problem, I say that after others who have said this. However, I do not have the impression that this is the case now. In fact, I have the impression that exactly the opposite has happened, but that is what we hear from the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u87	The scabbard about numbers isn't really that relevant. Much more relevant is the insight given by Mr Zijlstra into the political culture he describes as normal work. I understand very well from Mr Zijlstra that it is normal work for a selective section of Members of Parliament to consult with directors and then give opinions which, of course, have to be followed urgently. Is that the culture Mr Zijlstra sketches?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u88	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u89	This means that he has a culture in which it is normal work that there is indeed consultation and that there is a lot to be done in back rooms?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u90	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u91	I do not understand, then, that Mr Zijlstra is setting out such an interesting story about the normal work called consultation and that there has indeed been back-room politics. Mr Zijlstra is running away from that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u92	Again, no. It is three times no, because every time conclusions are drawn on something I say: it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u93	Mr Klaver, I see you're back behind the interrupting microphone, but you've just been there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u94	That was a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u95	I am looking at Mr Segers, but he has an interruption on a new point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u96	Mr Zijlstra has just said that there is no problem as long as advice remains. Where's the border? Can he make this a little clearer? When is there no more advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u97	You can't cut that with scissors. With those present will always be a feeling of whether or not. Mr Klaver will be aware of this throughout the whole process of study funding. You talk to ministers, you talk to coalition parties, you advise to record certain things or not. Sometimes you think: it's your responsibility, good luck with it. Sometimes you advise. Ultimately, the bottomline is that responsibility must remain with the ruler at all times. He's responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u98	That is where he lies by definition, because the ruler finally makes the decision and so you are constantly advising. If Mr Zijlstra says that the border lies with advice and that you cannot get past it, the question is when do you go over it? I think it may already be wrong in advising an sich, because some things you don't deal with. Keeping the ruler out of the wind is very often not in the interest of parliament and of your role as a representative of the people; that will be in the best interest of your party. That's where the advice goes wrong. So it's not a question of when advice turns into something else. It's about giving advice that doesn't fit in with the role and task you have as a representative of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u99	I would like to comment on another point on the first part of Mr Zijlstra's contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u100	Actually, I wasn't there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u101	So far, Mr Zijlstra has used about one minute of his speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u102	Indeed, but Mr Zijlstra has already said important things. Among other things, he accepts the conclusions of the Oosting Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u103	Yes. I endorse it. It is up to the cabinet to adopt these conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u104	He supports these conclusions and I welcome them. He said in the broadcast of EenVandaag that the deal with Cees H. was a bad deal. However, that is a different story from what we heard in the Prime Minister's 40-minute press conference. He said there might have been something else to it. Does this mean that if Mr Zijlstra accepts the conclusions of the Oosting Committee, he will withdraw from what the Prime Minister said last Friday?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u105	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u106	Both can't be true. Mr Oosting, the chairman of the Oosting Committee, said yesterday at the hearing: there was no deal behind it; this is what it is; we searched and asked everything; this is what it is. It's a thick report commissioned by the Chamber, an investigation to get the bottom stone up. Now we have a new option, namely that there might be an extra deal, a secret deal, with information we don't know about. That's new smoke, new fog. Then we have a very big problem, just after an interesting study has been published.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u107	The question was whether I distanced myself from what the Prime Minister said. The answer to that question is no. I also want to explain why. That question hasn't been asked yet, but I'll fill it out. When I look at the deal, I look at a deal that was closed in 2000. On page 58 of the investigatory report, I think it is quite clear: "Mr Vrakking agrees with the words of the Committee of Inquiry that information has been given which was criminally relevant to one or more of Mr Teeven's major criminal cases, other than H's. Mr Vrakking added that the content of the information also concerned the safety of people." So that's what the committee wrote down. Like the committee, I have to say that I do not know that information. I know what Mr Vrakk said. This is also clearly stated in the report on their obligation of confidentiality, so I cannot judge that, just as the Oosting Committee cannot. That is why I say: the only thing I can judge is the withdrawal. I am quite clear about that: I didn't think that was a good deal. That's what I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u108	Mr Oosting was crystal clear yesterday. Here's what he said. If there had been a secret deal, it wouldn't have been legal. Then there was no permission. Then it wasn't enough. Moreover, we have offered Mr Teeven to inform us confidentially, but he has not used it. So even if there were more, it would not have enough substance and then it would not have happened in accordance with the rule of law. Mr Teeven did not want to say any more about this, although he had that opportunity. That is what Mr Oosting said yesterday. Then there comes a time when Mr Oosting has to say: this is what it is, it is not virtue. Then the question is: do we take over or do we not take over?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u109	I think I just said the same thing. Like the Oosting Committee, I can only look at the withdrawal. Now, then, I very much agree with the Oosting Committee. I think I made that very clear in the last week. The first part's in there, too. I cannot judge that, like the Oosting Committee. By the way, I don't feel like going into criticism of the committee at all, but this is exactly what I thought was a pity. It is precisely because we cannot judge it that we cannot judge it. So you can't say afterwards that if there had been a deal, it wasn't good anyway. We cannot judge it. Frankly, I thought that was the only thing I thought: is it wise for Mr Oosting to say that? If you can't judge it, you can't judge it. I can't judge it, and I'm looking at the withdrawal. I'm saying that wasn't a good deal. And what happened for the rest of us is also covered by the confidentiality obligation. It has been said that perhaps they should not have done so. Well, we're talking about a deal that's been made with a criminal. The words of Superintendent Vrakking, who, according to Mr Oosting, must also be taken extremely seriously, indicate that this has been part of later criminal proceedings. Later he says in the media that it has led to severe convictions. If you do something like this in a process like this, so when you meet secrecy, secrecy is part of it. I'd like to take care of that. If you are going to say that maybe ten or twenty years later it can be made public or shared with others through any back door, then you are violating that confidentiality. I would very much like to know, and I think everyone would like to know, but I understand that the people involved in that deal say that this confidentiality obligation applies and that we have to abide by it. Otherwise, we should have given the Oosting Committee a completely different task, but that has not happened. So I get it, but I repeat, I can't judge that. About the only thing I can judge, I'm clear: I didn't think that was a good deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u110	We'd all like to know. But there are three people in the country, two of whom know, who still believe in this theory: Bitches, Vrasking and Rutte. Rutte probably doesn't know, but he thinks it's possible. The question now is whether the leader of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats would like to join this illustrious group, or simply note with us the following: that if Mr Teeven or Mr Vraking wanted to tell us something, they could have done it in 2000; that they didn't, nor could they have done it to their superiors; that in 2015, when Teeven was heard, but that he hadn't grasped that opportunity again; and that this could have happened at any other time. I think that Mr Zijlstra's suggestion is a stain on the Oosting Committee. Yesterday, Oosting also said that anyone who still insists that something was against it must come up with proof or keep their mouths shut. As far as I am concerned, the same applies to Mr Zijlstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u111	Then I repeat what I just said. If you make a deal in such a situation and have secrecy on it, that secrecy is respected by those involved. I think that's normal, as much as I'd like to know. And again: otherwise we would have had to send the committee another message, but we did not. Let us note that. Next, I note that there are many things that are said about it, including in the report itself. This is not a statement by Mr Zijlstra or anyone else; it is a quote from the report. I like it all, and I like it, but I can't judge it. I honestly can't, because I don't know. So I can only judge the part that is known: the withdrawal. And I have a clear judgment about this withdrawal: that was not a good deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u112	It really needs to stop with that fog. Cees H. was sentenced to 15 years for hard drugs, soft drugs and blowing up a prison door. He served about half of that. He was allowed to walk out like this. That's right. Something happened back then. Then he received 4.7 million guilders, a boat, the proceeds of an apartment and jewelry from his wife. On all sides there was cooperation to give that. And that was when the minister, VVD Minister Korthals, said: you don't buy your freedom. Oosting's done some research. He's exposed everything clearly. I believe that Vrakking, Bitches, Rutte, Zijlstra and anyone else should either agree to this debate or press for a parliamentary inquiry to get the bottom stone, which is apparently still there. I do not think it is possible for it to be repeatedly suggested that there might be a little more. Then those involved should have opened their mouths. Otherwise it will be too late after this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u113	Again, I understand the confidentiality obligation. I repeat what I said. The only thing I can judge, in my opinion, is that the only thing I'm judging is the withdrawal, and I honestly don't think that's a good deal. In the direction of Mr Pechtold, I say: do not make it more juicy than it is. On the boat and on a number of cases in Belgium, the report states that those were cases that were not in the seizure and could not therefore be given away. So don't give up the suggestion that those things were given away. It was extremely complex, it was a time when this was in its infancy. Things have happened, and that is where the Oosting Committee is extremely clear about what is simply not right. I'm not running away from that either. I think I've been clear about that. I make my assessment on the basis of the report of the Oosting Committee. I'm looking at what's on pag. 58 stands and what is beyond; I look at what is known and unknown. I'm judging that what's out there wasn't a good deal. I can't make it any prettier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u114	Let me ask what the VVD led by Mr Zijlstra has done over the past year to get the truth out of the table. I am thinking of the number of Members of Parliament who stood here for oral questions and the number of Members of Parliament who stood here from the opposition to put oral and written questions. We had a debate in 2013 where there were 80 questions and 40 interruptions, but none of the VVD. On 10 March this year there was another debate with more than 50 interruptions, but none of the VVD. The VVD doesn't need to know and doesn't want to know. Those who ask through are told: there may be more, yes, we have had a very important committee that has asked everyone, but who knows there is more. I just think that's a show.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u115	Mr Pechtold should not put words in my mouth. With all due respect, I'm not saying there could be more. I read the findings in the report and I agree with the assessment of what is contained in the report. Mr Pechtold can create fog about that, but there is no fog. I had a few questions, but they have passed in the last hour. What exactly about that thing at the Ministry? Is my conclusion correct, I have repeated it often enough, and can the rulers shine their light on it? Can the Prime Minister clearly state his appreciation of the deal which has been the subject of some fuss since Friday in this Chamber? These are questions which, as far as we are concerned, require further answers. My colleagues have already asked the necessary questions, and I think there will be a number of further questions in a moment. So there are still some things not clear, but it is clear that I have already said that a lot has gone wrong. I don't want to hide that in any way. That would be inappropriate. However, I would also like to make a comment. The report is clear that the deal today could probably not be closed. However, the deal was not concluded today, the deal was concluded in 2000, at a time when the detection methods of the Public Prosecutor's Office were significantly less developed than they are now. Legislation on withdrawal was still in its infancy. At the same time, serious crime took place particularly in and around Amsterdam. It was at that time when the Public Prosecutor was trying to fight that serious crime, and in doing so, that has become clear, sometimes unconventional methods have been used. For the VVD, however, I would like to say that all this was done with the intention to combat this serious crime. Let me be clear: the VVD doesn't want the Public Prosecutor to take on criminals with a velvet glove. Criminals we dare to tackle and you need a Public Prosecutor's Office with guts for that, but of course we do act within the rules of the rule of law. And that is why we endorse the conclusions of this report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u116	Mr Pechtold has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u117	Mr President, I have two more questions. Mr Zijlstra himself has already indicated that he is the H.Z. is in the text and other telephone exchanges with the former President of the Chamber. After Nieuwsuur has come up with the whistle-blower letter, Mr Zijlstra is informed: it was a storm in a glass of water. I don't get it at all. What did the President-in-Office say in advance and afterwards? What did she mean? Why is a whistle-blower letter dismissed as a storm in a glass of water?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u118	I can only tell you my side of the story. Unless there's an employee who's H.Z. If you have initials and received exactly the same text, I can at least say here that I received that text. In my opinion, the President of the Chamber called me on a Thursday on Thursday, and I think that on the weekend after that we had a congress, a party council or at least something from the party with the announcement: I was approached by Nieuwsuur and they indicated to me that they wanted to speak quickly because of serious personal facts. That sounded ominous. She had invited Nieuwsuur to come over immediately, but Nieuwsuur indicated that it could not come over immediately because the journalist in question had to take his or her child from the nursery, if I remember correctly. To be honest, I didn't think that was a proper way of doing things. If you call someone with such a heavy message, I think it's nice that you're gonna stop by at the same time, so that person knows what's going on. Later I heard from the President of the Chamber that an appointment had been made for the next morning, at 10.30 a.m. or 11.00 a.m., I believe. I told her to let me know what's going on. The next morning, I received a text message from Mr. Pechtold, who said: storm in a glass of water. What it doesn't say is that I called the President of the Chamber. I said: I find that rather annoying. I said it a little bit, to be honest. Such a message actually keeps you out of your sleep for one night, because you're going to think: what's going on, what did I do wrong and what do I get on my bread? And then it turns out to be a storm in a glass of water. I asked: do you want me to have our head of information call the editorial board of Nieuwsuur to say that this is not a proper course of action towards the chairman of the House of Representatives? She replied, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u119	I am surprised why the head of information of the VVD should then call. The President of the Chamber has its apparatus and...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u120	She is also a member of my group. I feel a responsibility for members of my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u121	Mr Pechtold had the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u122	But wasn't it about the President in office and a whistle-blower letter to the Chamber about 4.7 million? It wasn't about anything else, was it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u123	I didn't even know what it was about. If a member of my group is approached in such a way, even though she is President at the time, I tend to say: I do not think this is a proper way of doing things. Then I'm willing to talk to people who do this. In the end, the President said that this was not necessary, but I had no idea of the subject at issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u124	Finally, Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u125	I have one last question. Mr Zijlstra has just said that he does not always know where his MPs are going and what they are going to do. Mr Teeven has now presented the report a few times outside this Chamber. He spoke about the whole case prior to the report, but also in response to the report. When the Chamber wanted to hear him, that was blocked by the VVD group, but to my surprise I am now getting a press release stating that Mr Teeven will explain the findings of the Oosting Committee on the Bitch Deal in, yes, the Holy Land Foundation next Monday. I don't think that's very neat. Mr Zijlstra has a somewhat larger group than I do, but if Mr Teeven has anything to explain, would he like to come here? I think he's in the building. I'd like to receive it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u126	I read the same message. Given where that came from, you should check it out anyway. I can tell you that Mr. Teeven just had an appointment there for a political café. The organization in question, without knowing Mr Teeven in it, hung this lure in the air. That is why Mr Teeven has cancelled the meeting because he does not want to operate in such a setting. Mr Teeven has no need of explaining the deal or the report of the Oosting Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u127	In addition, Mr Teeven is a Member of Parliament and not a member of the cabinet. We also need to keep an eye on the exact nature of this state law, but that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u128	Mr. Chairman. More than 20 years ago, a district attorney in Amsterdam claimed the removal of hundreds of millions from a convicted criminal. That would all result later in an abdication, called the Bitch Deal. It was a deal that for years was surrounded by secrecy, persistent questions and a lot of fog. The Oosting Committee has now put an end to this fog and persistent questions. The committee's conclusions and recommendations are well-balanced, balanced and precise. The inevitable judgment is that the deal cannot pass the test of criticism and that too much has gone wrong in the accountability and in the provision of information to Parliament. In recent days, much has been said about what exactly this debate would be about. Let me give you my opinion on that. This debate on withdrawal and its settlement is essentially about the rule of law and whether the government, in its task of keeping the Netherlands safe, respects the rule of law. It is precisely when new terrain is entered, as was the case here, that extreme care is required. In our democratic rule of law, therefore, maximum openness and full accountability to Parliament is essential. If it has suspended what is the case in this case, then we must learn from it together. As far as I am concerned, this debate is about that. This learning of course starts with a consensus between parliament and the cabinet on exactly what mistakes have been made. Without that, there can be no improvement. I am therefore pleased that the cabinet supports the conclusions of the Oosting Committee and accepts the recommendations. But there are still a few specific and very relevant points under this generic valuation that the Labour Party wants to be absolutely clear about. Over the last few days, there seemed to be a slight existence, or that simply existed between the conclusions of the Oosting Committee and the appreciation from the cabinet. I'm going to walk by those points in a very specific way. I would also like a specific answer to that. First of all, the appreciation of the withdrawal did not work. Ready. More relevant than the question in the previous debate as to whether it was proportionate to give Cees H. so much money, is the care of the settlement. In our view, this care plays an important role. The way permission was requested, it wasn't right. The way permission was granted, it wasn't right. And also the execution of that agreed deal was ultimately inadequate. So there can be no misunderstanding about that at all: the deal was not good. I'll ask the Cabinet to confirm that. Then I come to the information to the Chamber: the famous discussion report between Mr Teeven and Mr Roes. How does the Prime Minister look back on the decision not to deliver that discussion report to the Chamber during the debate on 10 March? Wouldn't it have been better afterwards to take a little more time to go through the interview report yourself? In all likelihood, disclosure was already decided at that stage. Why didn't the Prime Minister ask Mr Teeven for his memories before, a little more in depth? The defence on this point has so far been extremely formalistic. In my opinion, overall responsibility for a careful process by the Prime Minister requires him to step through the formal lines from time to time and thereby force a breakthrough in a dossier. Why did the Minister of Security and Justice at the time remove the passages of the BOOM investigation on the deal? These passages do not contain confidential data on persons. This simply shows that there had been a better deal possible. Why shouldn't the Chamber know that BOOM had so much criticism of the deal? What were the reasons for that decision? How can it be guaranteed that this will not happen again? I'm rounding up. If it succeeds in reaching agreement in this debate on what went wrong, which will depend to a large extent on the responses of the cabinet and on what needs to be improved, the work begins from that point on: strengthening the rule of law by increasing care, improving openness, accountability and effectiveness. Much work has to be done to achieve this. I am anxiously waiting for the proposals that the cabinet is going to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u129	When the current Minister and Secretary of State were appointed, Mr Samsom will at least be informed as a coalition partner. Did he then know of their extremely close involvement in the settlement of the Bitch Deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u130	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u131	Do you find it useful afterwards to appoint people who are so involved in the ultimately inadequate provision of information on what two ministers had just resigned for?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u132	The answer to that question depends on the assessment of the action taken at that ministry on that day in March. A lot of questions have been asked about that. I did not want to repeat that, but I am as curious as many of you to the answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u133	That gives the impression that at least you did not know that this was the case at the time. That in itself says a lot, because it has become very decisive, as it turns out now. You also knew nothing about the fact that they were involved in the press release and in its handling?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u134	No, not in that detail phase. I knew, of course, that they were two MPs who were both spokesmen in the field of the Minister and the Secretary of State for V and J, one of the reasons why they are now Minister and Secretary of State for V and J, namely. And I knew that in the general relations between Chamber and Cabinet, which you also know very well, and certainly between coalition groups and cabinet, there is frequent contact and coordination on letters and other matters that the cabinet produces.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u135	One more question. Your group colleague Recourt was informed that day. Did you hear anything about the amount and the problems that arose in the information about Nieuwsuur?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u136	I've checked that out. Mr Recourt was even kind enough to inform me too, at a quarter past nine in the evening. So he gave it to me nicely. Then the final press release was ready. Mr Recourt received a call from the PA during the day. That is also in some of the answers given by the cabinet. I discussed with Mr Recourt what might have changed in that call. Without a detailed reminder, first of all, the notice was adopted for notification. Secondly, that is consistent in the line taken by my group and certainly by my spokesman in this area, Mr President, it has been pointed out that the risks may well have been true what Nieuwsuur was doing that evening and whether they had been taken into account. It turned out later that this was taken into account, because the relevant passage that would be flagrantly contradicting the truth was deleted from the press release.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u137	It is striking, because twice in the reply by Minister Van der Steur the PvdA appears, as it were, apparently during the drafting of the press release. Now it's said every time: that number of 4.7 is taken out, but what's much worse about that whole press release is that it's just said: Newsage, they're a bunch of liars, yuckies, none of it makes any sense. That's what's being held up. Did you not at any time think that after a year we should finally start asking questions and not just the SP, D66, the Christian Union and the rest of the opposition? Did you not think that as a coalition party, after having had your party mate, the Kalsbeek Committee, I would like to know the truth about how many millions have gone to this drug criminal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u138	The first sentence of the press release is that the claim of Nieuwsuur that the Chamber has been misinformed is incorrect. The claim of Nieuwsuur itself is not contradicted, that is now explicitly the passage, in which it threatened to happen that the final version did not reach. The first sentence of the press release is that the claim of Nieuwsuur that the Chamber has been misinformed is incorrect. I don't know if this is the literal quote, but it's getting close, I guess. The Minister's ability to write this was partly due to a consistent line of, among other things, my group, but of many groups. Almost a year before, the Minister had here once, you remember it all very well, who mentioned 2 million as a firm fact and said: those are the facts, those are the facts, you have to trust me, these are the facts. Ever since he said that, my group has been sitting on the finch rope to check whether that was a true statement. The Minister has already taken that back at a stage far ahead of that press release. In the letter of 3 June 2014, the Minister of V and J wrote, at the time, that there is less certainty about that amount. That is a little cautious in my humble opinion. However, it does say: there is no certainty as to whether that amount of 2 million is exactly right. In other words, from that moment on, the Chamber was also aware that the sum of 2 million could be right, but perhaps it is true that, in the eyes of some, including my group, it is probably not. As a result, the press release on that night of Nieuwsuur was not formulated in such a way that we went back into that old mistake. That's what we just figured out. There were already mistakes enough to escape. Luckily, this one had recovered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u139	That's not true, because it's just a double denial. It is said that the message from Nieuwsuur that the Chamber has been misinformed is incorrect. It then appears that the Chamber has actually been misinformed. There at the table was the group of seven taping the message that both dg Roes and Teeven knew more. In short, with a little more fuss one knew one thing for sure, namely that the amount of 2 million could indeed go into the stove once and for all. In the meantime, it became increasingly clear that the amount went towards 5 to 6 million. Since the first broadcast of Nieuwsuur, attorney Kuijpers has talked about an amount of 5 to 6 million, minus 750,000 guilders. If you take the average of 5 to 6 million ounces, so 5.5 million ounces minus 750,000 ounces, what do you come up with? 4.7 to 4.8 million. At that time, the member of the PvdA Chamber concerned could have pushed through a little more and said: boys, cut the press releases, all the way as MPs, and let us just make sure that we get the truth out of the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u140	Exactly, and that's why right after that press release that famous search started, which already within a few days, embarrassing as it was, led to the actual message. In my view, this was precisely the result of the truth we are pursuing with each other, albeit far too late and far too reluctant. But that was up to the minister of V and J and he took responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u141	I'd like to ask you about the coalition's way of working. I heard Mr Zijlstra say that there is constant contact with the various leaders, and that applies both to my group and to the coalition group of the PvdA. I understand that very well when it comes to the co-legislative task. I understand very well, when laws are made and proposals are made, that you have discussions about that. But when it comes to the supervisory task and the information position of the Chamber, I ask: has what happened to two MPs who had to help Opstelten, also ever happened to the PvdA? Is that indeed the modus operandi of your group?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u142	No, but I do agree with Mr Zijlstra that it is difficult to distinguish precisely with a knife. I agree with you that, in generic terms, Parliament's controlling role requires a somewhat more dual attitude in order to function than the co-legislative task. The word "partly" already says it: then you do it a bit together. I sat at your table a few times doing that. Fortunately, we are all involved in this. It makes laws better. So I agree with you in a generic sense, and we are trying to stick to it as best we can. If we ever find out that it did not happen correctly, if mistakes are made in the Labour Party, then I am also very strict on this. We have, for example, the practice of the renowned government representatives' consultation. In previous Cabinets, very extensive discussions were held on what would then be discussed in the Council of Ministers. We have reduced this, very much reduced even, because I actually think that where there is a group and rulers sitting at one table together, this kind of thing should be less explicitly discussed. Because the controlling task often comes around the corner there. That's an example, but it's also a little generic. I am very curious to hear the Minister and Secretary of State's reply on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u143	Then let me zoom in more on this case. It's always easy to say: you can't cut it entirely with scissors. But I think it is quite obvious that this was not about the co-legislative task. It's really about the controlling function we have. In that light, how do you assess the actions of the members of your coalition colleague's group and the way in which they have acted in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u144	That depends, after all, on the reply of the Minister and the Secretary of State. I agree with an earlier questioner that it is somewhat ambigue or ambivalent.I know the exact Dutch word is not formulated. It's the tests of the shelf life or something. I have an explanation of that which is correct, but there is also an explanation that does not relate very well to a dual set-up. In this case, two MPs saved the Minister from making a pretty big mistake, namely misinformed Parliament. I cannot rule out the fact that my group has done so on occasion, and I do not find that, frankly, unacceptable either. The fact that you stand by each other to prevent mistakes is also so inhuman here as it is a rather human and good quality if you work together. I do not think that is such a big problem. If more has really been done than that, for example, that in a kind of sparring game has been tested for once how to get to the finish with a wrong press release, that seems to me to be incorrect and should also be avoided. I deliberately put it to the other side now, but Mr Buma was more on that line.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u145	I have a question about the Prime Minister's press conference last Friday. There was some surprise among the journalists who asked the questions. There are people who have looked at it with mixed feelings, because the Chamber has set up a committee to find out. It's been dragging for a long time, and it goes back to a deal 15 years ago. There have been all kinds of debates and questions. In short, figure it out. Now there's a report from the committee and then there's an additional version that says it might be a lot more and different. How did Mr Samsom look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u146	I've been looking into that, too. I always try to follow that as best I can, and this time I did. It's extremely entertaining, but I didn't think that was convenient. Then I'll put it quietly. I asked a question about it, too. I believe that the judgment of the cabinet should and should remain that the deal was not right. Point, without creating new fog around possible aspects of the deal that you could suddenly put in a different light. I think that the cabinet should be clear about this and that was not entirely possible at the press conference.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u147	That's a pretty clear reaction. Thank you for that. In the meantime, we have read a response from Mr Vrakking in De Telegraaf, in which he says that everything is going on and that everything is hiding behind it. Those questions were also put to the Oosting Committee in the hearing yesterday, which says that it asked for everything and asked for everything. If it had been there, it wouldn't have been allowed and there should have been permission. There wasn't one. We could've talked about it in private, but they didn't use it. Is this then what it is for the PvdA Group and is the opinion of the Oosting Committee the starting point? Is that how we end it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u148	Oh, yeah. In connection with that first part of your question, I note that the consent was not good, that is, both the questioning and the giving of it. Several parties have made really big mistakes here. Next, in the implementation of the contract, something went wrong that was more to the requesting So there's no misunderstanding. This deal wasn't allowed, no matter what was against it, and no matter how important it was. We don't have to talk about that. Maybe it's just wise that we don't talk about it. In some cases it is wise to speak less about it and this is one of them. It's not necessary either, because the deal in itself wasn't right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u149	I do hear some critical questions from Mr Samsom to the cabinet. Of course everyone is interested in the answers, but my question to Mr Samsom is why the PvdA, as a coalition partner, has allowed the VVD to mess with for so long? In the previous debate, I asked him to do the same. In the meantime, he still has an attitude of "we're looking at it, but we didn't do everything we could to get that truth up."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u150	In the previous debate, the Oosting Committee was born by a motion signed by Chamberwide, including myself. What more could we have done than have done such a thorough investigation? Yes, we could have done one more thing, and that was the moment in the debate when we saw the talk note. I asked a question about that. That might have made it even more complete. I'd like to hear from the Prime Minister how he looks at that. In reply to Mr Roemer's question, I would like to ask what more the PvdA could have done in the previous debate. That must be proved afterwards, but, of course, with the appointment of Mr Oosting, a certain guarantee was given. I don't know what else we could have done about truth finding at a time like this. I thought that was one of the better moments of the parliamentary period so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u151	For at least two years, the Chamber has done everything in its power to get the truth out of the table. When we asked for interviews with people, those talks were also blocked by the Labour Party. Everything was done to keep it small. In no way have we, except by unanimously setting up this committee, been given the impression that the Labour Party has been doing its utmost for two years to carry out its controlling task. That's too bad. I welcome Mr Samsom's critical questions, but I am very afraid that at the end of the journey the story will be normal: we looked at them and we left it as it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u152	We are talking in this debate about creating fog. Now, Mr Roemer, you shouldn't miss out on this either. You say there were all kinds of moments when the Labour Party was not fully alert. What were those moments? I have here the whole list of moments ahead of me and it shows that many in the Chamber, including your esteemed colleague Jan de Wit, have asked important questions, which have been answered and from which a debate has arisen. I even believe that there was a time when the Labour Party and the VVD wanted a debate and not the opposition. Well, sometimes his interests are just the opposite. That debate has taken place in the end, and much more has happened in the last two years. We have already reflected on this in the previous debate. We've all found that it could've been better. The same applies to the Chamber, especially at that time. So we all started the Oosting Committee, which led to this debate, with critical questions to the cabinet. I am very curious to hear the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u153	Mr Roemer is right: in recent years something has been tried by De Wit, Berndsen and Segers. We've had little support from the PvdA. In fact, when a procedural meeting took place last week and eight VVDs came running, a large number of PvdA's came running around to make sure the whole thing didn't go through. Among the 250 written questions I have not been able to see many questions from the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u154	Now you need to be specific. At the last procedural meeting, the whole thing wasn't blocked. One specific question was blocked, namely hearing Teeven and Upstellen from their previous function. Mr Pechtold, as an experienced Member of Parliament, knows better than I do how it works with ministerial responsibility. We hear what we are doing here, the current Secretary of State and the current Minister. They are responsible for everything, including what the previous Secretary of State and Minister did. To put it into the words of this debate, that proposal was not right. All the other proposals made by Mr Pechtold there are good ones and go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u155	Mr. Chairman. Like the previous speakers, I would like to express my thanks for the much work done by the Oosting Committee. This debate is about the prestige of politics, said Mr Segers very strikingly at the beginning of the debate. Nearly at the end of the first term of the Chamber, I would like to ask whether, at the end of this debate, citizens will gain more or less confidence in politics and in politics. In the debate following the resignation of Secretary of State Mansveld, I spoke about a culture of deception, because the Chamber was immemorial, incorrect and incompletely informed. A number of people in the VVD class were yelling and sighing back then. The Prime Minister was even a little angry about these words; he thought they were "too heavy." Now it's a month and a half later. Does the Prime Minister still find the words "culture of deception" misplaced? Does he still think it's too heavy words? Is there even a culture of cover-up? After all, everything about the Bitch Deal was covered up. The lips were held together, letters went into the shredder and notes went back into the vault. Political sacrifices had to be made to save the cabinet. The Teevendeal has so far cost one State Secretary, one Minister and one President of the Chamber. I know very well how it works with the ministerial responsibility, but there's one person who just sits around. And it is in the field of the VVD, namely Mr Fred Teeven himself. And in the meantime, we continue with the political victims. According to this logical order, it is clear which position is now wavering. The VVD has messed up the Ministry of Security and Justice. It is becoming more and more "the Ministry of Concealers and Jockeys." The crime fighters of the VVD turn out to be real criminals. But when you make shady deals with shady criminals, you also become a shady ministry with a shady culture. This leads to all kinds of shady debates here in the House of Representatives. As far as we're concerned, we shouldn't settle with criminals. Judges just have to do their job. Criminals are not spoken in shadowy backrooms, but in the clear, transparent light of the courtroom. Politicians shouldn't be shady deal makers who help each other get jobs and keep covering for each other. Politicians must be representatives of the people who raise the problems in the country, who have a solution in mind and who contribute to them. As far as we are concerned, this sad soap opera has lasted too long. Time to think differently, time to be transparent and honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u156	Mr. Chairman. The VVD should set the highest standards in terms of integrity as the country's largest party. "If things don't add up, we'll figure them out, and there may be consequences." With these words, the Prime Minister was very clear in NRC Handelsblad of 27 February this year. He had to; the VVD was just as much in dispute as you can expect from a political party. We have seen in the media an almost unprecedented stream of integrity issues of the VVD. I only have six minutes to speak, so I cannot list them all. So the Prime Minister promised to get better. The VVD set up an integrity committee. That was not an unnecessary luxury, as Free Netherlands found. No party in the Netherlands had as many integrity problems as the VVD. And then it got worse. First there was awkward maneuvering, quick driving and suspicion of abuse of power and corruption, then it turned out that the VVD Ministry of law-and-order didn't take it so closely with the law: shady deals with top criminals and lost receipts. "If things don't work out, we'll figure it out, and it can have consequences, but it doesn't have to," suddenly the Prime Minister's new motto turns out. Teflon ruled. Not the beginning of an explanation came for the Bitch Deals and the forgetfulness of Teven and Upstellen. We have a Prime Minister who talks for 45 minutes in an hour but does not give any clarity. This government expects citizens to be able to submit every receipt in the tax return and even every toothbrush in the bathroom is accounted for in benefit situations. This government asks every entrepreneur to make a detailed declaration of the sales tax to the day on penalty of a fine. The same government, through the Prime Minister, has shown that, when it comes to the government itself, it is not found interesting to account for shady deals concluded with criminals outside the Tax Office. When VVD politicians heard the bell ring, they didn't investigate, they pulled the valve out. Created confusion is the central theme of this debate. It is incomprehensible that crucial data are lost in a ministry, whether it is film from Srebrenica, in conversations between a VVD Secretary of State and a VVD senator in a corruption investigation or copies of a deal with a criminal. "It is also a matter of trust," said Minister Opstelten in 2014. This led journalists from Nieuwsuur to search for the information that the department could not find, with success. I say: let us reconsider the cuts in public service broadcasting! It is a political mortal sin to deliberately withhold crucial information from the Chamber. If this concealment is meant to keep party mates out of the wind, it will be much worse. If political collaborators who actively withheld the information were then allowed to take over the Ministry of Security and Justice as a thank-you, that would be impossible to do without consequences. Centralized thinking and power politics have greatly damaged confidence in the coalition, but this governed cabinet cannot afford a new election. The coalition parties shelter each other out of fear of their voters. The Prime Minister, the Minister and the Secretary of State have much to explain, which they will not be able to do without any consequences. This debate is not about a deal 15 years ago, but about the credibility of this Prime Minister, this Minister and this Secretary of State. Do the VVD and the Labour Party again choose to cling to each other, to cover the wrong choices of the VVD executives and associates with the cloak of their forced marriage? That's today's question. All other questions have been answered. "If things don't add up, we'll figure them out, and there may be consequences." That can have consequences! Furthermore, I believe that you will not be surprised to see an end to the bio-industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u157	Madam President. I am so afraid that at the moment, while we are seriously discussing this issue, there are some top criminals at home or in their luxurious countryhouses in sunny regions smiling at the bank. They have fun because two methods are completely incompatible with each other: on the one hand the transparent, democratic rules of the game and on the other hand the dark, harsh, nothing or no-brained laws that apply in the underworld. Who said what when? Who did what at what time? Was that completely correct according to the rules of this house? With the information now available, it remains difficult for us to assess whether the deal was good, less good, bad or very bad: a ghost game. Can the Prime Minister therefore go into that again? Another pressing question: why was the Tax Administration kept out of the deal? Does this cabinet guarantee that that will never happen again? Like many colleagues, 50PLUS is mainly concerned about the provision of information to the Chamber; information from a ministry governed by only one political party. Many questions have already been asked, but on behalf of 50PLUS I ask the most important questions for us. Why did the Prime Minister act as he did: first denying, then trivializing, sometimes laughing away and now reluctantly admit that there is more going on? Why did the Prime Minister say he didn't know, but did he suggest that the deal would be good? Does the Prime Minister consider it purely that two MPs on this issue advised the Ministry in preparing the press release, which deleted crucial information on their advice? A lot of my colleagues mentioned this. Since when has it been customary for a campaign manager to be very directly involved in providing information from the Ministry on a very sensitive issue? This ministry is already seen as a VVD-fraternity, but in this way it seems to be an extension of the VVD-campaignabureau. Why has the cabinet been so reluctant to provide information? Why should the opposition in the Chamber continue to pull its full weight in order to extract the information? What effect does this practice have on the image of politics? How are the rulers looking at the interview with former District Attorney Vrakking this morning in De Telegraaf? 50PLUS has not yet been definitively assessed in this first period. We await the answers of the rulers. If it turns out that only one party and one biting teeth continue to support the Prime Minister, is a simple majority still sufficient to maintain the confidence of the people at home? All the way to the end. How do I rhyme with the two different statements made by both coalition partners: the Prime Minister of the VVD House, who says that the deal was allowed, and Mr Samsom of the Labour Party, who says that the deal was not allowed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u158	Mr. Chairman. The debate has two parts: the Bitch Deal itself and how to deal with it politically. As far as the deal itself is concerned, it is an interesting debate, but with many judgments and with the wisdom afterwards, fifteen years after that. The legislation on the deals has now been amended. So we can't learn much from it, but it's interesting historical research. But then part two. One look at the discussion we are having here today gives my group the feeling that we are increasingly developing into a banana republic. Politicians are becoming less and less interested in the fact that they belong to the legislative or executive power. In this case, it seems that borders are increasingly fading, with a political culture in which MPs advise a minister on implementation. This course of action is, of course, regrettable, but let us not fool ourselves now and pretend that something new is going on. Rollover change is already taking place far too often: deals between complete groups and rulers, forged in back rooms or during dinners, have been rough and rough for years. You will remember the famous photo of the dinner à deux by Mr Wiegel and Mr Van Agt, including wine and the atmospheric candlelight, as a symbol of backroom politics. Normal work seems to be. To hear groups now reacting indignantly or trivialising when the border between the controlling and executive powers disappears on this issue is, at least, laughable. Backroom culture alienated. However, what really alienates people from politics is selective indignation. Then it seems wise to observe a moment of reflection, a moment of self-reflection, and to work towards a political relationship that respects and restores that confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-10.u159	We have come to the end of the first term of office. I'm about to suspend for a few moments. This is followed by a brief, additional arrangement of work. Then I shall suspend the sitting until 6 p.m.
