ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u1	I have already welcomed the Secretary of State for Security and Justice to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Dutch government concluded a unique agreement with Belgium to include their convicts in a Dutch prison. This was never shown before in the world. The need for a temporary shortage of prison capacity in Belgium and a temporary surplus in the Netherlands was made a virtue. My group understood and accepted this, also because good agreements had been made. But now that such an agreement is being proposed again so shortly after, we do have some questions about the ambitions and vision of this government on this point. In general, my group considers it undesirable that prisoners should serve their sentence on foreign territory. This limits their ability to maintain contact with their families and others from their surroundings, even though wider visitation arrangements are provided. The physical distance makes commuting back and forth more difficult and more expensive. Leave arrangements will be more difficult to achieve and contacts with lawyers are more complicated and probably less frequent. And the preparation for return to society may also be more combined in the last few months of imprisonment, if the prisoner has returned to his own country. The government also recognises that prison placement on its own territory is preferable. However, it appears that she is actively engaged or at least has been engaged in concluding agreements with more countries to house their prisoners on our territory. Besides Belgium and Norway, efforts have also been made to get prisoners transferred from Germany and Switzerland. Is this where the Reverend's merchant wins? This gives the impression to my group that the government is seeking to apply such structures more often or even to become a structural part of the management of judicial establishments. Our question is therefore whether both agreements are welcome only now because of the phased closure of the establishments, or does the government see such conventions as an opportunity to continue to employ more staff and not close judicial establishments? For my group, this would be a bridge too far. We are now dealing with a surplus capacity, partly due to decisions taken by previous Cabinets to significantly increase the number of cells. It is to be hoped that the current forecast model will make it possible to calculate the need better and that Cabinets will act accordingly. The current phasing-out is necessary, and if the Netherlands can temporarily help Norway out of the fire and therefore buy us time to deploy our prison staff better, then my group can support it. There is nothing wrong with the rule of law in Norway. However, the phasing-out process must continue and cannot make way for other agreements over and over again. It then acquires a structural character, which does not do justice to the disadvantages of being trapped abroad. My group would therefore like to see a guarantee that the phasing-out will continue to the level of the forecast model, without any loopholes in order to adjust this delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. This Chamber is asked to agree to a treaty between Norway and the Netherlands, whereby Norwegian prisoners in Dutch cells can serve their imposed custodial sentences. The Secretary of State calls this a special opportunity and cannot wait to implement the deal with Norway, after approval of our Chamber. I find it sad to note that our Secretary of State is so enthusiastic about getting Norwegians into Dutch cells, while our own Dutch criminals are in large numbers free. The PVV says: own criminals first! The PVV would like to know from this State Secretary: how many convicted Dutch criminals, despite their imposed custodial sentence, are in the Netherlands? How many were there in 2013, 2014 and 2015? And how many of these free-running villains have committed a criminal offence once again during the period of their freedom from prison? I am only asking this in this debate, because when I called both the Justice Council and the Public Prosecutor's Office to get these figures, they wanted them and they couldn't give me those figures. However, I hear from several quarters that the number of bad guys sitting on the couch at home instead of in the cell is around 12,000. Perhaps the Secretary of State can mention the actual number and give his opinion on this number. In any case, the PVV finds it appalling that convicted jailers do not actually serve their sentence in prison. Boosting, because with another cabinet policy, for example, Els Borst and Lois van Urk had been among us today. If their killer Bart of You had just served his prison sentence, he couldn't have killed two women. The PVV considers that this kind of fact undermines the entire criminal justice system. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's opinion? I would also like to hear what the Secretary of State has done and is going to do to actually put all convicted criminals behind bars. I'd like to know why thousands and thousands of convicted thugs aren't serving their sentence in prison as the judge ordered. Should the police organise themselves differently? Is the problem with the D.A.'s office? Doesn't the government think it's important that convicted criminals are locked up safely? Hopefully, in reply to the Secretary of State, I will hear that he is going to work to put those already convicted criminals behind bars. As a result, the Secretary of State will have to conclude with me that the Netherlands no longer has a cell surplus, but a cell deficit. I assume, however, that the Secretary of State does not wish to implement this treaty, which means that this Chamber will no longer have to vote on it. In that context, I would like to ask the following. Does the Secretary of State consider that our cell surplus is a direct result of the low probability of being caught in the Netherlands? After all, 75% of all crimes are not solved: 75%! For comparison: neighbouring Germany scores tens of percent better. Nevertheless, I would like to say to the Secretary of State: you should spend your time catching criminals, bringing criminals to justice and ensuring that the sentence imposed is actually implemented, then concluding treaties with Norway about their criminals. Does the Secretary of State share the view that we would have a cell shortage if the Netherlands had a system of severe minimum penalties for violence and sexual offences and if we in the Netherlands were to abolish community service and TBs? I thought the party of this Secretary of State, the VVD, was the party of Law & Order. But the criminals in the Netherlands are actively laughing at the Secretary of State. For safe Dutch streets, the voter must be with my party, the PVV. Isn't it crazy to make our cells available to Norwegians, when the criminals of their own soil aren't even arrested? And when they do get arrested, they often get a laughable community service. And, as mentioned, even in cases where a custodial sentence is still imposed, that sentence is not affected. Yeah, that's crazy. I await the answer to my questions and hope that the Secretary of State will come to the conclusion that we need our cells for our own criminals. Because, as I said, our own criminals first!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u4	I give the floor to a Mrs Wezel, who will make her maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. If you stand here for the first time in the knowledge that not only your fellow senators but also the peoples of the world are looking at you, you may feel pretty small. I'm not big by nature, but if you realize that one of the 225 national representatives can do whatever that word says, you're growing a little bit. I am a fan of the democratic rule of law, of the principle, of the practical implementation and of the work involved. My years at the state's attorney's office and then in the social attorney's office show that, and I hope that during my stay here I will also be a proof of that. But for that matter: see first, then believe. Let me begin by doing my best to demonstrate this in this first part-session. Quite exciting, especially since it is already a proposal that seems very logical, but it may well have a fundamental principle of law, namely that the State, which has the right to rob a person of his freedom, must also ensure the execution of that deprivation of liberty. Let me explain my group's doubts about this proposal. I'll give you some numbers first. In 2014, the number of criminal cases in the courts decreased by 9% compared to 2013. The number of custodial sentences decreased by 16% between 2007 and 2013. The number of prisoners decreased from 17,600 in 2005 to 10,365 in 2014. Good news, you might say, after years of rising crime and crime experience. It doesn't get any big heads in De Telegraaf, but it makes me happy. On the other hand, there is an increase in the number of sentences still to be executed from 10,000 in 2010 to 12.059 in 2015. Given that there are fewer custodial sentences, it is possible to conclude that there are relatively fewer custodial sentences being executed. In the period from 2010 to 2014, 9,662, almost 10,000 custodial sentences were suspended. That doesn't make you very happy again. Punishment is far-reaching and must be done with care and moderation. But imposing sanctions and not implementing them after that is sloppy and bad for the citizens' sense of justice. Can the Secretary of State explain how it is that fewer custodial sentences were imposed in 2014, but that there is nevertheless a significant increase in the stock of custodial sentences to be executed and why almost 10,000 custodial sentences have been suspended in the last five years? What does the Secretary of State think of our view that freed cell space should be used in the first place to quickly effect imposed prison sentences, especially out of respect for the sense of our citizens? Does he share our view that it is strange for people not to carry out our own sentences but to make prison space available to other countries? The starting point is that those who are allowed to imprison people will take care of that themselves. That is why the proposal before us is a very special one. No country in the world offers its prisons to other countries for use. The Netherlands is the exception to that rule. Can the Secretary of State confirm our conclusion? The bill is not entirely unique, because previously prison space in Tilburg has been made available, and becomes, to Belgium. My group was against this at the time. The reply now shows that, in addition to entering into a contract for the placement of prisoners from Norway, there has also been contact with Switzerland and Germany on the rental of prison capacity. The Secretary of State calls the present proposal exceptional. It's starting to look more like usual. My group is very concerned about this. Please explain to the government why the Netherlands is the only country in the world to make its own capacity available to other countries. Are we that smart or are we doing something weird? In addition to our concerns about placing prisoners in another country, we are concerned about the civil law nature of the agreement to which this bill leads. It may well be said in good terms that a prison is being made available and that international cooperation in criminal matters is between two states that can help each other, but the reality is another. "If anything looks like a duck, swims like a duck and quacks like a duck, it's probably a duck." In the debates on the availability of cells to Belgium, it was simply called rental. In the view of the SP Group, the hiring of cell capacity and staff is a civil agreement, even if this agreement has been agreed with a government agency of a country. After all, the performance of the contract is enforceable before the civil courts. By renting part of the prison capacity, there is a partial privatisation. The rent income is used to eliminate the deficits. The SP Group has previously asked who took the initiative for talks with Norway and Switzerland. These questions have been answered by the communication that it has been discussed in discussions with Norwegian and Swiss authorities. The question remains who initiated these talks between the then Secretary of State for Security and Justice and the Norwegian Government, respectively the Swiss authorities. Did we make an offer or did others ask us for it first? In the reply, the responsibility for monitoring the Norwegian prisoners who are about to end up in Dutch cells was placed entirely in the hands of the Norwegian authorities. The involvement of the Dutch authorities would be limited to ensuring sufficient cell capacity. However, the SP Group believes, with the College of Human Rights, that Dutch territory is still present. The implementation is carried out in practice by Dutch employees. Now that people on Dutch territory are under the supervision of Dutch staff, the Dutch State remains ultimately responsible for ensuring that the situation is in accordance with national and international guarantees. If the Secretary of State feels otherwise, I would ask for a firmer basis than what we have heard so far. As with the population of Belgian prisoners in Tilburg, it is expected that Norway will also largely accommodate illegal foreigners in the Netherlands. The countries are free to do so because no agreement has been reached on this. I ask the Secretary of State if that is true and what is the reasoning behind it. Is it based on the fact that illegal foreigners in Norway have little connection with the country and are likely to cause less problems in another country than in the case of indigenous prisoners? If so, how pure is that reasoning? Does an illegal alien in detention have less right to protection than any other inmate? Does the Secretary of State object to the fact that most of the detainees in Veenhuizen will consist of illegal aliens, or is this the Secretary of State at all? If you have any cell space left, renting out to another country is obviously an option for this cabinet. As I said, we should first use that space to execute prison sentences imposed here. And there is another option: why not use this space to tackle another pressing problem, for which the Netherlands at least has its own responsibility? Here's what I'm talking about. On 1 April 2015, there were 2,266 Dutch and non-Dutch eligible for consular assistance in foreign prisons. These are also children and relatives of the Dutch here. These Dutch people are sometimes, quite often, in appalling conditions in foreign cells. You don't even have to travel far for this, by the way. In France, most registered prison suicides are in Europe. In the United Kingdom there is a worrying increase in the number of registered prison battles, sexual assaults and suicides. In the Dutch Juristenblad of 5 June 2015, Mr Buruma expresses his concern about the implementation of the government's changed policy on the assistance of prisoners abroad. He writes that in practice the one paid vicar of the Epafras foundation and the 46 volunteers who visit prisoners abroad as spiritual caregivers. However, according to the new rules, active, benevolent expats living near a prison and working as volunteers of Reclassing Netherlands should be sufficient. Buruma writes that with the new policy it seems as if we are no longer giving the prisoners the quality of the human gaze. He continues to write: "We cannot measure the damage suffered by someone who loses all hope. But the policy dictates that he may be forgotten by everyone. What does it actually say about the quality of the government if it has so little left for compatriots in difficulty?" Is it true what Buruma writes about the cuts in the subsidy on Epafras and is it true that according to the new rules, active, benevolent expats who live near a prison and work as volunteers of Reclassing Netherlands? An investigation by the National Ombudsman Brenninkmeijer in 2013 into the so-called Law Transfer Enforcement Criminal Judgments (WOTS) found that the Netherlands is too rigid to retrieve prisoners from abroad. Can the Secretary of State tell us how many WOTS requests have been made in recent years? Are the prisoners allowed to make a WOTS request with the help of a lawyer? Has anything changed since Brenninkmeijer's report, given that the number of takeovers of execution is around 250 people a year? If so, can the Secretary of State explain this? What does he think of our suggestion that freeing cell space should be given priority for bringing home Dutch prisoners abroad, especially those of whom we know they are trapped in circumstances that we would not accept in our country? It is clear that reflection on this bill by our group has given rise to some fundamental questions in our view. We therefore look forward with great interest to the answers of the Secretary of State and the reactions of other groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mrs Wezel. Congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background as well. You studied law in Amsterdam. During your studies you were a student-worker at Van Driem Lawyers in Amsterdam, secretary of the parliamentary survey group Bijlmermeerramp and staff member at the Directorate-General for Law Enforcement at the Ministry of Justice. After your studies, you became a police policy officer at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Haarlem. During those years, you also followed the programme of master practice neurolinguistic programming. For those of you who think this has something to do with computers: the opposite is the case. It is a methodology for training, coaching and communication improvement. In 2005, you transferred to the Public Prosecutor's Office in Alkmaar, where you became senior prosecutor and were responsible for conducting investigations. In 2006, you became Deputy District Attorney in Alkmaar. From 2008 to 2012, you were senior secretary of mega fraud at the Functional Parket of the National Public Prosecutor's Office. Here too, you combined your work with obtaining a university master's degree; this time in the field of compliance and integrity management. From 2012 to 2013, you were Deputy District Attorney at the Functional Parket. In that capacity, you were in charge of FIOD, police and inspection SZW investigations. Two years ago, you made the transition to law, where your career had initially begun. You first worked at law firm Loyens and Loeff..................................................................................................................... Here you practice a broad practice, ranging from liability law and civil servants' law to bankruptcy law. You have also been appointed by the Legal Assistance Board as a specialist victim attorney, allowing you as a lawyer to assist victims in criminal matters. This Chamber will follow your operations with great interest. We wish you every success in doing so. We will suspend the sitting to allow colleagues to congratulate you on your maiden speech.
