ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister, his officials, all the spokesmen and all those who are watching or listening. Speaking time is, as we know, two minutes and I am the first to give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. 100 years ago, in April 1915, Armenian genocide began. 250 intellectuals and leaders of the Armenian community were arrested in Constantinople and later murdered. What followed was not a pen to describe: men were taken out of the army, disarmed and murdered. Women and children were sent on barren trips through the desert to Syria. More than a million Armenians, Syrian Orthodox and Pontic Greeks were killed. This genocide has been unanimously recognised three times by the International Association of Genocide Scholars. Raphael Lemkin, Pool of Jewish origin, who invented the word "genocide," said that he first described the Armenian genocide. An integral part of genocide is not naming, forgetting, not talking about it anymore. Then the objective of genocide has been achieved: the people, the victims of the genocide, did not exist. Through the Rouvoot motion, which the MP Koenders voted in favour of, among other things, the House of Representatives recognised the Armenian genocide. The European Parliament is now calling for recognition and has done so on several occasions. All this must be seen against the background of ISIS. The UN wants the International Criminal Court to open a case against ISIS on Jezidis genocide. In the same area, the descendants of the surviving Christians are being driven out and massacred again, and we are still recognising the genocide of 100 years ago. I have three questions. The Minister says there is broad international agreement. Firstly, what is this international agreement? Will the Minister tell us that's genocide? Secondly, is the Dutch government going to Gallipoli on 24 April to listen to the celebration that is being celebrated there and that was never there? Thirdly, if there is an issue, does the Minister stop talking about the prison camps in North Korea, because North Korea does not recognise them, but does it make them 'a matter'? Is she talking about "the issue" of ISIS abuse, because ISIS does not recognise that human rights are being violated? I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[read the Government's replies;]] [[noting that ministers were and are present at the commemoration of the Holocaust and Rwandan genocide;]] [[calls on the Government to be represented by the Prime Minister or a Minister at the commemoration of 100 years of Armenian genocide,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Voordewind and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34000-V-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. The history of humanity is unfortunately filled with mass murders. On our own continent, the Holocaust, the murder of 6 million Jews, is perhaps the most terrifying example. In this tragedy of inhuman proportions, more than 107,000 Jews were sent from the Netherlands to the concentration and destruction camps. That was three quarters of the Jewish population at the time and more than 95% of it was murdered because of its ethnicity. That is why it is perfectly logical for the Netherlands and the Dutch Government to recognise and consider the genocide on our continent. It is part of our history and the lessons we draw from it determine our future. The recognition of this genocide is therefore due not only to the Jewish people but also to ourselves. According to NIOD, there is consensus among historians on three major genocides: the Holocaust, which killed 6 million Jews, the Rwandan genocide of 1994 with 800,000 deaths and the Armenian genocide of 1915, which cost the lives of between 800,000 and 1.5 million Armenians. Recognition of genocide that matters must come first of all from those who have contributed to it. That is why the motion for a resolution by Mr Rouvoet is such a good motion, because there is not a party in this Chamber, I suspect, who denies the Armenian genocide. Of course, there are parties that have sometimes had candidates on their lists who trivialize or even deny events. That was the case with the CDA, the Labour Party, D66 and even with the PVV someone has sometimes skated at this point. In almost all cases, this has had to do with a Turkish background, and that is the point. We all recognise the Armenian genocide that took place 100 years ago this year, but what does it add to demanding that of the government? It is not a party, it has no historical responsibility and it has no historical relationship with events. What does it add for the Armenian community in the Netherlands, which has been welcome for generations and has built up its existence here? Is it official demand for a position of the Dutch government to be embalmed on their souls or do they have the most need of real recognition? True recognition comes, of course, from those who do have a relationship with it, namely the Turkish Government. The question is whether an explicit ruling by the Dutch government contributes to the process of recognition and acceptance by the Turkish side. Like the government, I don't think it is. I choose real recognition and it must come from the Turkish Government. That is why I also choose the Chamberwide motion of former Christian Union foreman Rouvoet. This means that, at times when this is possible, the Netherlands will discuss recognition of the Armenian genocide bilaterally with Turkey. Certainly this Turkish government, which is increasingly reactionary and revolutionary, needs to be addressed. That is the right path and not the closing of the shutters. In doing so, you are not offering to the Armenian community in the Netherlands anything that they cannot get from Mr Omtzigt or from me, namely recognition. After all, I speak of 'the Armenian genocide', the VVD speaks of 'the Armenian genocide', and I think practically the entire parliament speaks of 'the Armenian genocide'. Genocide is committed to a people, and as a representative of the people, I say on the eve of the commemoration: this was genocide. And I'll add: never again!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u4	I understand that Mr Ten Broeke says that it is even more the responsibility of the Turkish Government to recognise the Armenian genocide in this way. But if the Dutch Government addresses the Turkish Government on this issue as requested in the Rouvet motion and in the European Parliament's motion in 2005, does it have to talk about 'an issue' or should it simply say: this is genocide, we think it is genocide and we are talking consistently about 'the Armenian genocide'? That is the question that lies on the table here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u5	As I have indicated, I am perfectly comfortable with the wording in the motion for a resolution. It talks about 'the issue of the Armenian genocide'. Everyone in the parliament is free to talk about 'the Armenian genocide', as I do, and Mr Omtzig is also free to talk about 'the Armenian genocide'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u6	That would be a nice reversal if I were not free to talk about "the Armenian genocide." That would be a very nice turnaround, because that is the case in Turkey. But should the Dutch Government not simply say that it considers this a genocide, because there is almost unanimous agreement on this in the scientific community? I have already referred to the three unanimous motions tabled by the International Association of Genocide Scholars. Shouldn't the Dutch government stop using the term "the matter of"? Otherwise, it will also have to talk about "the issue of the prison camps in North Korea," because they are not recognised by North Korea, and "the question of alleged abuse by ISIS" because they are not recognised by ISIS. Is that how we are now going to shape human rights policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mr Omtzig denies that the importance of recognition lies primarily in the presence of the representatives of the people. At least that's my opinion. So I am talking about 'the genocide', Mr Omtzigt talks about it, almost everyone in this Chamber does. The question is whether an explicit ruling by the Dutch Government will then contribute to that process of recognition. The acceptance of the Turkish side is, in my view, the essential, jumping point here. Both for the recognition on the Turkish side and for the process of acceptance of the groups involved, it is very important that the Dutch Government should continue to press for this in its bilateral contacts with Turkey. The current wording in the motion for a resolution offers the best guarantee for this. That is why I am voting in favour of this motion and I am satisfied with it. I think it's a sensible motion. There's a reason why he's been supported in a Chamberwide way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u8	I am pleased that Mr Ten Broeke, on behalf of the VVD, warmly supports the motion of former MP Rouvoet. I do have to correct it on the operative part. The operative part does not refer to "the question of the Armenian genocide," but to "the Armenian genocide." I assume that he still embraces that motion with retroactive effect after this correction. My question is this. The VVD Group spoke in the VSO about 'the Armenian genocide', not 'the issue of the Armenian genocide'. That is what Mr Ten Broeke is doing again today. That's to be commended. Does Mr Ten Broeke not think that it would be a support in the back of the Armenian community worldwide if the cabinet also spoke of 'the Armenian genocide'?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u9	My whole contribution was also focused on making that distinction, to indicate that I, and my party and I believe almost all parties here, are simply talking about 'the Armenian genocide'. They do so despite the fact that a number of parties may have had some problems in their own history with candidate lists. I acknowledge that Mr Omtzigt's party is not one of them. The question then is whether challenging the Dutch Government to speak about this in these explicit terms will contribute to that recognition that we seek. I repeat to the government that this does not contribute at the moment when bilateral contacts between the Netherlands and Turkey are so rushed. That is what I meant to say just now by leaving the word 'issue' in there. I would like the Netherlands and many other countries, in their bilateral contacts with the Turkish Government, to continue to press for a process to be set in motion, the result of which is the recognition of the Armenian genocide at some point. I think that is the biggest contribution the Armenian community can expect from us anywhere in the world, but also here in the Netherlands. That is why I believe that current policy is the right policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u10	I would ask Members to limit themselves somewhat both in the questions and in the answers. We have a long day to go. I do not want us to be out of date at the first debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u11	I have another follow-up question. Does the VVD not recognise that the Armenian community could have been helped by the actual implementation of the Rouvet motion? It calls for 'the Armenian genocide' to be raised in Turkey, not 'the issue of the Armenian genocide' to be raised. The latter would make it easy for the Turkish authorities to ignore that. Mr Rouvoet's motion refers precisely to 'the Armenian genocide'. The moment you make it negotiable, you make meters. We don't do that when we keep talking about "the issue."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u12	The Rouvet motion calls for "the Armenian genocide" to be discussed. This is done by the Dutch Government. If the discussion of 'the issue of Armenian genocide' continues with the Turkish government, I think it is of greater and greater value than that we would challenge the Dutch Government to take a position that might make that conversation impossible. I still believe that the Armenian community has not only here but everywhere in the world the most to governments that continue to advocate its cause and recognition. This is the best way to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mr. Chairman. Again more than ten years ago, the Routet motion was unanimously adopted in this Chamber. It called on the government, within the framework of the European Union's dialogue with Turkey, to constantly and emphatically raise the issue of the recognition of the Armenian genocide. That was a good motion and it was also extremely important that this Chamberwide was adopted. Even after the answers received from the Minister last week and today, I remain concerned about the implementation of this motion. The Minister states that the motion is supportive of the government's efforts to make this issue negotiable in Turkey. However, in a letter to the Chamber, the Minister constantly writes about "the issue of Armenian genocide." That is strange and that suggests that the Minister considers that there has been no genocide. This is remarkable, not least because the Minister himself recognises that there is a high degree of consensus among scientists on the events in Turkey. I hope that the Minister will take my concerns away from this point of view and that he will also address the question of what the Netherlands has brought into the European debate in order to bring the purpose of the motion closer together. On 24 April it is exactly 100 years since the Armenian genocide began. I am pleased that the Dutch ambassador of Armenia, who is in neighbouring Georgia, will go to the memorial meeting in the Armenian capital Jerevan that day. As I know, that is the first time, and that is to be welcomed. Finally, I hope that a member of the government will be prepared to attend one of the commemorations of the Armenian genocide in the Netherlands. There are many of them. I therefore support Mr Omtzigt's appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr. Chairman. On 24 April it is indeed remembered that 100 years ago the Armenian genocide began. 100 years ago, an estimated 1.5 million Armenians were killed by the Ottoman Empire. 100 years later, many people are not allowed to speak freely about genocide. 100 years later, millions of Turks grow up on the assumption that no genocide has taken place. Of course there was a war and of course there were horrors over and over again, but there is no question of a conscious genocide to destroy the Armenian people, according to Turkey, a NATO ally. The Group of the European People's Party finds this unacceptable. Does the Cabinet also acknowledge that this is unacceptable? For this reason, my predecessor, Mr Rouvoet, tabled a motion in 2004 in which not only the Armenian genocide was clearly recognised, but also the government was specifically instructed to bring the recognition of that genocide to Turkey's attention. However, the picture has emerged that the sharp edges of this motion have been removed, partly because of the written reply of this minister. For example, the government talks about "the issue of the Armenian genocide," expresses doubts about the opinion of the scientists and indicates that it is not appropriate to talk about a legal recognition of the genocide. There is also no member of the cabinet to attend the memorial. This gives the impression that the Netherlands considers the relationship with Turkey more important than recognizing the genocide. In order to correct that image, I co-signed the motion of College Omtzigt and submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in 2004 the Chamber held the Rouvet-movement c.s. (21501-20, No. 270) on the recognition of the Armenian genocide;]] [[Whereas the International Association of Genocide Scholars has also recognised the Armenian genocide;]] [[calls on the Government to stop using the term "the Armenian genocide issue" and to speak only of the "Armenian genocide,"]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34000-V-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, so far, I have heard all my fellow Members say that what has happened with regard to the Armenian genocide is terrible. At least there is no discussion about this. Fortunately I also hear saying that it is good to remember, in any place, here in the Netherlands and in other countries. Everyone thinks so. We too are disappointed by the two important things that colleagues have already said. The first is the recognition of the genocide. I heard the Minister's questions in his answer, and I also heard it in Mr Ten Broeke's contribution, whether it is a contribution if the government simply acknowledges that it is genocide. I think so, because I read in the FAON's letter: 'We must also feel how painful it is to experience the cold atmosphere that the government is radiating towards the Armenian community'. We can discuss words, but this is how it happens on the other side. Let us leave the discussion of these words behind us and acknowledge that it is genocide. Let us just use that word, then we will get rid of that terminology and experience the warmth that one deserves. The second point is representation. France sends President Hollande, we send the Dutch ambassador to Georgia. I call on the government to simply send a representative at government level. This also recognises the seriousness of the situation, the pain, the grief, the suffering that has been suffered there. That is why we have co-signed the two motions tabled, one by Mr Voordewind on recognition and the other by Mr Omtzig on representation. I hope that the government will leave behind the cold approach as it is experienced in any case and adopt a generous approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mr. Chairman. On 24 April 2015, the 100th anniversary of the Armenian genocide will be held. After 100 years, this Armenian genocide is still felt by the Armenian community as if it had taken place recently. The pain and grief are not only about the victims but also about the lack of recognition. When it comes to the recognition of this Armenian genocide, this cabinet takes a double attitude. Why is the cabinet not talking about "the genocide" but about "the issue of genocide"? That is the question that has already been asked. My question to the Foreign Minister is this. What is the situation with regard to the appreciation of this darkest phase of Armenian history? What exactly is in the way of recognizing this genocide as genocide? Does that indeed have anything to do with the pressure of the Erdogan administration? Unfortunately, that terminology is not the only pain point. The Dutch delegation to the 100th anniversary in Jerevan is that too. The PVV thinks it's a gotsp that the Netherlands is only represented by an ambassador. The Netherlands denies, even insults the memory of this terrible period for the Armenian people. I say this because the cabinet knows very well how to show respect and respect to other countries, even if that is completely out of place because such a country has barbaric laws, Sharia, gross human rights violations on a daily basis, public decapitations and corporal punishments etcetera. I am talking about Saudi Arabia, where we sent the highest possible delegation we know. The King and the Foreign Minister went to that barbaric country to pay their respects to the deceased King Abdullah. That is why I now call on the Cabinet, on behalf of the PVV Group, to send the highest possible Dutch representation to the memorial in Jerevan: the King and the Prime Minister. Let them go to Jerevan to represent us, the capital in the shadow of Mount Ararat, the capital of the first Christian nation of the world. Two more points. The PVV does not want the Netherlands to respond to the invitation of the Turkish commemoration of the Battle of Gallipoli. That commemoration will take place on the same day as the commemoration of the Armenian genocide. Can the Minister say something about that now? Finally, I would like to mention the demonstration of hatred that took place in Almelo last year. The PVV is concerned that this has not been dealt with strictly enough. The assessment of the declarations shall not be completed. We fear that the danger of new hate demonstrations has not been reduced. How's the government gonna prevent that? Finally, I shall table two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is broad scientific recognition that the Armenian genocide must be characterised as genocide;]] [[Noting that the current government is not talking about "the Armenian genocide," but about "the issue of the Armenian genocide";]] [[calls on the Government to use the term "genocide" instead of "the issue of genocide" in all relevant government rulings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands only sends an ambassador to the 100th anniversary in Jerevan of the Armenian genocide;]] [[whereas it would be of due respect if the Netherlands were represented by the highest possible delegation as in Saudi Arabia;]] [[calls on the government, the Netherlands, to be represented by the Prime Minister and the King at the 100th anniversary of the Armenian genocide in Jerevan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beertema, Mr Wilders and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34000-V-60]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beertema and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34000-V-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u17	I apologise for the serious overrun of my speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u18	I was just about to tell you. Thank you. The Foreign Minister has indicated that he can reply immediately. We are very grateful to him for that. He'd like to have all the motions. That's why we're waiting for a single moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u19	Madam President. I thank the Chamber for the input during this VSO. I very much understand the questions and the input on this important issue. The issue that we are discussing today remains, understandably, a matter of concern. I think this applies to many people in the Netherlands, including the Dutch Government, and certainly to the Armenians. I have said it before and I would like to repeat it today, with conviction and emotion: what happened in 1915/1916 is terrible. The suffering that was caused at the time is great. This year marks the 100th anniversary of these dramatic events. Let there be no misunderstanding: the Netherlands deeply regrets all the victims who fell in 1915. We are also crystal clear about this. This is about the great catastrophe, as the Armenians call it in their own language. However, it is not up to the cabinet itself to indicate these historical events with very inhumane consequences. It is not up to the cabinet to determine whether genocide has been committed in the legal sense. This point has already been raised here. Moreover, an opinion by the Cabinet on the applicability of this term at present would not contribute to the necessary acceptance and processing of the past by both countries. That is and remains primarily for both countries themselves and for both populations themselves. With this there is the best processing of the shared past. From my work in the field of conflict mediation, I have for many years been deeply convinced that this is how you move forward with this kind of profound problems and emotions. But let there be no misunderstanding: I share those emotions and, on behalf of the Dutch Government, have expressed my horror at the events. I would remind you once again of the good article by Thomas de Waal, which was recently published in Foreign Affairs. It says that the use of the word 'genocide' has become so dominant in the meantime, it is even politicized and forced here by means of motions that the charge of the word can even hinder the rapprochement and dialogue between the two groups and countries about the events. I therefore stick to the interpretation given by previous Cabinets to the 2004 Rouvet motion. The motion supports the government's efforts to make the issue of the Armenian genocide possible bilaterally and through the European Union and to speed up the rapprochement between Armenia and Turkey. The cabinet believes that the choice of the highest accredited representative of the Netherlands.............................................................................................................................................................................................. The Netherlands has decided as one of the first Member States of the European Union and indicated that it will be represented in Yerevan. This underlines the importance which the cabinet attaches to this issue and to a respectful and dignified commemoration of these terrible events. The cabinet wishes to express its condolences to the families of the victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr. Chairman. We have asked three specific questions. This is a story that can also be read in writing. I'd like to get those three questions answered. They have also been put in part by Mr Voordewind and Mr Beertema. What is this international agreement on which everyone agrees? Is that what happened to genocide? Is the government going to Gallipoli on 24 April, the commemoration that Mr Beertema also asked for? If it is an issue that should also be recognised by people who feel related to those who committed it, will the Minister now address the question of the prison camps in North Korea, the question of the alleged crimes of ISIS and others, and the question of the possible violations of women's rights in Saudi Arabia, or will the Minister continue to mention these matters by name?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u21	I can answer all three questions with no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u22	The answer to the question of international agreement is not a no. I just want to know what happened internationally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u23	I am certainly prepared to go into more depth about that question, but then I really need a little time. This isn't about nothing. It is a matter of continuing written consultations. Mr Omtzigt has asked a number of questions, including about North Korea. He may be convinced that this minister, who sees human rights as the cornerstone of policy, is of course very frequently concerned with the circumstances of the people of North Korea. I recently talked about it with various groups in South Korea when I was there. We are dealing with human rights, in the sense that we are discussing them there. Of course we will continue to do so. For the commemoration in Gallipoli, the Dutch government did not receive an invitation. Mr Omtzigt probably knows that the Netherlands was neutral during the First World War and is therefore not involved. As far as the general agreement is concerned, this is the general agreement on what I have also expressed here today in the direction of the Armenians, namely the terrible events of 1915 and 1916.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u24	Mr. Chairman. A point of order. We've asked this question five times. Is the Minister now saying that there is general agreement in the academic world on these terrible events or on the fact that it was an Armenian genocide?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u25	It is not for the government to judge whether there is a scientific consensus or not. I think Mr Omtzigt is misjudging something here. A government is there to govern, to properly express what happened 100 years ago. It is not for the government to judge a scientific discussion on whether or not there is consensus, or on the position of scientists. Science is free, and it's a good thing it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u26	Once again, I would like to point out that we are doing interruptions in two. I'll keep a close eye on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u27	I'm confused. The Minister now indicates that there are scientific discussions but in the previous sentences he spoke of agreement regarding those scientists. How can we teach our students in schools that there has been an Armenian genocide and that this foreign minister, who knows the facts well, still does not want to acknowledge it on behalf of the cabinet? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u28	I really think it is a bad idea for students to take away everything I bring to the attention of the Armenian people, the Armenians, about what happened in 1915 and 1916 and what the Dutch Government is expressing its emotions about, if we do not think that is important at all. It is a question of genocide. A motion has been passed on that. We'll do it. I have just indicated that there is a scientific debate on this. I think there is agreement that terrible events have taken place during that period. I even referred to the Armenian term for that. There's no difference of opinion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u29	Finally, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u30	However, this Minister does not clearly recognise that there has been an Armenian genocide. The Minister is afraid to take that word in his mouth, and I think that is a counter-signal to the teachers who are trying to make this clear to their pupils. How can the Netherlands allow the highest possible representation, the King and the Prime Minister, to be present at the death of the King in Saudi Arabia, a country with which we all have reservations, if possible, while sending an ambassador to 100 years commemoration of the Armenian genocide? How can the Minister explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u31	I note that there are differences of opinion in this Chamber. I also heard groups talking which consider it important that we should now have the Netherlands represented in Armenia, the country concerned, by the highest Dutch representative on the ground. I honestly don't think we should compare apples and pears. One case concerned the death of the Saudi Arab king. We have had a debate on this in this Chamber, and I do not have much to add to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u32	All things short and well, but the cover-up term "the matter of", of course, makes sense of what happened at the time. I hear this minister say that the government is not there to make historical judgments, but to express and to contribute appropriately to and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u33	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u34	The Minister then spoke warmly about representation in the person of the Ambassador. With all due respect to the Ambassador, there is, of course, quite a difference, hierarchically speaking, between representation by the Prime Minister and the King in that barbaric state of Saudi Arabia, on the one hand, and representation by an ambassador, with all due respect to the good man or woman, on the other hand, at the commemoration. Isn't that obvious to this minister? That's a different order, isn't it? How does that fit in with the proper way of showing respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u35	I think it is legitimate to disagree on this. I have said what the Dutch Government's opinion is on this. I want to watch for one thing. I heard Mr Voordewind just now say that it is good to make the matter clear to Turkey and that this was even one of the reasons why he tabled that motion. So we are going to play with politics, and then we are going to express the genocide in a certain way. I have just distanced myself from that, because of a long and personal experience in how you deal with conflicts. You can't punish a country and file motions here to force something that has to be done in a different way. The Dutch government does not in any way distance itself from the seriousness of the events in 1915 and 1916. That is precisely what we agree on. There's no doubt about that. As you know, the Genocide Convention was not signed until 1948. There are all kinds of legal elements that complicate it, not to mention the issue of the Armenian genocide. I regret the impression that the Dutch Government would not share the feelings of the Armenian people as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u36	Very briefly, Mr Beertema, finally. I would remind Members that we should have completed this debate ten minutes ago. I really want to call on you all to limit yourself in your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u37	My last short question, to which I would like a brief answer. The Dutch television viewer, the Dutch voter, really does not understand this explanation at all. He just wants to hear a clear, clear answer to the question why we send the highest possible representation to the funeral of the king of Saudi Arabia, and only one ambassador to the memorial in Jerevan. That's what the voter wants to know. I'd like a brief, clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u38	I have just said: if the Prime Minister is invited, the Dutch Government will find representation by the highest representative of the Dutch Government on the spot at this important meeting the appropriate level. Apart from France, almost all countries do so in the same way; the Netherlands is therefore no exception at all. Many countries are sending the parliament; at least the parliament is represented there and not the government. The reasoning for this is the same as the reasoning used in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u39	The Minister is now going to give an appreciation of...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u40	Mr President, I was addressed personally. I think that should also lead to a reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u41	I would like to suggest that you do not oppose the fact that the Minister will first appreciate the motions and finally that there is room for a single question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u42	Of course, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u43	Thank you. In the light of what I have just said, I should like to raise the motion by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Voordewind and Mr Van der Staaij in part No. 58 in which the government is asked to be represented by the Prime Minister or a minister at the commemoration of the Armenian genocide of 100 years ago. In the motion in part No. 59 states that the International Association of Genocide Scholars has also recognised the Armenian genocide and calls on the government to stop using the term "issue of the Armenian genocide" and to speak only of the "Armenian genocide." In the light of the way in which the individual Cabinets have carried out the Rouvet motion in the past period, I will also advise against this motion. For the reason I have just mentioned, I consider this amendment to be unwise. In Mr Beertema's motion on item No. 60, co-signed by Mr Wilders and Mr Voordewind, invites the government to use the term "genocide" instead of "the issue of genocide" in all relevant statements of the government. I have just explained why the government is different in that respect. I would therefore advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 61, tabled by Mr Bertema and co-signed by Mr Wilders, states that it would be of due respect if the Netherlands were represented by the highest possible delegation as in Saudi Arabia and invites the government to have the Netherlands represented by the Prime Minister and the King at the 100th anniversary of the Armenian genocide in Jerevan. I have just mentioned that it is important for the Netherlands to be represented there. I have heard very well what the representative of the SP, Mr Van Bommel, said about this. I think this is an important sign from the Netherlands. I would also like to appreciate that as such. In that light, I would advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u44	That's clear. As I said, Mr Voordewind has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate this very much, because I was addressed for a moment about the 1948 Genocide Treaty. I would like to point out to the Minister that this is a factual finding that the Holocaust also took place before the Genocide Convention, in 1940 to 1945. That can't be an argument not to talk about the Holocaust, can it? The Minister says that there is agreement among the scientists and talks about the atrocities, but there was no agreement on the atrocities; there was agreement on that Armenian genocide. Does the Minister recognise that the agreement was about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u46	I have raised two points, first of all the reference to Turkey. I would like to make it very clear that this reference has nothing to do with the way in which the Dutch Government handles it. It's about the business itself. I have also made it clear why I think it is so important to speak this morning on behalf of the Dutch Government in the direction of the Armenian people. Secondly, I am aware that the treaties in which genocide is referred to were signed in 1948. You also know that certain references were made to the Holocaust in 1939-1945. The third point I would like to raise concerns events and genocide. I think there is indeed great agreement in the literature. The famous book by Samantha Power deals with the genocides. The whole structure starts in 1915 and eventually leads to the treaties you have just mentioned. There is therefore no difference of opinion. A large majority of scientists say there was genocide. Everyone says that at least terrible events have taken place. Then there are all kinds of discussions, which Members also know. They're about the First World War, about how Russia was in it. It is clear that there have been many deaths on all sides and that you can interpret the different events differently. I say again on behalf of the government that it is not up to a government to take a position in such a discussion. It is not for a government to say what is true and what is not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-3.u47	I thank the Minister for his answers. We will vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled during this VSO.
