ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Violence in the azc's and emergency shelters is increasing, including in the Netherlands. These threats and violence are regularly caused by tensions arising from clashes between religions. For example, Christians in particular are increasingly threatened, spit and prevented from certain public spaces and are forced to wear a headscarf. The Dutch Police Association even suggests that Christians should be heard separately, just as Germany is considering this at the moment. I therefore have the following questions to the Secretary of State. The Christian Union has been pressing for years to tackle and register religious oppression. Is the Secretary of State prepared to register such incidents? What is the response of the Secretary of State to the police union's suggestion to separate shelter? Isn't it crazy for words to facilitate intolerance and religious hatred? What action is the Secretary of State going to take to stop this religious oppression, including in the wake of these tensions by Orthodox imams and Muslims from Rotterdam, for example? So far, the victims are being transferred from the azc's and the perpetrators remain seated. That's totally the reverse world. Is the Secretary of State prepared to apply a zero tolerance approach, to actually tackle the perpetrators and, for example, to place them in foreign detention?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mr Voordewind is right to point out the signals that have recently come mainly from Germany, but which, of course, also occur on a smaller scale in the Netherlands. These abuses are not good and we all want to avoid them. If you apply for asylum in the Netherlands, you come for security and freedom and then it is not up to you to hinder or endanger the security and freedom of another person. Let's get that straight. If you apply for asylum in the Netherlands, you will also find yourself in a Dutch asylum seekers centre and you will have from the very beginning to adhere to Dutch laws and Dutch standards and values. That is why we also make it clear in an asylum seekers' centre that there is no place for discrimination and therefore no place for harassing another in the exercise of his faith. You may pray to your own god, and you may not hinder another from praying to his or her god. That doesn't change the fact that things can still happen, because there are a lot of people sitting on each other's lips in a small space. Adaptation to a new environment may cause tensions, but it is important that something happens and that we report it if it is incidents that break the law, which can have consequences for the status of aliens if they are convicted. If a person has been convicted of serious cases, this leads to a refusal or withdrawal of a licence. All incidents are recorded, but it is very difficult to record what the background was when someone flies at someone else, whether it was a mix or whether one or, for example, his faith or nationality did not like the other. We have a record of whether an incident has occurred on religious grounds, for example. Fortunately, the police union has now nuanced the statements. I do not think it is appropriate to classify people in categories and to cover them by category in advance. You are in the Netherlands and this includes Dutch freedom and the Dutch respect for the choices of others who are different. So I don't feel like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u3	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I understand his bet is firm. We have had these debates with the previous Secretary of State. He said that it is indeed recorded, but not specifically on religious violence. However, what we are now dealing with in the footsteps of Germany is precisely this religious violence. Is the Secretary of State now prepared to register this more specifically so that specific action can be taken against this kind of intolerant behaviour? According to foreign law, the status can indeed be refused if there is a crime. Has it occurred before that a status was refused and, if so, should we not move faster towards such measures to tackle religious intolerance quickly at the root and protect the victims rather than the perpetrators?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u4	People have been refused on the basis of criteria of public order, but I am not ready for a moment or because they have been convicted on the basis of crimes or offences they have committed in an asylum-seekers' centre. So I can't give you that answer. Of course, we see an increase in this type of incident just because we see an increase in the number of people living in an asylum-seekers' centre. That will increase proportionally. As far as registration is concerned, there is no question that we do not know that such things are happening. The fact of all these reports is crucial for us, including for the follow-up and the criminal prosecution. However, there are also incidents of a non-religious nature. So the added value to have it also broken down into a table, I would see most of all if we were unaware of this phenomenon now, but we do have it. We address this in a targeted way and appeal to people that they cannot impose their faith on another.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u5	It's kind of a circular argument. The Secretary of State says that he pays attention to the phenomenon, but then it has to be registered more specifically than is currently the case. We know that the asylum seekers' willingness to report is low. This has been researched by Deloitte before. My plea is therefore to appoint an independent confidant to whom the asylum seekers can report. After all, there is still the idea that, if people report anything to the COA, it can turn out negative for their possible status. Is the Secretary of State prepared to appoint an independent confidant so that we can get a better idea of what is happening? Once again, I am in favour of registering more specifically so that we can use specific policies to combat this type of intolerance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u6	I am sympathetic to that idea, if that particular registration would indeed lead to a better fight against it. We're now recording the nature of the incident. The problem, of course, is that such an incident can be based on several reasons. Then it's gonna be tough. Before you know it, we're mainly working on a registration pattern, while we should be working on combating the tensions and tackling those who cause the problems. On the question of the independent confidential person, I would like to come back to a debate later. I do not know whether that should be the solution, but it should not be the case that people who report mischief suffer in the asylum procedure. Those who wrong another should be at a disadvantage, not the other way around. I'm taking that signal seriously. I'll see what's the best way to do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mass fighting, stabbing, child abuse: the sad list of violence in asylum-seekers' centres is getting longer and longer. The PVV once again calls on the cabinet to close the borders and not to allow any asylum seekers. What you won't let in, you don't have to get out. I would like to get a response, because we know that the Secretary of State can't even get criminal asylum seekers out of the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u8	A list of incidents is by nature only longer, never shorter, because what has happened remains on it. As time progresses and there are more people, there are also more people in absolute numbers who do not enrich society, who can be a problem and also need to be addressed. They must answer for their actions before the courts. If their actions are serious, this should result in the refusal or withdrawal of the asylum authorisation. However, there are many others in asylum-seekers' centres, most of them who come here purely for security and freedom and who do not cause problems for others. I would not want them to suffer from the actions of those others by definitively closing the borders for those who have to flee war.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u9	It is truly inconceivable that people who say that they are fleeing their country because of violence commit violence in this country, which may want to offer them hospitality. It's not just about violence against each other. It's also an alleged sexual assault on a young girl last weekend in Almere. It is also about the position of Christians and other minorities in azc's. For the VVD it is very clear: these people do not deserve a place in this country. What measures does the Secretary of State intend to take, or would he first like to explore, to prevent these people from continuing to pose a threat to our society and to our public order?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u10	I agree, of course, with Mr Azmani that this is unheard of, that the behaviour he has mentioned cannot and that it must also lead to refusal of asylum. In the incident of the assault mentioned by him, people have also been put into custody. If they are sentenced by the judge and the sentence is serious, it will also have consequences. We encourage the willingness to report to asylum seekers' centres. The policy is that COA personnel also report in case of incidents. I also had a meeting with the police today to see how best to ensure that the resolution of disorder also leads to the burglary and registration of the persons who caused it, so that we can keep an eye on that file. The signal must, of course, be, and we must therefore be able to follow that consequence too, because if you are misbehaving here, you are seriously jeopardising your chances of asylum and there is actually no place for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u11	In connection with the latter, I would like the Secretary of State to use somewhat more forceful terms than "disrupting asylum opportunities" and say that asylum is excluded. The SGP strongly advocates such terms. The Secretary of State reports that people are coming here to seek security. Then some cause an unsafe or threatening situation for others. Surely we cannot exclude measures when choosing between deporting, relocating, detaining or whatever as soon as possible? It is too easy for me to rule out the relocation of perpetrators or the absence of a group based on belief.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u12	To answer that last question immediately: relocation takes place anyway. In the event of a disturbance, the unsub is usually moved to another location. The problem is not finally solved, but it is something we are certainly doing. This is not excluded; it is often a standard measure. I understand the point about using stronger texts and I would like to share that, but I also have to abide by the law. The law has a number of requirements to be met before an application for asylum can be refused on the basis of public policy criteria or criminal offences. That's why I'm expressing myself as it is. If the Court wishes to strengthen this, within the scope of international treaties and European law, I will discuss it with the Chamber. We have to note here first that the Chamber thinks and wants to tighten up. We shall be able to understand that in the debate tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u13	You're fleeing to the Netherlands because you want to live in a rule of law. If you have no respect for the rule of law, no respect for the fact that men and women have equal rights and no respect for freedom of faith, then you have no place here in society. What consequences do we draw? Fortunately, in the last sentence, I hear that the Secretary of State is coming up with a proposal. Will the Secretary of State come forward tomorrow with a proposal that always transfers the perpetrators and never the victims? A proposal in which there is protection for people who are abused and not implied protection for those who have committed the abuse? Does he want to ensure that people who are guilty of this discrimination for which all the other refugees have just fled, because it took place in their own country and they could not live freely there and could not exercise their faith, cannot come here? Does he want to make these measures clear to the Chamber tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u14	I fully share Mr Omtzig's intentions. Others have also indicated this. I shall enter into consultation with the Chamber on this matter. The Chamber may ask me to do anything within the law, and so do I. I will inform the Chamber of the exact way in which I am doing this. When I hear the Chamber now, it is a question of whether this can be done under the current legislation. We will have to look together to see if the majority of the Chamber wants to amend something in there, because the Chamber cannot ask me to go beyond what the legal provisions now allow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u15	Mr Omtzigt, I would like briefly to ask your group's second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u16	The CDA Group is in favour of legislative changes if they are necessary. The government is the legislator. We are in favour of making it easier for someone to refuse asylum status after someone has behaved badly here. We are in favour of putting people in foreign detention on these matters. Mr Voordewind gave the latter just as an idea. Is the Secretary of State prepared to propose specific measures of this kind to the Chamber and to make them known in a letter to the Chamber in the near future?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u17	We'll have an AO on this tomorrow. The willingness is there, but I think it is good if we are in the AO more specific to see if and, if so, how I can make targeted proposals. We can also look at whether there is a proposal that also bears fruit in the Chamber. It is important that we should then be able to live up to it and implement it instead of just finding it. I think this is the most productive Question Time I have ever been allowed to take part in.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u18	Maybe I can contribute to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u19	No doubt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u20	The situation is also very worrying for the Labour Party. The incidents that have taken place have already been appointed by colleagues. I would like to know from the Secretary of State whether and how the comparison with Germany is going. Do the incidents in the Netherlands take place on the same scale? Does the Secretary of State agree with us that separating people from religion cannot be a solution here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u21	The comparison with Germany is difficult, because I have to rely on reports in the media. I have less opportunity than in our own country to verify exactly what is happening. What appears there in the media is more serious than what has so far appeared in the media and what we register in our asylum seekers' centres. It's hard to compare. Apart from that, every time something happens, it's too much once. What might happen there, I would like to avoid here. The solution to this does not seem to me to lie in the fact that people could not live together. So I would also like to go to the extremes to avoid this being necessary. I understand they're looking at it from the police organization purely in order. When groups are more homogeneous, it is easier to arrange. However, I do not think that is the solution we should offer. In the Netherlands, freedom and the principle of non-discrimination apply directly and for everyone, including in an asylum-seekers' centre. You have to take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u22	In addition to the fact that abuses, especially when there is violence, always need to be tackled, I am glad to hear the Secretary of State say the same; I would not have doubted that either. I think one thing is most important, namely the context. To what extent can the Secretary of State now, and otherwise perhaps tomorrow in the debate, give us an insight into how big this problem is? How should we compare this with other incidents occurring in other places in Dutch society in totally different situations? How big is, relatively and absolutely, the problem in the Dutch azc's?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u23	Of course, there is no competition. An incident within an asylum seekers centre involving asylum seekers is as serious as an incident elsewhere in the country where no asylum seekers are involved. That's why I focus on preventing any individual incident or incident. At the moment, I have no reason to believe that the percentage in azc's is much higher than in the rest of society. However, the circumstance in which people live can lead to greater tensions for many people who don't know each other in a small space. I can imagine that if there are 150 of us living in a small space, there will also be tensions. That's right. However, we take it very seriously when something happens and we have to do everything we can to prevent it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u24	I thank the Secretary of State for coming to the Chamber and for his answers.
