ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u1	The letter on influx and reception of refugees in the Netherlands has been added to the agenda. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and the Secretary of State for Security and Justice. Thirteen speakers have spoken for this debate. Speaking time has been fixed in advance. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Klaver van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Can our country handle it? The Dutch want an answer to this question. I don't doubt it. We have been in favour of a task like this before, not so long ago. In the past we have had many more people in the shelter. As far as I am concerned, the question is clear: do we want to be able to handle it? The answer to that question is clear to me: yes. But I'm worried about it. Because, honestly, I say to Mr Zijlstra: are you looking for reception facilities for refugees or are you looking for voters? I say to Mr Wilders: be honest, help with solutions, or are you looking for trouble? What we politicians say and do matters. Our language builds support. Our policy solves problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u3	I say to Mr Klaver: tell him honestly, when will it be enough? How much can we add to the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance? Is that 10, there's 100, there's 10 million? Where is your limit, I ask you, before you take the measure of others, the VVD Group, my group. Where is your own border?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u4	In the past, we have had 80,000 people in the shelter. We haven't touched that yet. So I think we can at least grow to that point. That's twice as many people as there are in the shelter right now. So for the time being, Mr Wilders, we are not at that tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u5	I repeat my question and I am going to repeat it as often as you allow me, Mr President, until I receive an answer. My question was not how many we had last time. My question was: where is the limit for the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance? When does GroenLinks say "enough is enough"? Or says GroenLinks: we never say that, and even if there are a million, they are all welcome in the Netherlands? So, sir, Clover, where is your border?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u6	I don't really know anyone who's for refugees...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u7	That's not an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u8	No one is for war and violence. No one's for it when people have to run. If people are to flee war and violence, Mr Wilders, I think we have a responsibility to take those people in. Can we all do this in the Netherlands? No. I think that's impossible. Is that why you need to work together at European level? Yes. Then we can cope with a large stream of refugees. When Mr Wilders asks how many people we can receive in the Netherlands, I say: I do not know where that limit is. But I do know that in the past we have had twice as many people in the shelter as we have at the moment. In the end, the question is: how many do we want to be able to handle? I know you're saying no one at all. Because you don't care if people run from war and violence. But I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u9	The answer is therefore crystal clear: the GroenLinks group does not set a limit, dares to set a limit, and therefore allows everyone in the Netherlands. That is what we are hearing today in Africa and in the Middle East. Fortunately, your party is not that big, but if that would happen unexpectedly, the whole of Africa knows that the leader of GroenLinks thinks that everyone should come here. Again, they're not just refugees. People come from safe countries and are indeed migrants rather than refugees. But GroenLinks says: come to the Netherlands. You're destroying the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u10	Mr Wilders is doing another Wildersje here, that is what we call it. That was a well-prepared interruption. He knew exactly what he was going to say. I didn't say everyone's welcome here. We have rules for that. If people really run from war and violence, they have the right to a residence status here, and I think those people should get that status too. That is what I said, Mr Wilders. What you want is to completely close the gates. It can't even be! I think it's a nice try, but it can't even be done. You don't want to let anyone in, not even people running from war and violence. That's a choice I don't make. That is very clear and the people of Africa and the Middle East should hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u11	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u12	As I said, no one is happy with large groups of refugees, because no one is happy with war and violence. But we can handle it. We can handle it if we learn from the past and not make the same mistakes again. The first important lesson is: be realistic. People come as long as they have to flee from Assad's bombs and the atrocities of ISIS. Whether they're elderly or child, Muslim or Christian, rich or poor, they're coming. And let us be honest, it has been said here for ten years that asylum seekers are no longer welcome. Asylum search centers are closed. The Rutte I cabinet closed 6,200 shelters. They've been cut off. Was that wise? I'll ask the cabinet. Some still pretend that we can close the borders, as if people are not fleeing violence, but looking for breast enlargements and eyelid corrections. Right now, we have 36,000 people in the shelter. A capacity of 25,000 was taken into account for this year. That is the problem of Orange. For 2016, the cabinet is based on 14,000 refugees less than what it is taking into account this year, and that is not possible. Cabinet, be honest: how many people do you really expect in 2016? Then today we can work on it and not continue to go after the facts as we have done in the past week. Then we can make sure that next year we get things in order, that there is sufficient small-scale reception. About this shelter: how exactly are we going to organise this small-scale shelter, in line with the Voortman motion adopted? How are we going to prevent municipalities, as has now happened in Hoorn, from being told no on their offer for small-scale care while they are being asked to organise crisis relief under great pressure? How are we going to prevent people from being sent around from gym to gym, from crisis shelter to crisis shelter? In order to avoid this, the COA must know at the beginning of next year what is going on in terms of budget, and not get an ad hoc or ex post budget. Does the Prime Minister agree with me? We need to learn from the past. Not everyone goes back. The migrant workers in the 1970s, the employers and the VVD were fond of it, would only stay temporarily and then go back, just like the Yugoslavs in the 1990s. But be realistic: many of the guest workers have remained. Two thirds of the Yugoslavs stayed here, and also many Syrian refugees will remain. The civil war won't be over tomorrow. People are gonna build a life here. Therefore, from day one, we should not exclude integration, work, language, education, and inclusion. Or have we forgotten the lessons of Fortuyn? How is the Minister of Social Affairs going to shape this? Be careful. Testosterone bombs, breast enlargements, eyelid corrections; it's like a debate on health care. Tsunamis, currents, suction, tidal waves, dams; it's like a debate about water management. I told you, words matter. Words make images, images affect people and people get scared. Fear, however, doesn't solve anything. Words matter. That is exactly why Ab Klink was against cooperation with the PVV. I like that I can quote him on the day that the Prime Minister is in office for exactly five years. Congratulations on that. Five years ago, the Prime Minister was working with the PVV. Meanwhile, he is working with the PvdA, but what Ab Klink said remains true. Policy must be able to bind society. If the unity of policy is constantly at stake because the motives of the parties that cooperate politically are completely different, then that affects the Netherlands. It'll affect society. It can't be. We're all politicians. We all have ideas and ideals about society. That's good. It is part of the debate that these differences become apparent. However, we also have a shared responsibility, namely to consciously change words, to choose examples carefully, not to deliberately explain cabinet measures in such a way that one's own voter is satisfied but the citizen is confused. So please do not repeat the previous debate, in which Mr Samsom said that fewer people should be taken care of in the region while Mr Zijlstra said that there should be more. Moreover, the negotiations are now in full swing. What is the government's view of relaxing visa requirements for Turkey? Will the Prime Minister support this in return for more reception of refugees in the region, in Turkey? And more broadly, how does the Prime Minister view negotiations with Turkey at all? What does he think Europe has to offer? I'm rounding up. It is part of our role as politicians, especially when we suddenly face major challenges, to be honest, realistic and careful. I'm sure we can handle this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u13	It's even worse with GroenLinks than we thought. It has just become clear that Mr Klaver says, even if there are a million: come in, you are welcome. Mr Klaver's party, together with his comrades of the SP and the Christian Union, has also submitted an initiative paper stating that if you were rejected as an asylum seeker, and you are therefore illegal in the Netherlands, the government should not only pay for it but also offer people a humane shelter, paid by the Empire. If that is true, and it is true, because it stands here, then there is the list leader and the party leader who says: I am not only setting no limit to the number of asylum seekers, but if asylum seekers have been rejected, I will also give them bed, bath and bread and decent care. In other words, it doesn't really matter if you get a status or not, we'll take care of you. Well, I can tell him: then all of Africa will come to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u14	Mr. Wilders, this was your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u15	It's enough to respond to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u16	I think so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u17	Mr. Wilders really lives in Lilalalaland. You can legally reject someone and tell them to go back, but in practice it just doesn't always turn out to be possible to send people back. It's harsh to say: figure it out, disappear into illegality, we don't take care of you. I don't choose that. This is a bigger problem for our society than just providing care for these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u18	The conclusion was that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance believes that people, asylum seekers, should continue to come. GroenLinks does not want to set a maximum. Now it is added that if you are here as an asylum seeker and your application is rejected, and even the judge says that that rejection is justified, people still have to be taken care of and paid for. Mr. Klaver, you are insane.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u19	I'd rather be crazy and human than antisocial.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u20	I note for the Acts that I do not think it is so neat to add such words to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u21	Mr. Chairman. Parts of the Middle East and the head of Africa are on fire. Terrible images and stories fly across the world. Where there's war, people run. We saw that in former Yugoslavia, Afghanistan and Iraq. That's what we're seeing in Syria now. People leave home and fireplace to get their families to safety. Most people like to stay close to home, in a place with the same habits and customs. But another part of the population is heading in our direction, especially now that reception in neighbouring countries is still so inadequate. This has a huge impact, first and foremost for all those millions of people who are looking for a safe place to stay, but certainly also for countries in the region that want to accommodate these people, and for countries here. Questions arise among people, discussions arise and opinions flow in all directions. It is then important to prevent people from competing against each other or being played against each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u22	In a previous debate, I asked Mr Roemer the following question. I'd like to ask it again. He says how painful it is when people have to leave war zones. I can't even disagree with him. But if, for example, these people leave Syria and go to Turkey or Greece, are they already in safe countries? Then we don't have to feel sorry for those people if they don't stay there, but come here? They then come through six safe countries before knocking at the door in the Netherlands. Then we can say: you were already safe, so go away because you are not a refugee but a migrant. That's not antisocial, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u23	There's been a major international conflict. Mr Wilders also played a role in this, because he was in favour of bombing in that region. If there is such a great conflict, we should not be surprised if it creates flows of refugees. In my speech, I will gradually indicate how we can best cope with this. It is, of course, the easiest to say that we must ensure that the conflict ceases to exist, but at the same time it is the hardest to do. If the conflict ends, Syrians will no longer come to the Netherlands. The second step is, of course, to ensure very good, safe areas in the region where people can be taken care of. There are not enough of them at the moment. The third point is that in such a situation you cannot say as a population of an individual country: we do nothing at all. An individual country cannot solve all the problems alone. That is why international cooperation is needed. The SP has made proposals for this. Three years ago, we proposed the establishment of asylum centres on the borders of Europe and hence the procedure. We could already see the flow of refugees coming. We have already proposed a distribution key for the European countries. We must not look away from a conflict for which the Netherlands is jointly responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u24	According to the SP, is Greece a safe country?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u25	The countries of Europe are safe countries. That is why they must agree to this together. However, Mr Wilders also mentions Turkey as a safe country. I don't know if he's seen the footage from Turkey lately. In southeastern Turkey there is just a war going on. Let Mr Wilders also look at the situation in Jordan and Lebanon. There is a lack of food and drinking water. Kids can't go to school there. So there's a lot to be done there. And yes, that is why, at European level, we must accept the people who come to Europe in a decent way. Then the Netherlands should not say as an individual country: we are building a large fence around the country and the rest of us will figure it out. If we had followed Mr Wilders, we would have taken military action in Iran. Then the flow of refugees would have been much greater. You can't look away in a situation like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u26	I understand from Mr Roemer that I am responsible for all the wars in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u27	No, I'm not saying that. You have to listen...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u28	But apart from that... the SP-chooser doesn't want that at all. Those people were already safe in the countries they came from. They're not pathetic refugees coming here. It is often young men filled with hormones who enter this country. There's no room for them at all. They're not supposed to come in here and they're costing us money. And there are those SP'ers on the stairs in Almere with the message "come in all." That won't be necessary at all. Why does the SP do that? Her voter doesn't want that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u29	No, seriously, Mr. Wilders...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u30	Mr Roemer and Mr Wilders, it is no use talking through each other. Mr Roemer has just had the opportunity to say something. Now Mr Wilders has the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. Besides, I'm not responsible for all these wars. I will come back to what Mr Roemer said. I wasn't talking about Turkey. I was talking about Greece. Greece is a safe country. I have a picture here from a week and a half ago. At that time we were in Almere flyers against the asylum-seekers' centre there. That picture shows all the SPs who were there. They stood there with large posters that said: refugees welcome, more refugees to the Netherlands. I don't understand anything about that. The SP-chooser does not want that at all, but the refugees who come to the Netherlands were already safe in the countries where they come from. So the people who come here aren't pathetic refugees. It's often young men full of hormones who enter this country. They have no place here and they shouldn't be here. They're gonna cost us a lot of money. That's where the SPs are, on the stairs in Almere. Come on in, everybody. That won't be necessary at all. Why do they do that? The SP pickers don't want that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u32	A third of all refugees from Syria are children under the age of 18. Why is Mr Wilders stigmatizing this whole group? There's been a major international conflict. We're not looking away. We are taking part, even though we were not even in favour of the bombings in the Middle East. We have always warned that it is going the wrong way. We have pointed out that this leads to refugee flows. In fact, we have warned that these bombings are counterproductive. I wish we'd all done that. If we had learned from what happened in Iraq, Afghanistan and Yugoslavia, we would not have had these discussions here. We must solve this problem together now, but Mr Wilders is not part of it. We must ensure internationally that a de-escalation policy is pursued in the Middle East rather than an escalation policy. This means that we need to improve reception in the region and not look away. For the Netherlands, this also means that it must contribute to the reception of refugees coming to Europe. It's possible. We can do that, and we must do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u33	I'll just finish up. I can only conclude that, despite all of Mr Roemer's finely complex geopolitical words, the SP says that the borders should not be closed but open. The SP says we can handle it, and we want to. She's gonna demonstrate for it. Last month 13,000 people entered this country. If I'm right, that was the number in September. If we go on like this for a few more years, it'll cost us billions. We could have spent that money on pensions for the elderly and on care, but the SP says, Ali, come in with your servant; we'll give you the billions. I don't understand that at all and the SP-chooser understands that even less.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u34	A lot of people are right to worry. They are really worried about a lack of work and living space. Let these be subjects for which Mr Wilders was jointly responsible under the Rutte I cabinet. Mr Wilders may not like that I repeat this, but the dismantling of social housing has started under Rutte I. In fact, Mr Wilders wanted to go one step further; he was in favour of selling houses. He wanted even fewer homes in social housing. The waiting lists would have been longer. Mr Wilders can look away and blame others, but I had hoped that he would come up with real solutions. He says the boundaries must be closed. That's completely unrealistic. What's he gonna do at all these border crossings? There are huge waiting lists. There are queues with trucks. Logistics The Netherlands already sees Mr Wilders coming. Illegality will only increase. What Mr Wilders wants is impossible. It is easy to say that for the stage, but they are not solutions. This week is the European summit. This is mainly the subject of discussion at the summit. That's good, too. There must be answers and measures. I see that the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister are already going through those measures. That's very nice. They'll get to Europe faster. It's fantastic to be able to use these new techniques! Creating stability in the region or at least in parts of the region is the best way to stop the flow of refugees. If we have learned anything over the past 15 years, it is that military interventions have been counterproductive without a political solution. We have seen this in Iraq and Afghanistan, and we now see that in Syria. If we really want to do something about the large number of people fleeing Syria, then we need to work on less war and more diplomacy. There is no point in more violence without a view of a political solution. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that our commitment to the European Summit should be aimed at achieving this? Further escalation will only lead to an even greater flow of refugees. Does the Prime Minister agree with us that there should be an arms embargo on conflict areas? If so, is he prepared to talk about this at the summit and to do everything possible to achieve it? Is the Prime Minister also prepared to do everything at the summit to make active policies to finally tackle funding flows to IS areas? Good reception in the region is very important. We are all in agreement on this, but is there sufficient investment in it? Overcrowded camps, little food, a lack of clean drinking water and no education for children is the order of the day in the camps in Lebanon, for example. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that the money available for reception in the regions is too little? That the international community is lagging behind, but that additional investment should also be made from the Netherlands? How is it that we have been talking for months about better reception in the region and that nothing is still happening? Can the Prime Minister give a concrete indication of how reception in the region is being improved at the moment? There will now be a list of safe countries, including Turkey. In that country there is normal war in the southeast and there has been a horrific attack in the last week. It is a country with enormous tensions among the population and increasing repression from the government. Can the Prime Minister explain to me why Turkey is still on this list? Let us use this European summit to appeal to the Turkish Government for its role in internal conflicts and human rights. A number of years ago, the SP proposed the creation of asylum seekers' centres at the borders of Europe. Now they're here, the hotspots. I am glad that the importance of this is recognised, but it is going very slowly. Can the Prime Minister state what progress has been made and can he urge the European summit to set up these places quickly so that a fair distribution of refugees across the EU can be possible? If you want to get a grip on refugee flows, these are three important points. I'm going to our own country. Most people like to show solidarity with people fleeing wars, but there are also a lot of concerns; legitimate concerns. Concerns about large numbers, concerns about insufficient participation and questions about the consequences. There are also concerns about the huge waiting lists for a home in social housing, concerns about finding a job when so many people are all looking for work at the same time. These concerns are perfectly justified. A lot of people have been getting their hands on them year in, year out of the blows of the crisis. Public services have been hard hit in recent years. The waiting lists for affordable homes get longer and longer, people don't all get the care they need anymore and thanks to the huge cuts many people have lost their jobs. Over and over again, it's been the same group of people getting hit. The arrival of so many refugees feels like a drop in the bucket for this group of people. It is unbelievable to talk about extra jobs if you know that 100,000 people have become unemployed in the last three years and the prospects are still not good. It is also unbelievable that there is talk of more rental homes, while 10,000 homes from social housing have now been sold out. Of course, we need to work quickly on more living space. Creating 10,000 extra homes is a first step, but of course far too little. Last week, the Labour Party talked about 100,000 homes. Is the cabinet prepared to increase this number considerably? What we should not do is make people second-class citizens and prevent them from being integrated. What needs to be done is to stop the sale of social housing by corporations and convert the landlord's tax into an investment obligation. Also with temporary living space, the waiting lists remain for people for far too long. While some of the people are very concerned, another part of the people welcomes the refugees. These are extremes, but we must ensure that these people do not face each other. Creating acceptance means that people must be taken seriously and something is being done for their problems. That's not what we've seen in the last week, that's not what we saw in the village of Orange. By putting the residents of Orange on the line like a thief in the night for a fulfilled fact, the Secretary of State has put the support on the line, not only in the Orange, but throughout society. Residents want to be taken seriously. Residents should be given a say in where and what the reception will look like through residents' committees. Provisions that are likely to become overloaded need to be improved; think of overcrowded buses and bad internet. By improving the facilities for everyone in our country, we remove some of the annoyances. I would also like to see asylum seekers' centres using local businesses. In this way, reception benefits everyone. Let us take these proposals as a starting point in the search for new shelters, so that we provide a place for people who need it very badly and at the same time take people's legitimate concerns seriously. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u35	Mr. Chairman. Resistance tours. Conspiracy theories. Breast enlargements. In this atmosphere of distasteful examples and wrong suspicions, we are looking for solutions today. Solutions for the reception of war refugees in our country. I am abhorred by the PVV, who is trying to stir up fear among people, but I am as horrified as I am of parties who, out of electoral fear of Wilders, insult him and imitate his policy of polarization.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u36	How we feel about each other, at least about each other's ideas, is a public secret. Mr Pechtold began his speech by saying that he was horrified by a resistance tour. Can I ask him what's wrong with going into the country, to support the people who have something against azc's by going out on the street, by using a democratic right of petition and by going to talk nights? What the hell is against resisting in such a way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u37	Mr Wilders, you have just asked colleagues where the border is. For me, the border is reached when politicians call for resistance against war refugees. For me, the limit has been reached if politicians think they should be democratically elected and then call the gremium in which they sit a fake parliament. You shop in democracy when it's nice to you. You use it with a one-man party if you think you can use your influence and kick it if it's not convenient for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u38	This isn't an answer again. It happens more often than not the last time I saw Mr Pechtold, if he doesn't know a good answer. I'll ask the question again. Maybe now he can answer with a little focus. Mr Pechtold, at the beginning of your term you said that you were horrified by a resistance tour, that it even gave you a disgusting taste in your mouth. Mr President, I really do not think that is possible. Mr Pechtold is allowed to spout all his strange ideas here; no problem. But is it wrong, for heaven's sake, to enter the country in a nonviolent and democratic way and to support the people in the Netherlands from Purmerend to wherever in the Netherlands who say "I don't want azc"? What is wrong with going to a talk-in evening, to speak in there and to stand up for the people who do not want azc in the Netherlands? That is a proper democratic way. If it makes you unsuitable as a representative of Democrats 66, it says more about you than about the PVV and all those people who support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u39	Well, Mr. Wilders is getting a little excited! In a panic, you have to do that. You've been a so-called party for several years. You're in two municipal councils and yes, you'll have to go to all those other 398 municipalities in person to do something. If you, Mr Wilders, just had the guts to form a real party that people could vote for, your local representatives in that city council could speak. They could do their job in local democracy. You think this is the local city council, the national city council. Mr President, Mr Wilders and I differ.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u40	Madam President, once again there is no beginning of an answer. Mr. Pechtold is beating around him again and bringing in all sorts of things. I merely asked a question about the first sentence of your speech, Mr Pechtold. Then you said that a resistance tour of the country made you dispassionate, nonviolent and democratic, that it gave you a disgusting taste in your mouth. That gives me a disgusting taste in my mouth, from someone who represents the Democrats 66 and says to all those people in the Netherlands, there are millions; millions think that we should fight this in a proper way and that this should not be allowed. It gives me a disgusting taste in the mouth. You've become the regent of this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u41	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u42	You have become the great regent who lectures people on the streets from an ivory tower. You should consider this very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u43	I do like to see Mr Wilders standing there so huffy. All those years we've been trying to ask him for facts or answers, we've been getting the answer that we could go down the tree and the like. Now Mr Wilders is going to take part in democracy and have debates and he is going to get all excited about it. Now people are going to ask for answers and facts. That's a lot of fun. Learn from it. Keep up the good work! Mr Wilders has been around for about 25 years. He's learning so slowly. Go on a little bit more. Come on! Mr. Chairman. On our shoulders, on our 150s, both coalition and opposition, there is a responsibility to work together to find solutions, to work together to support society and to stand together against those who stir up unrest and divide. Only in this way can we ask municipalities and people to stick their necks out by providing shelter and taking refugees into the village, city or community. Today, the central question for me is how we help the war refugees and how we support Dutch people. The violence of war in Syria, the dictatorship in Eritrea and the actions of the Taliban in Afghanistan have led to more refugees than ever since the Second World War. The reality is that people keep coming and that some of them may never return to their homeland. We must be well prepared for this. Last year, the cabinet said there would be 65,000 refugees. There was a panic in the Trêves room, but measures, no matter what. We're not even at half that number yet, but the shelter is already failing. I talked to municipalities that have to go to Ikea themselves to get 250 pillows or, for example, washing machines. The COA has to make sure every night with tricks that people don't sleep on the street. So we're badly prepared. We need to catch up now to get things moving. I distinguish three phases: the care primarily for real war refugees, the care for good care with support from the population and the care for direct integration. Most asylum seekers in Europe and the Netherlands are fleeing war violence. These people deserve our protection. A European approach is crucial to this. The beginning is here. The first European registration centres are essential to manage the many asylum seekers, but it is still far from enough. My group wants more European notification centres at the borders and that all asylum applications can be dealt with there. If people are not entitled to asylum, they must be returned quickly. If they do, they must be spread fairly across Europe. What is the status of this proposal, I ask the Prime Minister. In the Netherlands too, we still have a lot to do for better registration. The crisis and emergency shelter is intended for people fleeing war and violence, but something goes wrong like in a sports hall in Vlissingen, where I was last Sunday, not only 150 war refugees from Syria, but also 30 people from a safe country like Albania. My group wants people who are unlikely to be eligible for asylum to be taken out more quickly, to be able to go through the procedure more quickly and, if necessary, to be expelled more quickly. In this way, they do not occupy places that are for war refugees and so the basis of support remains in the Netherlands. What does the Prime Minister think of our proposal that people should leave a short tape when they start recording and have it analyzed by interpreters in order to determine where someone comes from earlier? Is he willing to make extra people available for this? A country like the Netherlands has a duty to take care of people who are fleeing. It is crucial for this to be achieved by supporting our people. The breaking of appointments, as in the Dutch Team, must not happen anymore. Fortunately, the D66 proposal to respect agreements with municipalities has been adopted almost Chamberwide. The coalition party Party of Labour also guaranteed on Monday that this would not happen again. Does the Prime Minister agree with us? Emergency and crisis care needs to be improved. Now there's still a lot going wrong. Refugees must get on the bus every 72 hours, from crisis relief to crisis relief. The nearly 200 refugees in Vlissingen were at their fifth 72-hour shelter. How does the cabinet intend to put an end to this drag of refugees? Is the Prime Minister prepared to allow small-scale reception for municipalities offering asylum seekers to live in empty schools, for example? DOD has operational barracks. Why aren't they deployed to the maximum? In addition to registration and reception, we must not waste any time integrating this group. Every day asylum seekers sit on their hands is a lost day. People who speak the language have two to three times as much chance of a job. That is why my group wants language courses to be started in emergency care. Is the Prime Minister prepared to make money available for this? People also need to be able to get to work faster on their own level. Mr Asscher's umpteenth working group is well-intentioned, but what about the implementation of my motion on the recognition of diplomas? I'd like to get a reaction to this. Joining society is the most important thing. Yet yesterday we received a letter that shows that refugees are treated separately: not assistance, but living money. How's this going in practice? Can this be done with legislation? With these measures, do we not cast the problem before us? I also like to get a reaction to this. I do not want to participate in a competition: who has the most sober reception proposals, because they would supposedly stop refugees. It is my simple belief that it is still better here than in the destroyed areas of Aleppo or Kobani. I hope that today we can overcome these differences and that we can work together to find solutions, work together to support society and stand up together to those who want to divide the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u44	Mr. Chairman. Last few weeks the refugee debate passed us in all its facets. Or rather, not in all its facets. We saw above all the extremes. We saw the opponents of an asylum-seekers' centre who foamed the responsible driver's head with the most horrible indulgences. We saw the people who with cuddle bears and children's drawings welcomed the refugees. We saw the man who in blind anger put his camper on the road to block the bus with refugees. We saw the one politician who, with a well-found one-liner, defeated the other politician's plan and we saw the other politician who knew for sure that one politician had not understood it. Those who recently watched the Netherlands simply through television and the newspaper got the impression of a deeply divided country where residents and politicians are directly opposite each other with sharp differences of opinion. However, anyone who gets a chance to look a little further and listen, sees and hears something quite different. He sees the foamy opponents standing over a map after the hearing with the alderman to look for a place in the municipality where it would be more appropriate. He hears the woman with children's drawings who admits that she was actually very afraid to go into that sports hall with all those strange Syrians inside. He sees the man who takes his RV off the road late at night to let the bus through when he hears that there are many children in it. He hears the politicians who sigh at the end of the talk show that they also have no clear answers. This reality is not caught up in one-liners or smug TV fragments. It is the reality of the struggle that rages in all of us. On the one hand, the desire and the sense of duty to assist people fleeing and, on the other hand, the growing concern about the numbers and related questions. Can we all house them with the shortage of homes? How much chance do they have of a job with high unemployment? How stubborn will the integration of all these people be? Let us try to do justice to that reality here in this Chamber by going on the search for the best possible way of dealing with the task for which the flow of refugees is asking us, without pretensions or claims on their own. Let us listen to each other and to the sounds outside. Let us learn from mistakes and strive for improvement. This starts with the provision of adequate reception: crisis care, emergency care, asylum reception, regular reception. All of them need to be faster and more and more large. The last few weeks that went almost well, with the Dutch as an ugly stain on a further admirable logistical achievement. In the Netherlands, refugees are still not sleeping on the streets and the many administrators, the professionals and all those volunteers who have provided them deserve a huge compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u45	I'd like to pick up that glove. One of the things that a lot of people run into is the flow into the housing market. Last week there was a debate in the Chamber about living. The Labour Party made a proposal in that debate which we were pleased to receive: in the short term perhaps 100,000 homes should be discussed. These include prefab houses, container houses and so on. To my great horror I now see a letter from the Secretary of State which talks about 10,000. At present, the number of 10,000 is not even the number of status holders in asylum seekers' centres. Is there an agreement with the Labour Party today that we are inciting the cabinet to a significantly higher number than 10,000?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u46	Oh, yeah. I believe that we made that agreement last week with each other and with the SP, which was indeed in favour of it in a debate that started with differences of opinion and ended with a certain consensus. Yesterday, a motion was also adopted asking the cabinet to work towards the 100,000, starting with the 10,000 the Secretary of State spoke about last Friday with the municipalities and the IPO. That is only a first step on the way to many more homes, in all shapes and sizes. Because it has to be fast, they are also houses of a sober size.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u47	Sure, I recognize that last one, but 10,000 is a little different than 100,000. At the 100,000 we are talking about 2019 or 2020; I do not know what numbers will be realized before or after that. You can say that it is a first step, but if those 100,000 are put on the long track, we deny that we now have a major problem. Does Mr Samsom agree with me that we should send the message to the cabinet that this amount of 100,000 has to be achieved before what is now being suggested, in 2019 or 2020? We really need to get over the 10,000 today. Otherwise, we will have a problem and the waiting lists will remain forever. Then we have not even regulated the flow for the status holders who are now in the asylum-seekers' centres.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u48	I am assuming that we did so yesterday by adopting this motion. With this the cabinet is instructed to continue working after that 10,000. If Mr Roemer wants to be even more explicit, of course we are looking at it, but I had the impression that we had a good deal of agreement yesterday. The cabinet will also respond to the motions. In one of the motions, the government was asked to change the priority policy for refugees. Those two go on together. If there are enough homes, that's possible. I think we're looking for it in that direction. If Mr Roemer wants to be even more explicit, we will see if he can do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u49	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u50	We're not here yet, not by a long shot. The search for new shelters is still hampered by the COA's assumption of too large locations. They are convenient and efficient, but devastating for the support. That was what went wrong in Enschede, for example. A few smaller locations there are really a much better option than that one big one, which is now planned there. In my opinion, COA should take another look at that. The same applies to other places. In line with the GroenLinks motion adopted yesterday, the cabinet must now really start from smaller locations. However, the largest bottleneck is in space on the regular housing market. 15,000 people with a residence permit are waiting for a home in asylum seekers' centres. Those apartments aren't here. So houses need to be built at a rapid rate, without too much fuss. The Labour Party made proposals for many new homes last week. The cabinet presented an idea with which municipalities can temporarily host small groups of people from the asylum shelter. The VVD would like to address the problem of displacement and waiting lists as a matter of urgency. To sum that up, yesterday led to a letter from the cabinet which unfolds a plan that allows people with a residence permit to quickly get a home, while preserving the rights that we grant to all our residents. We do not create inequality, nor is it necessary to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u51	I have a question on this, also in response to an answer given by Mr Samsom to Mr Roemer. Did I hear him say that creating more housing, extra housing in any form, is linked to changing the priority position of licence holders? Would that position fall into the law, as stated in the cabinet letter? Is that something the Labour Party advocates?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u52	Yes, because that can be done at the moment when enough new homes are being built. I think it's also in a motion that was held yesterday. That motion was tabled in last week's debate. We discussed last week that you could put an end to the priority position for refugees if you build enough homes. Everyone will have the same chance at a place like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u53	Does Mr Samsom say that additional housing needs to be built first? Not until that has happened could the primacy point. We don't know exactly when that is. Is he linking that up in this order?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u54	Yeah, well, that's gonna happen in practice, too. Changing the priority position requires a legislative change. The construction of homes is already under way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u55	According to the Labour Party, how many additional dwellings would be needed before the priority position could be changed? That question is separate from the time it takes to change the law. After all, this requires great care. It is very much a question of whether we want to go this way, but I want to know where the PvdA stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u56	I think we should go that way, but very carefully. Moreover, there is also a need for customisation. It's gonna be different in every town. There are already municipalities over which houses are. There aren't many and they're not in the outskirts of town, but they are. So you can deal with the allocation quite differently there. However, it is a question of current practice. There are 15,000 people in an azc in a small room, while they have a residence status and are entitled to accommodation elsewhere. We're gonna take care of that as soon as possible. As soon as possible, because there are now no houses available in large parts of the Netherlands. If we have built houses there, you could refer the people to that and offer them a place in a prefab house, a converted office, or housing that could be realized in another way quickly. You'll be off that clamp that we've all created. I would very much like to remove that clamp and I hope that Mr Slob will do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u57	It is always nice when Mr Samsom is standing here, because then there will be a lot more clarity about the letters sent by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u58	I am glad to be of service to Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u59	I can hear him say very clearly that there will be no division. We're not gonna create two kinds of people in this country. I also hear him say very clearly that no one is going to live in a container until the law is changed. I think that is very important. However, the letter from the Cabinet states that sober housing is offered, that everything is provided in kind and that people receive living money instead of welfare benefits. That sounds a bit like second-class citizens, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u60	If that sounds like it, it's the wrong sound. It's not meant to be like that. Right now, people are in an azc, even though they already have a residence status. They get a room and board from the COA and on top of that get about €50 to €60 per week living money. They have no cost, because the food and the like is taken care of for them. That is the current situation. It's an undesirable situation, because these people are entitled to a home. Mr Pechtold says that we need to change the law to house people in a prefab house or another temporary home. That is not the case. You can just offer people a place to live. Students are already eager to use it without legal changes. Other groups do the same in the Netherlands. It's about simple, quick building, homes that meet all the requirements of our time. People can be accommodated in it. The Secretary of State for Justice sent a letter last week on "the municipal self-care arrangement." He really needs to come up with a better name for that, but I'm going to repeat that now. People are actually still in the same situation as in an azc, but in their own home in a municipality. The COA will continue to pay the costs. After six months, the refugee in question becomes, as it is called, a "rightful person" in the Netherlands and simply goes to the assistance. And if someone has a job, of course he'll go to that job. The latter would, of course, be very nice, but it will often occur that he is initially in a situation of assistance. Such assistance may then be paid either in cash or in kind. The latter is already happening in some groups in the Netherlands. This way you look at a practical solution, without having to change the laws and without having to violate people's rights. You just make sure that there are sober homes where people can quickly get a place and the facilities they need.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u61	I ask a little bit because I feel that something is being masked, that Mr Samsom and I agree more than he has to admit and that he should write his rulers in letters. After all, a week ago, the PvdA said 100,000 homes. The Minister of Social Affairs was all going to organize job plans. Meanwhile, the VVD came up with stories about how it can all be less and the living money can be reduced, so: more sober, more sober, more sober. And finally, there will be the cabinet proposal. The PvdA shouts, "Look, they're allowed to live for free." The VVD says, "Look, we're gonna take all their fees off." From one reality, two images are created for the grassroots. I would like to go back to the civilized agreements on things that Mr Samsom and I both want: no division; we are not going to make camps, as in the past, in which we put people together so that they cannot be integrated; we are not going to bully them on purpose by not teaching them the language; we are not going to put them behind us. So we're not gonna do all that kind of symbolic stuff. Does Mr Samsom agree with me? So there's not a single dichotomy? And when people have status, they just participate, according to the laws and regulations of this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u62	Yes, I agree. It's very simple. If someone gets a house from the municipality and doesn't have to pay rent, he doesn't need a rent allowance. If a person's health insurance is provided by the municipality, for example by a collective health insurance in kind paid by the municipality, which already happens for welfare recipients in many municipalities, that person does not need a care allowance. You're picking that out again. I am glad to hear the Minister of Social Affairs talking about plans for integration and jobs and also hearing all kinds of plans from the VVD, which I sometimes and sometimes less agree with. I always agree with that minister of ours by nature. I also heard an idea from D66 yesterday: buses must be stopped at the border and the Albanians must be returned. So D66 also comes up with ideas in this situation. Let's look at what we can add together and what we can do to make sure that the problems are solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u63	Yes. I am extremely pleased that ideas are being taken over as well. That's what we're here for. But we're badly prepared. That's why there's this panic situation, which is why there's all these feelings that we can't handle. I just want to make sure that things are settled properly for the solution. I hear Mr Samsom saying that we are not going to give them care payments, but that they are going to receive exactly the same care; that we are not giving them rent payments, but that they are not getting crazy, lesser or weird homes. If Mr Samsom is actually saying that they are getting exactly the same thing, why does he create that image that we are going to make some other arrangements for these people? Then why does he create the image that we make them unselfish and that they don't have to take care of it all by themselves, so we're going to do it in a way that sounds different, but is the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u64	Partly because we're going to do it in a way that's really different. We are going to build houses faster, for example by converting offices. So far, we haven't done that much. We also sometimes ask people to find a place together in such a house. I believe that the CDA has already put forward ideas for this, and we are now taking them over. Take the example of four men, not brothers of each other, who used to have four social housing units. We might end up in a situation where we house four men in one house; so they just live together in the next few months. We've done that a lot. In such a situation, it is quite logical that the municipality should take care of it, because you share things like the rent and all that. In the azc that is the same. You don't pay rent there either, and someone else pays the costs. We're reasoning from the practice. Everyone has their own image; D66 is always happy about that. I fear that will never be different in politics. However, I am pleased that we have found a practical solution and can now implement it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u65	I suggest that it is entirely obvious for the CDA, if the number of applications is very high and the pressure is very high, to share it with more people so that we can have fewer claims per person. That is also the background to the choices we are seeing here and we support them. There is another difficulty. The two coalition partners explain this quite differently. As a CDA, I hardly know what we're going through. Mr Zijlstra says it will be sober. He's talking about hand money a week for a couple of tens. Mr Samsom says that it remains a welfare allowance, only the care allowance and the rent allowance are not paid. What's true? Is there a net allocation of the same amount of money for the asylum seeker, or is there rather hand money, the CDA thinks that there is a lot to say for that too, because it is our responsibility to provide security in times of war? It's okay to do that with a sober shelter. What's the truth?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u66	If you get welfare in kind, the rent will be paid for you. Gas, water and light are also paid, as well as a number of other fixed charges such as the cost of large, durable goods, washing machines and the like. This is already the case with ordinary Dutch people who receive assistance in kind. The health insurance and the WA insurance will be paid for you and then you will have about €250 per month. That's the fee you get, for example, when you're in a mental institution. Everything else is paid for you. We have regulations for that in the Netherlands. It's been around for years. Assistance in kind is also applied in this way. If you would apply that to this situation, which makes sense in itself because you have to quickly build houses that are owned by another, often by a municipality, then you can arrange that quickly. So you have about €200 to €250 per month for pocket money and living money, and some call that a few tens a week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u67	This explanation is clear. However, I would say to Mr Samsom and to Mr Zijlstra, who is behind me here, that it is extremely complicated for the two parties to pretend that one of them is reducing all rights and maintaining all rights with the other. Then the world will no longer know what is happening, while there is simply a joint responsibility here to provide shelter in a sober, humane way. If the coalition parties were to start leaving out that bickering and going to the content, we would be a lot further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u68	For now, I'm still in discussion with you and not with the VVD. With that party we were working together on a solution, each from its own perspective. I have already said it in an earlier debate: if you are looking with me for the differences with the VVD, you may do that search with me, but I do not think it is sensible. The differences are large, so we can all increase them, but we can also find a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u69	That is indeed a different debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u70	Let me get this straight. I am in favour of looking for creative solutions to create more living space if there is huge scarcity. By the way, we should never have had this scarcity, but that aside, we will repeat it another time. Do I understand Mr Samsom correctly, however, that these homes are now intended to get status holders from asylum seekers' centres, and not for all those seeking housing who have been looking for homes for years?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u71	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Yesterday, of course, this debate also took place in the First Chamber, and the Prime Minister confirmed it. These properties are not only special for status holders. In practice, many status holders will find a place there in the coming weeks and months, I think, because they are now in an azc waiting for a place, but they are basically meant for others as well. There are also other forms of housing shortage, spread across the country. Sometimes it's about students, sometimes it's about other groups. Those too could make use of it. So you let the pressure on the housing market take off and you can end the situation of those waiting lists, which for a lot of people is very intricate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u72	To those other people who have been looking for a place for a long time, we do not say that they can enter a house, that they get living money and that we pay for them the rent and the care costs. So you are creating second-class citizens in this area. After all, you make a distinction between one seeker and the other seeker. I was very much in favour of the idea of the Labour Party that we should just add 100,000 homes, because we have too many house seekers. Then it's equal monks, equal hoods. Then everyone can go ahead and there is no more urgency pressure. Then there are plenty of homes. That makes perfect sense. What you're saying now doesn't make any sense. Now you are creating a second-class group, which also gets trouble to integrate. In practice, that group will also sit together. This will often be demonstrated in practice. So the Labour Party does not talk about a redistribution of the municipalities. So she's not talking about letting housing corporations stop selling homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u73	That is not the case. Assistance in kind shall not be limited to status holders. Assistance in kind is also granted to other groups, for example to people who are threatened with homelessness or who are more in debt than is actually justified. There are also people who can find a place in a place like this. In many municipalities, housing is organised in this way for vulnerable groups. Here too, assistance in kind is often a more sensible approach, in practical terms, than assistance in money, hoping that someone will pay the rent and the health insurance and everything that goes with it. There is therefore no division or dividing line between status holders and other Dutch. Assistance in kind is a practical solution in this case, but can also be a practical solution in other cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u74	What the Labour Party has always resisted...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u75	Not against assistance in kind at all, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u76	Vulnerable groups often involve people with towering debts who, for example, are under judicial control. That's a completely different story from the people we're talking about right now. These are people who live in the Netherlands and who are entitled to a home. The one is entitled to a house and is registered in Amsterdam, Boxmeer or Maastricht for a rental house, the daughter of Piet or Jan. The other is a status holder who has a residence permit and is entitled to a residence. So what I'm hearing right now is that you're treating one seeker differently from the other seeker. One state is simply on the list and may wait until its turn and the other may get a temporary residence and be treated differently at once, because arrangements are made for him and he gets living money. I can only conclude that, contrary to what the Labour Party has always said here in the Chamber until yesterday, there is a division and that we are therefore talking about second-class citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u77	I may lose the meaning of the "other" and the "one" in your conclusion. Now I don't know who the status holder is or who doesn't. I think that's significant. We are talking here about different groups that need to be helped from their situation to a home. The group of status holders sits in an azc in a room waiting for living space. I think it would be wise and desirable for us to organise housing as soon as possible. Because it has to be done quickly, it will often be achieved with precast or other solutions. Fine houses, we agree on that. It is as with other groups, then not at all illogical or even obvious, that you start from assistance in kind. If the city wants to or can do otherwise, it's okay. The welfare bill leaves that freedom. Klaas Dijkhoff, in his letter last week, referred to the municipal self-care scheme, which the municipalities themselves asked for. They have asked for the possibility to include status holders in their municipalities without having to take the financial responsibility for that. I can imagine. That too is a practical solution, which concerns the first six months. Slowly after those six months you could give the assistance in kind. The Labour Party has never opposed assistance in kind. In fact, we see it as a solution for vulnerable groups, not people who already have very high debts, then you are too late, but people who threaten to find themselves in such a situation. That's where you're gonna call some people patronizing, we like to deal with it sometimes and then you say: we pay the rent, the health insurance and some fixed charges, here you have the rest of the money to do fun things with, be careful with your expenses.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u78	Mr President, I will deal with the interruptions afterwards, but I would like to finish this. When it comes to really vulnerable groups, such as homeless people, we agree, but that is not the case in this case. We're talking about people who have a residence permit. We expect them to participate in society and integrate as soon as possible, to learn the language and to know the rules. Why then treat these people separately by paying the rent and the cost of care at once and giving them living money? So you're gonna turn that into another group, which they're not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u79	Like people who risk hitting homeless people, they're just social security holders, but I wouldn't say they're very resilient. They still speak the language poorly and are not yet fully integrated. We believe that the step from the azc to such a house was not without reason that last week the Secretary of State made proposals for a transitional period............................................................................................................................................................................................................... By the way, from day one and possibly earlier than day one, integration and increasing job opportunities should begin. I have to, but I'm going to say something about that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u80	Mr Samsom always insists that there are great differences between the Labour Party and the VVD, but that they always come out. What concerns me is that once a solution has been found, it will be explained in different ways. Mr Samsom may find that faint, because he says: but we disagree, right? But his words do matter. It is also very important that people in the Netherlands know what they are up to. What is the direction that is set out in the Netherlands and what does the coalition, this cabinet stand for? Then I am concerned about the plan that has now been presented. When I heard the first thing, I thought, "That's gonna cause huge division." When I hear Mr Samsom now, he actually says: the refugees are given urgency because we are going to build houses and we are going to get them a home. The first thing to do with the assistance would be tens, but if I speak to Mr Samsom now, he says that the level of assistance remains the same for everyone, but you can also get the assistance in kind. In this way nothing becomes more sober, but only the way in which money is paid out becomes different. Can Mr Samsom answer that? Is it true that the level of assistance remains the same for everyone and that only the way in which it is paid out will change? Is it true that people just get a house instead of being on a waiting list? Is it true that the policy now formulated by the coalition is intended to deter people in Syria or, as Mr Wilders would say, throughout Africa?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u81	The latter is not, of course, the case, but I shall first comment on Mr Klaver's first words. Mr Klaver is concerned about the fact that parties in the Chamber, including the coalition parties, make different noises. I think Mr Klaver should be more concerned if the opposite was the case. The cabinet speaks with one voice, but the parliamentary groups simply let us know what they think. If Mr Klaver wants this to be different, I wish him a great deal of pleasure in a coalition, because that is being forsaken. I also listened to Mr Klaver's speeches at the beginning of his group chairmanship. He took and assumes that he would always keep making his own GroenLinks sound heard, even if compromises had to be made; I commend him for that, and I encourage him to keep it up. I would say: go ahead with that, but do not take away that joy either. It's hard enough in a coalition, I can assure him. I'll deal with welfare in kind. It's very simple. No, it's not that simple; that's why I've been standing here for a while. If you stay in an asylum seeker center, you'll get paid everything from the COA and you'll also get some pocket and living money to do other things with. After all, you are already a status holder in this country and you have a right to set up your life. You don't have much room for that, by the way. Then you end up in a house, a sober house. The houses are sober, because we have to build them quickly, without much fuss. It is then driven from the welfare law, and the costs for the home, the health insurance and some other fixed charges are removed from it. That leaves you with a net amount. That is not a dime equal to the amount of pocket money and living money you get in the asylum seekers' centres, but it is very much in the direction. Perhaps this explains why the parties follow exactly the same principle, one party from the sum sum and the other party from the deduction sum.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u82	I warmly welcome Mr Samsom's own sound. That's what he's gotta show for it. However, if an agreement is reached and if you say "we're out, this is the way we're going to get the Netherlands through this difficult time," there has to be one clear story. Now there are two stories spread over the course and direction and I have a problem with that. I have no problem with it when the PvdA presents plans and still has to negotiate them, but if you're out and know what needs to be done, it has to be clear. If you say it's all getting much more sober, which might make people think "yes, fortunately, it's being made more sober" when it doesn't turn out to be the case at all because it's only being paid out in a different way, I'm sure I'm worried about that. Mr Samsom should do the same. Because this is what makes people look like. Politicians should not do that: neither should Mr Samsom nor I. The question remains, and I believe that Mr Samsom has now answered it. He says the welfare stays the way it is. Assistance shall not be reduced for these groups; that right shall remain the same. Only the way in which they pay out becomes different: they get their benefit not more cash, but in kind. That's the only difference. This means that the facilities for these groups in the Netherlands remain in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u83	Yes, we do, but we have to build a lot of houses, so it gets a little more sober than we used to and maybe wanted. Everyone wants a full social rental house with everything on it. That's not gonna work at this speed. We also ask people I gave as an example earlier; I am not going to fool people into thinking, because this is the reality of sharing a home with each other if practical. I already gave the example of four men, but there may be other combinations conceivable. Some are less happy, but some are really possible. That way you can help people get a place with sober accommodation. Then the costs are just a little lower. That's right. I was actually optimistic over the last few days that the opposition was not going to explain the coalition's plan this time. Mr Klaver gave the following situations: there will be a compromise and two parties will explain otherwise. However, this has not been the case in the last two years. Over the past two years, the situation has been as follows: there will be a compromise and then fifteen come to explain, one from D66, one from GroenLinks, one from the SP, one from the PVV, one from the CDA et cetera. The parties all say otherwise. The PVV always says that the VVD has gone through the pump and GroenLinks always says that we have wasted all our principles. Speaking of different sounds, we in this Chamber are really participating in this. The last few days, that went very well. Let's keep it that way!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u84	Often these compromises leave some room for speculation as to what exactly has been agreed. I literally said in a newspaper this morning that I don't know exactly what it says. That worries me. We ask for a letter and then get total vagueness about what has been agreed. In what way do you seek cooperation, including in a parliament, and build support? The question I asked wasn't about housing. It's perfectly clear. If there are too few houses, we cannot quickly build houses of a level that we would really like. Then you have to make concessions in that area. That's not im Frage at all. The question I asked was about welfare. It was said, by the tone and the way in which it is talked about: it is about a few tens. That makes it look like we're undressing that assistance and making sure people get less money. That is not the case now. I'd like that confirmed. Or I misunderstood, but then I'd like to hear it. Mr Samsom is never too bad to say that. The fact remains that the level of welfare benefits in the Netherlands remains the same, but that someone may no longer receive it all in cash, but in kind. Whether that's a health insurance or a home, the level remains the same. There's no concession to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u85	The right to assistance remains exactly the same. The level of that is part of what you need. I think it does matter if you get €800 in the month or if you get €200 to €250. I think that's a difference. That's what they call it. This is emphasised by some parties. That is what is happening now, for example, because of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u86	Now that we're talking about in-kind assistance, I'd like to go through with it. Over the last few weeks, we have been talking mainly about thousands of houses that should be built up. It is true that we have a shortage of housing in the social sector. However, we can see that the private sector in the Netherlands is suffering from a high level of emptiness. The 2013 figures show that there were 408,000 vacant houses in that year. When we talk about the long-term vacant position, we are talking about 175.000 homes spread across the country. These houses are not only located in shrinking areas, because in South Holland most of the houses are long-term empty. Does Mr Samsom agree with us that instead of saying that a lot of houses need to be built quickly, we need to look more closely at the private sector? Does he agree with us that we can make much better use of those existing homes that are long-term vacant?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u87	Yeah, that's right. In these files, however, it is often about homes that are empty at the end of that long-term period, which are no longer there. So these homes are on the nomination to be demolished. I don't know if these homes are always suitable, but if that makes a suitable home for a year or two or three, I think that would be very useful. I have already referred to the letter from the Secretary of State for Justice, but I think that was also the portee of the letter from the Minister for Housing and National Service. So yes, this suggestion has been accepted in gratitude and is now accepted in gratitude. We're gonna look for as many homes as we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u88	At least that's good to hear. I would point out the pressure to build a certain number of homes. We are talking about thousands of homes in this context. This could greatly alleviate the problem we are currently facing. So I'm gonna come up with proposals. Then I hope the Labour Party will be able to support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u89	Yeah, I hope so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u90	The problem, of course, is not that groups in the Chamber make their own views and sounds heard, but the problem is indeed very big when coalition parties talk in a different way about the compromises that have been made, especially if you know that they are actually divided to the point of compromise. That is why it is important that a debate such as this should provide clarity. I have the next question. "Soberness" is a word that the VVD uses very much. This has been particularly the case in recent days. Sobriety will not be used as an instrument for foreign policy. Is that right, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u91	I know what Mr Slob is referring to: austerity as a deterrent against asylum influx, just to put it in plastic form. No, we're not getting into that. But austerity is useful to find a practical solution for everything. If some people believe that this is a small contribution to the creation of a different attraction for the Netherlands in the Middle East, I cannot deny them that opinion. But austerity is used to ensure that we have sufficient facilities, without letting all the other facilities that we in the Netherlands have to arrange for everyone who already lives here get into trouble. That's what sobriety is for. In the meantime, I have spoken more often than my coalition party. We can quickly reach agreement on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u92	So austerity is not an instrument for foreign policy. Now that, as in this situation, we are faced with a decent influx, including in numbers, of refugees, we must, of course, seek practical solutions. They are sometimes sober, because in the short term you cannot realize anything and anything. I would also like to ask Mr Samsom. International conventions on refugees that we have concluded are in full force. The same goes for the shelter. For example, we have concluded a treaty on the status of refugees. Article 23 states that if a person is legally resident on our territory and therefore has a status, he will be treated in the same way as nationals of the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u93	Yes, the Prime Minister confirmed that yesterday in the debate in the First Chamber. I'm sure he'll confirm that again if he so requests. I am also doing this from the point of view of the Labour Party. Those treaties stand and stand. There's no change in that. Nor do we need to change the laws, except on that one point, where priority status disappears. We have just had a discussion on this. In the long run, until there are enough homes, this can provide relief. As far as the Linking Act, all kinds of social insurance laws or the Health Insurance Act are concerned, you could change it all, but we are not going to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u94	This is important, because then we can conclude that the foundations, the basis of our foreign policy as we know and know it, remain in full force, even in the future. International conventions that we have concluded on refugees also remain in full force. The only thing we are looking for together now is the answer to the question of how we can properly absorb the numbers that are now coming towards us. That's a big problem. It is about giving substance to the hospitality that belongs to our country in a decent way when it comes to foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u95	That's a good thing you said. You were right to say: just call it the only thing. Because that is the big issue. I would like to repeat once again that you are quickly and soberly stomping the facilities out of the ground, just to put it plasticly, because we need a lot of them quickly. It also means that we ask people who come here to temporarily settle for a shared home, for example. At the moment we ask them to settle for a tent or far too long with a place in the azc. We've been asking a lot of them. I think that is a good thing to justify.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u96	That word sober, sober, sober... is sober an end in itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u97	No, although you might say that we in the Labour Party, with its Dreesian roots, take sober policy for granted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u98	Mr Samsom, the VVD in particular and the cabinet all the time calling that word sober. Does Mr Samsom understand that this is what happens when: in this way we hold it off and in this way we show that we really find it very horrible that these people come here? So austere is not an end in itself. The housing remains just decent, it remains in accordance with the treaties, it does not cause division, it does not cause disadvantage. That's all guaranteed if it's up to the PvdA?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u99	Yes. If the current laws in your view guarantee everything you say now, then we are not going to change them. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u100	That's very important. So we're not going to change any laws. We're not going for division. We're not gonna give you any retardation. We're going from day one, if it's up to me, and I hope Mr Samsom, too, will take care of language, we're going to get them involved, they're going to get work. The division that still exists in that is going to be lifted rather than enlarged. We agree on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u101	Yes. And in order to do that, we need to quickly create sober facilities for these people so that we can do justice to all the objectives of this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u102	Why now in the tail that word sober?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u103	Maybe now to tease you, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u104	It sounds like: rauhphaserbehangetje, because if we give it a tan, the people in Holland would immediately start to think again: you come out of that Kobani, shot and already, you're on the road for weeks and now we're going to give you a tan on your wallpaper. It'd be like, "Look at them go crazy." Why do you keep moaning about that word "sober"? Just say: these people are being properly taken care of here!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u105	Again, the Labour Party is in a tradition of austerity. And by the way, if that doesn't work out, we're gonna have enough trouble with our people. I call it occasional. The last time, I admit, I did that to defy you a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u106	Looks like we did it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u107	Wonderful, yes. Mr. Chairman. With all this sober housing, we're far from there. It is not only the effort for sober housing that needs to be stepped up, Mr Pechtold, but also the effort for integration and the chance of a job must be raised. Let us not repeat the mistakes of the past. Let us take the integration of those who are allowed to stay right away with united forces. Start with language, immediately start with information on the standards and values of this beautiful country and the faster recognition of diplomas. An action plan for integration and work. I would very much like to hear from the cabinet what it has in store for that, because it still has to be. However, the greatest unrest...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u108	I have a short question because I think it's a fantastic idea. It was also my idea: to start quickly with language, to join quickly, to get to know the laws of the country quickly, for all I know, the Constitution in simplified form, everything is fine, but who is going to pay for it? Are we going to move around the accounts of the municipalities that are already wondering what they are paying for all this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u109	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u110	Or are we gonna give some space in that respect? Isn't the search for money gonna hinder the solution? That's actually my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u111	The latter is the case. Actually, that starts with housing. I won't mention that one word. The usual, normal housing. Of course, costs must also be incurred for this. Right now, COA is costing a lot more than it thought it would make. The Minister of Finance has already spoken wisely about this. He said that this is not going to be a hindrance, that it can be discussed in the Chamber at the appropriate moments and that new budgets can be set aside for this, if necessary. This can be done with the Autumn Note and the Spring Note, and its handling will be faster than we like.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u112	Municipalities are now getting €40, but they are sometimes lost to security alone or do laundry in that 72-hour reception. Aren't municipalities gonna slow themselves down? It has to be demonstrably justified, and sober. If they can prove it, aren't we gonna squeeze the congregations? Vlissingen's up against article 12 status, I heard. The city council does, however. We're not gonna say a few thousand euros: you're in trouble, so figure it out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u113	That should not generally be the attitude of the cabinet, but I leave that to the cabinet that is negotiating with the VNG. That last club knows exactly where Abraham gets the mustard if we are going to write all kinds of blank cheques here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u114	I would have expected a somewhat more critical sound from Mr Samsom on this point. In the General Political Reviews, the Prime Minister said: we are assuming these estimates, we can work with them, and we will discuss them at regular intervals. However, this summer, the inflow rates for 2015 had to be drastically adjusted, i.e. to twice as much. That brings me to the idea of getting ahead of this development. A lot more people are coming in next year, and we really need to make agreements on this right now, and we need to free up the budget so that people can get to work right away. A motion for a resolution on budget release was adopted, partly thanks to Mr Samsom. It states that we must also work on integration in the General Political Reviews. The motion calls on the government to make additional funds available to enable this to be done, for the Social Affairs budget. We can't wait until next year. That's what we need to do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u115	At that last point, my impatience is great. That ends at the end of this day. Indeed, we need to hear from the cabinet about efforts in the areas of integration, jobs and so on. We have heard some reports of this which were encouraging, but I hope to hear a little more about it today. That'd be great. Mr Klaver asked for a budget to be made available for this purpose. If the cabinet itself can make a budget for that without bothering us, then I prefer that situation. I can assure you that it has been complicated enough in recent years to clear budgets in the Chamber for one thing and another. The cabinet has assured us, and from that insurance I go out until it is revoked, that finances are not an obstacle to doing what is necessary to cope with this flow of refugees. As long as the cabinet assures us that, as a group, I am in good shape. As soon as the cabinet rings the bell, but let us not do so ourselves, first of all, we have a problem. Then we're all gonna solve that. However, let us not provoke this in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u116	Roses have vicious spines, so I'd sit on something else. The Prime Minister put it very precisely in the General Political Reviews: the COA will always have sufficient resources to manage the reception of refugees. That's what was literally said. The question and the motion, which also calls for more budget, are about something else. They're about the integration budget. That's something that usually goes through the municipality. It's not necessarily a task that lies with the COA. We have invited the Minister for Social Affairs because he has a role to play in this. I would be happy if the cabinet could find the means to do so without bothering us. Mr Samsom has just said that at the end of this debate it must be clear how this accelerated integration will take shape and how it will be paid for. If there is no answer from the cabinet, the Chamber must take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u117	I would like to hear from the cabinet: yes, we are going from day one, or maybe day two, because it's quite complicated, working on that integration and we're going to increase that chances of getting a job. People will have to find that job by themselves, but we can do something about recognising diplomas and the like. If the cabinet says "we're going to do that within the budgets we've been given so far," then I'm not asking. I told you before, we shouldn't ask the gods. The cabinet will come to us when we run out of money. The Minister of Finance has already announced that this will be done in the autumn note.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u118	I find it striking that Mr Samsom is not asking through. If something within existing budgets can be realized, then that's fine, but don't ask? That's exactly what we should do. I want to know whether the ambition is realistic within the set resources. For next year, resources for integration will be cut, while more people will come in to be integrated. Handsome boy who manages to manage that within the current budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u119	Let me say that this time I am opting for a slightly less economical approach and simply put ambition and objectives at the centre. Whether this is possible within the budget is up to the mathematicians of the cabinet. There's enough books in this policy as it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u120	Mr. Samsom is quite funny, but I know him as a man who looks after the details. He usually wants to go on at every point. Now we are talking about a very important issue facing society, namely the integration of these refugees. That's what he's saying right now: well, I have faith in it and I don't have to go through with it. I'm disappointed with him. We should be much more critical of that. Is the ambition that is mentioned really being achieved? Words are beautiful, but results are better, especially in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u121	Yes, I agree with Mr Klaver. So let's get all the venom out of it. I agree with him; we simply have to realise those ambitions. But I'll put the ball in the cabinet. If we think we need more money there, then we will talk about it in the debate on the Year's Note and at a different time. And I say that the cabinet will indeed think this into the Navy's note, because that has already been said by the Minister of Finance. He has a great predictive gift in this field. I can also assure Mr Klaver that this will be complicated enough. So for the large group of people who come here, housing and integration are needed. However, the greatest uncertainty and unrest among people is not with the well-known amount of refugees and the tasks associated with them, although they are still so great. The greatest unrest is caused by the unknown influx, by the large group still on their way, in Europe and to Europe. Questions that affect people are: how many more will they be and do we have any control over them? These questions call for an answer, so much so that some resort to simplism. Yes, we have complete control, because we're just closing the borders. Or: no, we don't have any control, because we just have to let them all in. Somewhere between these easy-going extremes lies the pitiful reality of the difficult but necessary distinction between refugees and economic migrants and of European cooperation. With the latter, we must prevent countries from trying to become as unattractive as possible through mutual competition for asylum. That's a hell of a race to the bottom. Somewhere in between, there is also the blundering reality of tough negotiations with countries such as Turkey, in order to ensure that the borders are better guarded, and the blundering reality of the many billions that will be needed to give the refugees in the region a decent life. That is what tomorrow's European summit is about. We have known the commitment of the Dutch government for some time. My group wholeheartedly supports this commitment. Let us hope that Europe now does what it is so good at in all its imperfection; hastily, for it began too late, clumsy and shattering along the abyss, just in time the right amount of unity and effort to find an answer. We need to work with the countries in the region. We need better border control at the external borders of Europe. Refugees arriving in Greece and Italy must be registered. An effective return policy is needed for those who are not allowed to stay. The people who are allowed to stay must be distributed more fairly across Europe. It's all necessary. Not everything's gonna work out, and it's gonna slow down anyhow. And people keep coming. As long as there are security, peace and prosperity here, and elsewhere war, oppression and hunger, people will continue to seek their fate here. That is the reality of this issue. Let us do justice to that uncomfortable reality by staying far from complacency and by jointly finding answers that will do justice to everyone, both to the people who are coming here, and to us, the people who are already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u122	Mr. Chairman. Enough is enough. Millions of people in this beautiful country are sick of it. I'm going to tell you why. A lot of people sent us their story. I'm going to read some of those stories. I'm gonna use my term for that. These are stories you don't read in the paper, which the Prime Minister doesn't talk about and which the COA doesn't talk about. It's the stories of the ordinary people in the Netherlands. I'll start with a letter from an 80-year-old lady. She writes: "Bye Geert, I'm 80 years old. I helped for one day in the Americas Hall in Apeldoorn, but never again! The asylum seekers are making a mess of things. If they get a jacket as second coat, not distinguishable from new, then it's "no, not new." They have a big mouth, they have comments on the food and they get just as much meat as I get in a week, but they throw it all away." A gentleman from Old Pekela says: "Here with us in Old Pekela there is a lot of nuisance. Drunken asylum seekers regularly harass young children. Young girls are feeling lewdly and they are in public doing their need."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u123	It was to be expected. This is a new tradition of Mr Wilders to start with lists. I also have a list for Mr Wilders: storming and fireworks bombs in Woerden, swastikas and white power at an azc in Zuidlaren, swastikas in the Boelenslaan in Friesland, "own people first" and "fuck off" in Voorst, "no azc" with a david star in Wezep, "own people first" in Brunssum, a house of a Syrian family written in Deventer, a swastika and "refugees, fuck you" in Tholen. I will not put these incidents in Mr Wilders' shoes, even if he calls for resistance. I'm not gonna say that all these people are racists, not at all. That would be too lame. These are incidents. The people who do this have to be tough on us, just like the fugitives kicking that shit. But to pretend that all refugees are criminals and people who come kicking crap, or, in my example, to call all people who are critical of refugees racists, is both equally bad. Mr Wilders should not do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u124	I tell the stories of normal Dutch people who experience this in their neighborhood and I continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u125	It's nice. Another one of those lists. Keep up the good work. But you're acting like all these refugees are exactly the same. You can also state that these are incidents, can't you? You can also say that people who are kicking crap in the Netherlands need to be dealt with as hard as they can. That's what we could be about. They're from the same sheet, aren't they, like, a suit of racists scrambled swastikas? They both need to be punished just as hard, don't they? That's the solution we need to find. You cackle a lot, Mr Wilders, but lay an egg! How do we fix this? We do that by sitting hard on top of those incidents.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u126	A man from Arnhem says: "My two daughters have been regularly harassed by asylum seekers here in the Dome of Arnhem for a week. What can I do about it? Help, a concerned father." A disabled woman says, "I was at a supermarket last Sunday. I'm 63 years old and drive a scooter through the supermarket because of my illness. There was a large group of asylum young people present. Three of those guys came up my side and wanted me to step aside for them. I refused. Then one of them raised his middle finger, and another one cut his throat. One of those guys ran into my scooter, which bent my mirror in. He turned around and came my way with his fist up. Mr Wilders, I can tell you that I was frozen waiting for what was going to happen. I quickly turned around and left the store without my groceries."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u127	These are terrible incidents, and I fully agree with them, but why didn't you give Mr Klaver a proper answer? These are incidents and we must reject them. That goes for both sides. By not answering, Mr Wilders suggests that they are not incidents and that everyone is doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u128	This isn't an incident. I've got tons of stuff like this. I am the last to say that all asylum seekers are doing this, but we are importing a culture. We import a mass of Islamic immigration you will see so in other examples of testosterone bombs. I've mentioned that before. That is the reality of women in the Netherlands who suffer from that culture. We import people who don't want to integrate here, who want to colonize us. That is the reality and that is my answer to you. If you don't want to take that from me now, I hope you'll listen. You don't see stories like this on television, Mr. Roemer. That's not what the Prime Minister's talking about, and you never talk about it. These people need to be heard and I will force you to listen to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u129	What I hear, I'd better tell you myself. We hear everything too, because we are a party that is in the roots of the departments. We hear everything, we see everything and we try to analyse it. But by not answering a correct question from a colleague, you're suggesting a lot. I do not think we should do that. I am trying to solve problems with you, to ensure that people in the streets and neighbourhoods are heard, that people are given a say and that people who are out of line are dealt with. If that's the common message, we'll get a lot further. However, this does not allow us to go any further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u130	Madam President, Mr Roemer is the last to provide a solution. Mr Roemer is one of the people who causes problems. The SP is one of those parties, Mr Roemer and Mrs Gesthuizen first, who say: come in, the more azc's the better. I just showed you a poster from Almere. If you want, I'll give it to you. In Almere SP'ers were shouting: come, more asylum seekers, more azc's. You make sure that the Netherlands becomes more unsafe, that more people are coming. If you have been rejected as an asylum seeker and the judge has said "you cannot be here," it is again Mr Roemer's party that says "even if you are illegal, we are going to pay for your shelter," instead of: we are going to bang you all out of the country. Your party, Mr Roemer, is not working on a solution. You're making things worse every day, and that's why the voters are running away from you screaming and screaming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u131	It is too sad for words that Mr Wilders simply does not listen to twelve concrete proposals in a speech, but apparently is doing something else and then throwing off quite different stories. If you are responsible for conducting war, you must also feel responsible for solving the flow of refugees. That's what you're walking away from. To those for whom the bucket has turned because they cannot find a home, you must be so honest to say that it has been your policy. When people say they can't make ends meet, you have to admit that the PVV policy has been to lower the social minimum. Be so honest to say things like that!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u132	You're the man of open borders. You're the guy who makes all those SPs say, "What else am I looking for in the SP?" Instead of giving those billions to care, instead of Mr Roemer interrupting me and saying 'Mr Wilders, we will close the borders and improve people's pensions and care'... It is our money, it is our people, it is our pensioners whose pensions cannot be indexed immediately, it is our nursing homes that have to close. Instead of finding Mr Roemer on my side by saying 'let us close the borders and spend the billions differently', he attacks me and leaves the borders open. You make sure that there is less money for pensioners in the Netherlands and that there is less money for care in the Netherlands. These asylum seekers are going to cost us billions. Then you shouldn't be surprised that people don't recognize themselves in the SP anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u133	Mr Wilders finds me on his side when it comes to improving care, but we also come up with concrete proposals. He will not find me on his side if he looks away from problems in Europe and in the world for which he is jointly responsible. After all, he also voted in favour of continuing to throw bombs. Then you can't look away. It is too simple, Mr Wilders, to assume that borders can be shut down and that a fence can be built around it. It is too simple to think that we have so many agents that we can keep the borders closed while overlooking the fact that this will create an enormous stream of illegality. Try to tackle the problems at the source as much as possible and do not turn people against each other. With regard to improving services, I would have liked to have had you on my side, but in Rutte I you were on the side of breaking down social security in the Netherlands. Be honest with me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u134	Mr Roemer's solution is: come on in, the borders can be opened! I can still see them, the SPs in Almere with their banner. I understand you're very sorry to hear me say this, but there were 50 or 60 SPs in Almere with a banner. I think someone from GroenLinks was playing a song. They were singing: Come on in. That costs billions, Mr. Roemer. Billions that we cannot spend on the people in the Netherlands, who we cannot spend on care, which we cannot spend on pensions. Signature: Emile Roemer, SP. Thank you very much, Mr Roemer. I'll continue with a message from a woman from Ter Apel. She writes: "Mr Wilders, yesterday an acquaintance of ours was harassed by a refugee. She went shopping and in the store she was chased and harassed. The fugitive used to say "I want to fuck you" all the time, until two men with a solid build went to help the woman. Then the fugitive drowned." Someone who works at the COA telephone exchange reports: "Hi, I work at the telephone exchange where the calls for the COA come in. That's 500 to 700 a day. We also take care of the security calls. The incidents cannot be described with a pen. Everywhere, refugees cause nuisance. Every day reports of violence and riots are reported. Hardly any of that is seen in the media."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u135	What does Mr Wilders write back to these people? Concerned and angry people write a letter to Mr Wilders, hoping he will have an answer for them. What does he write back to these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u136	I write back to them that they owe this to Mr Samsom, among other things. He is the man of the open borders, together with his left-wing friends of the SP and unfortunately also of the VVD. Those parties make sure that anyone can just come in. They create the illusion that with a sober shelter you stop people, while the shelter here is still a thousand times more luxurious than in Turkey or in Syria or anywhere else. So those people will keep coming. Closing our borders and re-establishing border controls is the only real solution to ensure that people are stopped. Two-thirds of the Dutch want that. About half of the Dutch want us not to let those people into our country. That's millions of people. Mr Samsom does not listen to them, but I am very proud to listen to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u137	I was afraid that Mr Wilders would write back that someone else was to blame for the problem. That's the PVV in optima forma: scaring people and blaming others. That's all the PVV does when there's a problem, when you should solve the problem. Mr Wilders should be prepared to cooperate. He scares people, and he blames other people. He's gotta stop doing that. He can send all these people emails until he weighs one on us, but he should think about what is really needed. The problem just needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u138	This is the dedain of a Social Democrat in 2015. Mr Samsom says that people's questions should not be taken seriously, but he is responsible. He is 100% responsible for the fact that people who have travelled through six safe countries before they arrived in the Netherlands are therefore not refugees at all and simply have to be treated as migrants are still allowed in. They're not refugees. They're migrants. They came from Germany, Austria, Hungary, Serbia and Greece. Those are all safe countries. That's where they should've got shelter and not here. Mr Samsom says: come in anyway; we will pay. In September alone 13 000 people came in because Mr Samsom, Mr Roemer, Mr Pechtold, Mr Zijlstra and Mr Buma all said: come in with your servant. The PVV says don't! A lady from Houten writes: "With us in Houten there is a asylum seekers' centre next to my child's pool. Every day, all kinds of men come into the pool watching 5 year old children swim. I find that scary and nauseating."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u139	Mr Wilders mentions some terrible examples of things that happen. I wonder, then, what is Mr Wilders doing himself to solve it? That is his job as a parliamentarians. He speaks of "a fake parliament," but here he pretends to be a real parliament. Parliament has a role to play in this respect. During the past year, a proposal has been made by the cabinet on a number of occasions to facilitate the reception of asylum seekers. That has been very rare. The only example we have is an amendment to the Crisis and Recovery Act, which makes it easier to establish large asylum seekers' centres without changing authorisation. This is covered by the heading "enhancing reception capacity for asylum seekers'. That proposal was put forward in November 2014. It was published in the Official Journal on 7 September 2015. The contribution that we have been able to make from the Parliament has therefore seen whether or not we agree to broaden the possibilities of receiving asylum seekers. Does Mr Wilders know what he himself did in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u140	Can Mr. Buma really come up with anything better than the Crisis and Recovery Act? What the hell are you doing? Mr Buma, you are one of the people who is also responsible for opening the borders. Don't come up with a law and one of those rules that we treat around a thousand of here a day. It's what we should have done. Where your party, the CDA, is failing in a scandalous way, is that we need to close the borders. We need to make sure those people don't come into our country. If they don't come into our country, that's our position. We don't need asylum. That is why we will not support this type of proposal. We believe that they should not enter our country. If they don't come in, we don't need shelter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u141	The big problem is that the PVV did support it. Mr Wilders has been to all kinds of places, such as Purmerend and Almere. He went there with flyers, like they're helping against the influx of refugees. To the people there he says they have to resist making, building an asylum-seekers' centre in their region. And what does Mr Wilders himself do? Probably just doesn't pay attention to this at all. He's out on the street, but he doesn't do the work he's paid for by all those people. What Mr Wilders is doing is agreeing with what we are about to get: building large asylum seekers' centres in the provinces. I know that if there are, Mr Wilders will be the first to be there with his leaflets ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u142	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u143	I hope, then, that these people realise that such an asylum seekers' centre has come along on behalf of Mr Wilders, who has not done his job here. Mr. Wilders, you can say whatever you want, but you are paid to do your job. Your work is parliamentary control. You won't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u144	I'm just doing my job. The Crisis and Recovery Act contains much more than the proposal referred to by Mr Buma. The Crisis and Recovery Act says that in certain cases you can indeed go through procedures more quickly. That's not asylum law, it's the Crisis and Recovery Act. Mr Buma does not know there, no matter how many laws he brings to the interrupting microphone. The CDA stands for open borders. The CDA stands for thousands of asylum seekers a week to the Netherlands. It was 13,000 in September. As long as Mr Buma doesn't do anything about it, he doesn't do his job. That's much more serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u145	This is a total demasque, isn't it? You say, "Sorry, it was the Crisis and Recovery Act." So you couldn't find that there's just a whole piece in there about increasing the reception of asylum seekers? The CDA could read that. The CDA now has one seat more than you. You started with fifteen, three have now disappeared elsewhere in the benches. You've got 12 more. You just have to do your job as a Member of Parliament. You are calling for this to be a fake parliament, but there is only one fake group, namely yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u146	It hurts so much that Mr Buma does not actually have an answer to today's problems. He's gonna go wild with a law that's about a lot more, like a lot of laws. In the end, we make a balance between accelerated procedures that are necessary and important, even if there is a part in them that we do not want. That's what everybody here does. We're doing our job. We do our work well. We have seen that this law offers more advantages than disadvantages. This is not about the Crisis and Recovery Act, Mr Buma. The important thing is that you take care of it... Well, you can come to the interrupting microphone laughing, but it is good that Dutch people know that your CDA will ensure that we get here with open borders an asylum tsunami of thousands, tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of Muslims over the next few years who claim to be Christians, who you claim to be, if it can make a cup smaller. That's the practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u147	Mr Buma, I have a comment to make for the Acts. Everyone has the right to their own opinion, but everyone who sits in this Chamber has been elected, checked and is here as a real member of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u148	I think it is a good thing that you have brought me to justice on this matter, Mr President. I believe that we have had this debate before and that this has passed. Anyway, that's gonna be me. Still, I need this. Mr. Wilders can do whatever he wants. He is now saying that his group is not going to repeat the word I just used, because I am following you before the Crisis and Recovery Act was because there were all good things in it, but he does not even know what I am talking about. This is about a decision that has been in the Chamber very recently in the time that all this has been going on. It contained a number of specific changes. The PVV did not comment on this and so these changes have continued. I think the other people understood that this was necessary and that Mr Wilders was just pamphleting. With everything he says about everyone and all the things he tells, he forgets to tell one thing: the asylum seekers' centre in your province is part of it thanks to the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u149	No, Madam President. Mr Buma ignores the fact that the PVV Group says zero asylum seekers in the Netherlands. If you do what we want, close the borders, nobody gets into our country and you don't need an asylum centre. We are going into the country to support people and to ensure that there is no asylum centre in their congregation. That is why I stand here every time to say to the cabinet and this Parliament: stop these asylum seekers, borders close. I tell you, Mr Buma, if you close the borders, you will need zero asylum-seekers' centres. If you open the borders, as the CDA does, and invite hundreds of thousands of people to come to the Netherlands, you need that law. We don't need him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u150	Mr Wilders says zero asylum seekers. Can he tell me how many asylum seekers came in in 2011?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u151	I'm not gonna name numbers a year. That quiz is just Mr. Pechtold doing with someone else. I say that 40 000 to 50 000 asylum seekers are at risk of entering this year. This number has already been adjusted upwards to 50,000 or 60,000. The number in the books for next year, 2016, which is 18,000, is far from being reached. I tell you, Mr Pechtold, this year alone there are 13 000 asylum seekers in September...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u152	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u153	No, I'd like to give my own answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u154	Then answer me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u155	13,000 asylum seekers. If you do that 12 times, you'll have 150,000 asylum seekers in one year. If two followers add up, you'll have almost half a million. If you do that for a few years, you'll have a million asylum seekers in the Netherlands. What happened in 2011 is irrelevant. It's about what happens this year and what happens next year. That's where the whole of the Netherlands comes up in rebellion. We support that and we are proud of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u156	I hope that Mr Wilders does not do house finance at home, but that his wife does, because if he can count like that, they will soon be bankrupt with the Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u157	It's the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u158	I asked a very simple question. In 2011 Mr Wilders was responsible for the asylum influx in the Netherlands, because he entered the coalition in 2010 and he ran out in 2012. How many asylum seekers came in in 2011? Now he says zero, but how many came in under his responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u159	I'm not doing 2011. I'm not doing 2012. I'm not doing 2013. I'm not a politician of the past. I'm a politician of the present and future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u160	From this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u161	I am a politician of today and of the future and I am going to go into the country now to make sure that we have that tsunami of asylum seekers who are about to come and whose PVV is about to be the only one in this house... Look at the polls how that is appreciated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u162	Oh, the polls.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u163	We are the only ones in this house who stand up for the people, because hundreds of thousands of people are at risk of arriving in Europe and the Netherlands if we leave the borders open. And that, Mr Pechtold, I want to avoid.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u164	If Mr Wilders is allowed to vote as a Member of Parliament, he will vote for the Greeks and for the euro, but when he sits with his one-man party in the opposition, he will say: look what everyone has done wrong. There was only one MP in that whole time who voted for it: Wilders. 2011, Wilders is on the buttons. Today he says zero, but in 2011 16,114 asylum seekers arrived. He didn't do anything about it. He throws people who are right to worry because people come in and they wonder how we take this, sand in the eyes. There are people who are worried because they want to help and there are people who are worried because they do see problems in the housing or labour market. Mr Wilders predicts something, but when it comes to action, Wilders is always wrong. Nothing zero. When he was in power: 16.114. No war in Syria. Normal inflow. He didn't do anything about it. Get a pamphlet, man!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u165	Yeah, I'll definitely do that tomorrow. If Mr. Pechtold likes that, he can come with us. It just confirms my story. I said zero now; zero asylum seekers in it. Those 16,000 of them are now threatening... Mr. Pechthold laughs; he always likes to laugh at people from the benches. However, I will give him a serious answer. Those 16,000 of them are 100,000 now. If we leave the borders open, those 100,000 will now be 200,000 or 300,000 in the coming years. Hundreds of thousands, Madam President. The Netherlands doesn't want that. The Netherlands does not want to accommodate hundreds of thousands of asylum seekers; we have to spend billions on this, and that is at the expense of our budget, at the expense of our culture, at the expense of our security. People don't want that, Mr. Pechtold. On the joke "it was 16,000, but now zero," I say: yes, now zero. A very big zero. You must know that number, Mr Pechtold: zero. You're a big zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u166	"Hundreds of thousands," says Mr Wilders?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u167	Sure. This is particularly true if we add the number of family-makers, the number of family-owners, the descendants after the three-month period. That's a simple sum. In September we had 13,000. If that goes on for a year, there will be, times 12, 150,000. Mr Pechtold, that 13 000 is a number that entered in September. That's 12 times 150,000. There...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u168	Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u169	I'm still working on my answer. A partner to that, makes 300,000. If that takes a few years, you'll get a million. I'm not making it up. Those are the numbers. You can ridicule that, Mr Pechtold, but the Netherlands has had enough of the politicians looking the other way, who are joking about it, who are laughing about politicians going on the streets to stand up for them. I am proud that I will not be here tomorrow, but there, to fight for those people, to ensure that there is no asylum centre in their city.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u170	Mr Wilders seems to me like a man who sits on a terrace at 30°C in the summer and says: if we keep this up until Christmas, we can sit on the terrace here all year round. Those are not the facts, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u171	Those are certainly the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u172	The facts are that the figures in these years are still far below the level we had in the year 2000, for example. At that time, Mr Wilders, we had five consecutive years in which the number was well above the current level. In the one year in which you had responsibility, you promised zero, but there came thousands. And that's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u173	What Mr Pechtold shows here again is complete bullshit. We have seen an invitation from Mr Tusk, the President of the European Council. The Prime Minister sent that letter for this debate. Mr Tusk himself says in that letter that he expects that in winter there may be a few fewer people coming here, but that next year millions of people will be arriving. The President of the European Council, not my closest friend, but Mr Pechtold's greatest friend, says that millions of people are still coming. The Prime Minister of Hungary is even talking about 35 million. And he might know, because his boundaries are stormed even more than ours. The story of hundreds of thousands and millions, tens of millions, coming into Europe is recognised by Heads of State or Government. Unlike Mr Pechtold, I do not want these people to come to the Netherlands. We can't handle that. We can't handle Islamization. We can spend those billions better on our own people. We cannot deal with the crime that that brings with us. We cannot do that with 600,000 unemployed. We need those jobs for our own people, not those illiterate people from the Middle East who are coming here. We cannot do that, and we should not do that. I fight with my group every day to stop it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u174	I have a point of order. Mr President, you have just spoken to Mr Buma in his language. Mr Wilders also used some terms. I expect you to intervene now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u175	I've said it before, and I'm repeating it now. I don't think we need to close names. You did that earlier, Mr Wilders, and now you do it again. People sitting in the public gallery, for example from school classes, call that swear words. I do not think we need to do that in parliament. I repeat that so that it is recorded in the Acts. Thank you, Mr Zijlstra, for giving me that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u176	Mr Wilders provides qualifications for people who come here as asylum seekers: illiterates, testeron bombs, etc.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u177	Testosterone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u178	Yeah, testosterone, sure. However, we also know that they are people who have sometimes been in real danger. People who, for example, were persecuted because of their faith and left their country. So it is really important to hear from Mr Wilders: when is it? Is there room for catching people when they are in such a situation and have had to leave their country at risk for their own lives?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u179	I've given the answer before. I do not remember Christians being persecuted, for example, in Belgium or Germany. However, the people are all from Belgium or Germany. Those are safe countries. Before that they were even in Austria, Hungary, Serbia or Greece. They're all countries where they were already safe. So the answer to the question is: we should not allow these people here. Not because I deny that they may have fled because of their religion, but because they have already travelled through six safe countries. That's where they should've been taken care of. If they don't, and they still travel on because they want to use our welfare state, I say you're not welcome. So when is it? Not, never, zero asylum seekers are coming now. The Christians who fled Syria, for example, were already on their way here in Greece, Serbia and many countries. That's where they need to be taken care of, not here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u180	I read in the PVV election programme that at least 1,000 per year could enter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u181	But not now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u182	Would it be appropriate, for example, to invite a particular group to come to us in order to join Mr Wilders' thinking? If they are in real danger for their lives, could we give them a safe place here? Is there any way to talk to the PVV about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u183	No, not now. Now the answer is zero. We can't handle it. We had 13,000 in September alone. We've had weeks for 4,000 to arrive. Last week it was 2,500, I think, the week before 3,000 came in. A week! We can't afford that. There are buses with asylum seekers driving from place, to place, to place, when they don't even know where to sleep. Municipalities are being forced, as we have seen in the Netherlands, to take on the people against their will. Only a blind man can't see that the Netherlands can't take it anymore and that our society is saying no. That is not because people are antisocial, not because people think that real refugees should not be taken care of, but because the Netherlands can no longer handle it. We must close our borders and we must and cannot solve the problem here. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u184	So Mr Wilders always points to others, or he refers to others. But if he has to do something himself, take responsibility for himself, he does not give up at home, while in our country many thousands of citizens do so simply when it comes to receiving refugees. After all, many volunteers are involved. I asked Mr Wilders a few weeks ago what we do with the people who are already here, sometimes for years. I mentioned the example of a Christian girl from Uzbekistan, who is in danger of being evicted. Can she stay, Mr Wilders?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u185	I am not talking about individual cases, no matter how pathetic Mr Slob looks at them. We never do that around here. However, I would say that 47% of the Dutch feel that it is no longer possible to do so and that we should not allow anyone to do so anymore. 47% believe that this is impossible, that we should close the borders and not allow asylum seekers anymore. That's not because all these millions of Dutch people are antisocial people, but because they see that the refugees are already coming from safe countries, because they don't want our country to Islamise, because they want security in the Netherlands to be paramount, because we have to spend those billions on our own people, and because we can't do it anymore. The Netherlands is at its tax. I do not understand the fact that 90% of the House says 'all come in' and that as PVV we are the only ones saying what millions of Dutch people say and sometimes shout: enough is enough, the borders have to be closed, we cannot do it anymore. How come we're the only ones representing these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u186	I sometimes find it frightening to realize that Mr Wilders and I share something. It seems that ancestors of both of us are from Indonesia. I think it's nice that, if you are a product of migration, you can so orientate against migrants. I really can't put that together. But what I find even worse is that Mr Wilders mentioned a fake parliament, said that we would not represent the Dutch people and that the only ones who do so are the PVV Group. What about last Sunday's poll? Mr Wilders likes to point that out. 60% of the people say that Mr Wilders is divisive. And what about kids in schools who make and sell lame tapes to raise money for refugees? What about the locals of the Orange who are organizing a barbecue? What about people who volunteer in asylum seekers' centres to receive these people? These people need to be represented, too, Mr. Wilders. You may speak here and you may speak on behalf of all those who are concerned. But that you really dare, once again, to take the floor almost by saying that they do not speak on behalf of the Dutch people... Where do you get it? If you say we're a fake parliament, you're actually saying that all those people who do volunteering are fake citizens. That's bad. And, you know, we've been used to you insulting us for a long time. That's all right; that goes in one ear and out the other. But you should apologize and say that you are not talking about all those citizens who are trying to make the best of this situation. That's what you should do. That you don't care about the manners of your colleagues, I'm sure. So you should do that; that is the only way you can save yourself a little bit and show that you are not a fake Democrat.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u187	All those people who think that more asylum seekers should be allowed to come, because I do not deny that they are already being represented here by everyone except the PVV. The CDA opens the borders as much as the SP. I see no difference between the Labour Party and the VVD. They all want to keep the boundaries open. My point is not that you represent no one. My point is that the millions of Dutch who say "borders close, enough" are not represented, except by the PVV. We are not yet 10% of the parliament, while nearly 50% of the people find that enough is enough. Then there's a little crooked. Something doesn't add up. Then the representativeness of this Chamber is not proportional to what people in the country think. We can stand up for them. And, Mr. Klaver, I might add that all the people here, the Chamber, don't represent the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u188	I'm sure you can say that. And then I can call you "a fake Democrat." I now point out that there are a lot of people in this society who see what the problems with refugees are and who see how difficult it is to catch all these people here in the country, but who are doing their best. Kids make lame bands to sell them and raise money for these refugees. They too must be represented here. That is why you should not say that the people are not represented or that this is a fake parliament. If you do, you will deprive your colleagues of the right to speak for these other people and to find connections in society. Let me repeat once again: as far as I am concerned, you are a fake Democrat.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u189	I have already said in this debate that everyone here can say what they want, but for the Acts I would like to point out that we have to fight each other on words here. You can do that. You should do that. I will give Mr Wilders an opportunity to respond to this in a moment. However, we do not have to confine ourselves to swearing words. I now give the floor again to Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u190	Mr. Chairman. So I was with the gentleman who had an experience at a pharmacy, who said...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u191	Mr President, on a point of order. Yeah, sigh again, Mr. Wilders. Mr President, you are talking about how we should address each other here and so on. I would like to take back the word 'fake Democrat'. I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u192	I didn't ask you to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u193	I would like to take it back that I mentioned Mr Wilders, but then I want to cross right over. Then he'll have to take it back that we're a fake parliament. Honestly cross!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u194	You don't have to cross with me. The chairman had a problem with your comment, not me. So I'm sticking to my point. In fact, I am even more convinced by that right-hand crossing that what I have said is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u195	Mr President, it is a point of order. I'll talk to you about it. Last time, you let something pass. You appeal to me to call someone a fake Democrat because he is talking about a fake parliament, because he is actually depriving his colleagues of the right to speak about what is happening in society. I'd be happy to take back my words if you think I'm using the wrong words. You didn't ask for it, but I'm offering it to you. Then he should, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u196	I don't want anything at all, and I don't want anything at all from you. I'm gonna keep...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u197	Mr Klaver spoke to me about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u198	I have indeed spoken to you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u199	You're addressing me. I let it pass once. Then it happened again. At that time I said that we would not continue with this hobby, doing such texts, and I suggested that we confine ourselves to the content. This is what I'm trying to raise to new standards. There are people who think this is a good idea, but there are also people who don't think this is a good idea. There are many ways in which we can have the debate without having to lower ourselves to swear words. That's all I said. I will take back the word "down"; you don't even have to ask me that. I would like you to continue the debate. Then try to do it on content. Mr Klaver, I do not want to have this debate with you at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u200	My point is that I do it on content. I deliberately call Mr Wilders a fake Democrat because he blames us all in this Chamber, your Chamber, for being a fake parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u201	I suggest we go back to the debate on refugees. Mr. Wilders, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u202	Dear Mr Wilders, today I was in line for the pharmacy. In front of me were three people, probably from dark Africa. With poor English, the neat Dutch lady behind the counter was completely humiliated because she was a woman and she was accused of discrimination. This only happened because there was a bill of €15 between all free medicines for a vitamin pill bottle that was not reimbursed. The men were asylum seekers and they demanded that they get everything for free. Another gentleman writes: "Dear Mr. Wilders, I walked by the azc with my wife and there were comments made to my wife; I could not understand what they said, but I walked to these people to ask what they wanted and so I was spit on. A gentleman from Houten writes: "Dear Mr Wilders, the municipality of Houten (Christian congregation) has a bad plan with 300 asylum seekers, some who will undoubtedly be even more; they hang out at the mall, they harass women who shop, they look at you like you're the devil and they scream Allahoe akbar in the streets with us. A woman from Wassenaar writes: previously as a single young woman in my own village I could walk quietly on the street in the evening without problems, but lately I have been increasingly harassed by men from the local shelter when I walk down the street; they sizzle, they accidentally run into me, they follow me annoyingly, they speak to me and ask: "Do you have a boyfriend? Do you have sex?'; If I don't respond, all of a sudden they're saying in Dutch that I'm a dirty whore. A gentleman from Nijmegen writes: in the region of Nijmegen I am threatened by a group of asylum seekers; they wanted to touch and attack my girlfriend; we were happily helped by bystanders, but terribly shocked. A gentleman from Emmen says the following: when I was at the station waiting for the train to go to Zwolle we were horribly embarrassed; we were shouted, we were spit; someone wanted to hit my friend; I was pushed over and the most disturbing thing about this failure was that the staff member after I complained said that this is happening and that these people are not used to homosexuality. A woman from Weert writes: Mr Wilders, my female relatives are being called whore; they are being spit on by the refugees here in Weert. Finally, a man from Almere writes: Mr Wilders, I am a bus driver in Almere and we are bothered by all those asylum seekers; they have a huge mouth, they leave crap in the buses, they scream the whole thing together and they often drive black. I could go on like this for another hour. These are the stories you don't read in the papers. These are the stories the Prime Minister isn't talking about. This is the reality of ordinary men and women in the Netherlands. The damage done by all the people sitting here is incalculable. We're not gonna stand for that anymore. We do not accept that this Prime Minister is risking our security, our freedom, our culture, our identity, our money and our future by allowing this Islamic invasion, because that is what it is. The size is full. The boundaries must be closed. This Prime Minister, who is responsible for this, must go. That is why, in my second term, I will be tabling a motion of censure against this cabinet, and I will do so in future in any debate on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u203	I have a small comment in addition to the point of order and the discussion we have just had. The point I make on a point of order does not apply to one person in a debate. These naturally apply to everyone in the debate, including Mr Wilders and everyone else who speaks here. That seemed to me to be another clarifying remark. Maybe it'll help.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u204	Madam President. "It may be distressing for our nation to be called hospitable, but unfortunately the effect is all fatal and disastrous for the poor Dutch citizen. He sees the stranger eating the bread he claimed as a Dutchman and by exhausting the poor funds he is thrown into a pool of accidents and despondently stares at the future which awaits him, without any hope of salvation." Major concerns about the arrival of foreigners were expressed by Mr Hengst. You may not know him, but that was, as he called himself, a pragmatic liberal from the middle of the 19th century and he spoke these words in the House of Representatives in the treatment of the first Foreigner's Law in the summer of 1849. It was also a heated discussion about the concerns that existed and the need for new rules. He was worried and many with him, that the hospitality we offered became a plague and he wondered whether the Netherlands was not a refuge for rascals and helmets. Even then, it was hard for Parliament to deal with that first Alien Law in 1849. But when I read back those debates back then, I feel very comfortable at home, not surprisingly, but nevertheless, with Mr Groen van Prinsterer, who, in that same debate, gave up on hospitality as a virtue and said that the Netherlands had shown in history that it was possible to practice it in people who were persecuted because of their political or religious beliefs and even to others who did not share these views. That was, as he emphasized, the virtue of hospitality, but at the same time he called for sobriety by saying: hospitality ultimately presupposes the right to close the house as security and peace progresses in its own country, if that is advisable. In this tradition, I would also like to pay particular attention to the importance of the reception of refugees, of people in need, including in our own country, and at the same time I would also like to draw attention to the concerns that exist at this time in particular about the arrival of so many foreigners to Europe and also our country. It is also important to make a clear and rapid distinction between people who are allowed to stay here and those who are not allowed to stay here. Our concern is still that, in the wake of the war refugees, many economic migrants join in and hope that everything will last so long that they can stay here. My question is: are we really making any progress at European level in achieving that distinction and returning people who are not allowed to stay here as soon as possible? Also for the war refugees who are allowed to enjoy hospitality here, our legislation assumes that this is for as long as it is necessary. I know a lot of people say: yes, but in practice everyone can stay here forever. We have seen that in the past, for example, the people of Kosovo have indeed been able to return many of them to their countries of origin. Nor should we give the impression that everyone who is now staying here will receive a permanent residence permit here in the future. I have the next question. Are the opportunities already offered by the Aliens' Law used in our time to keep the finger on the wrist to see if people can return to the country of origin, and is the residence permit actually being withdrawn and repatriated? Doesn't our current Foreigner's Law too easily assume that after five years one can stay here permanently? Should it not still be possible, and European directives do not provide a basis for this, in order to say after that five-year period that the situation in the country of origin has improved, we believe that people can still return? Shouldn't our legislation, also in the light of the huge numbers we're dealing with right now, give more room for that? More temporaryity, I think, will also greatly help to increase the support for the reception of foreigners. That is what I wanted to say about the admission and the element of temporaryity, which I would like to draw attention to. We support creative solutions to housing if they can provide basic facilities. This certainly applies to temporary facilities. Not every stranger needs to be able to count on an independent home by definition and immediately. However, we believe that the risk of nuisance should be critically assessed. For example, in the case of sublet rental, this risk may arise earlier. I would also like to draw attention to the concerns I read in the newspapers this morning, for example in Amstelveen. The Central Jewish Consultation raised the question of whether it would be wise to establish asylum seekers in the vicinity of an area with many Jewish institutions. Is there any consideration of the concerns raised by the Central Jewish Consultation? Finally, I come to the SGP motion adopted last week, which specifically calls for attention to be paid to monitoring the external borders of the Schengen area. There was broad support for this issue at the Justice and Home Affairs Council, but no concrete impact was given. What concrete commitment can we expect from the cabinet? How is the motion's request for additional support for countries such as Hungary and Slovenia implemented? I would like to hear the answer from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u205	Mr. Chairman. In recent weeks, the question has often been asked as to what is the fair story about the refugee problem. According to the Christian Union, that story consists of at least two parts. Firstly, there are no simple solutions to this mega-problem; distrust anyone who pretends to have it. Secondly, we will all notice something about it and it will cost us something multiannual. The problem seemed to be running over the shoes of the cabinet over the last few weeks. How is it that the impression is growing that the Prime Minister and his people were being attacked by the growing number of refugees coming to our country? As far as we are concerned, last week the absolute low point was reached in the Drenthe town of Orange, where agreements made with directors and residents were violated, with all the consequences. When will the Prime Minister tell the fair story to the inhabitants of the Netherlands? This is the story that our country will, wherever possible, contribute to solving the problems in Syria and to receiving refugees in the region. That is the story that real refugees are always welcome in our country and that we regard it as a matter of honour to ensure proper reception, taking into account the acceptance and capacity of our people and keeping to agreements made. That is the story in which a word like "mercifulness" may also occur. That is the story that we are committed to ensuring that the care of refugees can also be achieved in the longer term. This weekend there is another European summit. What is the situation with regard to the agreements made in Europe? We are talking about strengthening the so-called hotspots at the external borders. Last week, my colleague, Joël Voordewind, found himself at the border of Macedonia, that about 6,000 people a day, including both migrant workers and refugees, could cross Europe's borders undisturbed and without registration. This undermines the much-needed support for the reception of refugees in society and unnecessarily strengthens the myth that the Netherlands does not receive real refugees. Does the Prime Minister recognise that there is virtually no control, reception and registration at the external borders at present? Is he prepared to seek support for the European selection centres at the external borders, so that the migrant workers can also be sent back quickly? What is the time frame within which this can be achieved? How much does the cabinet value administrative and social relations? How does the cabinet deal with the motion adopted yesterday, the Christian Union co-subscribe; GroenLinks was the first signatory to ask for space for the provision of small-scale reception? That way we spread the shelter and prevent situations like the ones in the Orange last week. I myself was on the spot last Friday and found that broken trust can only be restored if it is quickly returned to the original agreements. Surely that doesn't take any more consultation with the mayor of Central Drenthe? We need to act now. Is the Prime Minister prepared to agree that the COA will never make agreements with real estate owners like Van der Most apart from municipal authorities? This has caused problems in more places. I ask the cabinet, from the very beginning, to involve municipal authorities at possible reception locations. The fair story also applies to reception in the region, one of the pillars of this cabinet. What about the implementation of the motion I myself tabled to the General Political Reviews, in which the Cabinet is asked to ensure not only more money for the reception in the Netherlands, because the budgets are lagging behind what is needed, especially for next year, but also more money for the reception in the region. How's it going with that? I would also like to hear what the Dutch are doing in Brussels. I see a nice list of what the Netherlands has done in recent years, but I do not read much about what the government in Brussels hopes to achieve at the summit. I would like some clarification on that. Finally. I indicated that we should tell the honest story. The honest story is also, even if we look back at the past, that the Netherlands has always struggled with the way we would like to receive refugees. In the First World War, about a million Belgians came to the Netherlands. We were even going to divide the refugees into three categories: dangerous and undesirable elements, less desirable elements and decent destitutes. And we actually wanted them out of the country as soon as possible. In 1935 only the middle Jewish refugees were allowed to enter, All others have to prove that they were really at risk in their country. After the Kristallnacht in 1938, even all Jews were considered undesirable strangers. We saw what happened later. In the 1950s it was the Moluccas, who were largely from Ambon. There were over 12,000 of them. They were largely housed in former concentration camps. They received three guilders a week of allowance and food and clothing vouchers. It's taken them years and years to get a real decent place in our country. In the 1950s, over 3,000 Hungarians entered our country. They were received with a lot of respect. Even our Her Majesty, then Queen Juliana, spoke to her quickly. She even went to the palace with a flag of resistance. It still seems to be in the possession of our royal family. But then Prime Minister Drees did everything he could to discourage it as much as possible. So it's not new that we find it difficult, that we find it difficult. However, this does not diminish the responsibility we bear to do what is within our capabilities to contribute to solving and supporting all those people who are the victims of this terrible struggle that has been going on in Syria for many years. I sincerely hope that we will succeed, with the great political contradictions that exist, in working together as much as possible. It's not gonna be up to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u206	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has traditionally been an immigration country. Throughout the centuries thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people have come to the Netherlands to build a future. In the sixteenth century Jewish people from Eastern Europe and from Spain and Portugal came to the Netherlands to build a future. Recently, a few decades ago, we saw large groups of migrant workers coming to the Netherlands. And we see that over the generations, those people can get a place in society. We see that the grandchildren of these immigrants work in different sectors and contribute to this country. This may also be highlighted when we talk about the flow of refugees. I understand the concerns, but there's also a downside. When we talk about explosions, screaming, fear and crying children, we don't describe a war scene in Syria. Then we're not talking about a description of barrel bombs falling on a neighborhood in Aleppo. This is a description of the storming of the asylum seekers center in Woerden by I don't know who. That storming makes it clear what the call "come in resistance!" Doing so with people and unleashing right-wing harassment out of electoral gain in our society. And not just in our society. We see it in Greece, with the Golden Dawn. We see it in Austria, with the FPÖ. In cities in Germany, neo-Nazis march across the streets. The elected leaders of Hungary and Slovakia are spitting xenophobic "own people first" stories. Extremely right-wing is spreading like an oil stain across Europe. When the Secretary of State was attacked in Orange, the Prime Minister was quiet in Atlanta for a long time. When Wilder's errand boys kicked shit in Utrecht, we didn't hear from the Prime Minister either. When is he gonna show leadership, I'm gonna ask him for the man. What is the Prime Minister going to do to ease the moods in our country on this important issue and to preserve unity? At European level, there is a counter-story in Brussels on the issue of Daash-ISIS. In my contribution of just two and a half minutes, I would like to ask the Prime Minister if it is an idea to counter growing extreme right in Europe. I think that is very important right now. Mr. Chairman. I only have two and a half minutes. There is much more to be said about it and I have much more to say about it, but unfortunately I have to leave it at that before you interrupt me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u207	Mr. Chairman. The European summit on refugee issues will start tomorrow. In short, 50PLUS would like to give the government a strong signal: urge European leaders to take concrete measures to ensure that the European external borders are better monitored, so that we do not go on crummy boats. It's not like that anymore. Does the cabinet see any possibility of more effective surveillance of European borders? Last week it was 2,500. In the previous weeks, numbers of some 4,000 per week were reached. That's a village a week. There are really limits to what we can do in the Netherlands. As much as you'd like to, it just can't be unlimited. It is now about 40,000 people; a community the size of Huizen. The cabinet already speaks of 60,000 a year. Who says it's not going to be 100,000 or 120,000, a city the size of Leiden? What's that? Is the cabinet preparing itself for this, or is there an upper limit that the cabinet takes into account? Trafficking in human beings must be combated and severely punished. Reception should take place even more in the region where possible. How far is Europe with that? What has already been achieved in this area? I'd like to get a response. In the countries of origin, there must be clear information about the limited possibilities we have here. Can this cabinet define the concept of economic refugee? Are economic refugees welcome, yes or no? Does a family from Syria, which has been in Turkey for several months and is now applying for asylum in the Netherlands, fall under that definition? 50PLUS would like to make that clear. Can the cabinet estimate the number of family members that the Netherlands can still expect as a result of family reunification? Is there any possibility of limiting it within international rules, irrespective of whether it is desirable? Finally, two important points. The issue of refugees is not just a matter for the European Union. For 50PLUS, it is a matter for the continent of Europe. Is the cabinet prepared to call tomorrow and the day after tomorrow for a real European summit, with all the countries of Europe? Another point is the following. The people who come here come from conflict zones. How does the cabinet prevent conflicts from being brought into conflict with these people? Does the Cabinet have an eye for that? All these measures are necessary in order to continue to help really poignant cases in the future. A refugee policy with heart and head, strict but just, humane but realistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u208	Mr. Chairman. A country without borders is like a house without walls: it collapses. This is also happening in the Netherlands. It leads to complete disruption of society. This cabinet refuses to close our borders. Rutte II is a danger to the Netherlands. We saw the chaos in the little Orange. 130 inhabitants were willing to take 700 asylum seekers. As a thank you, this Secretary of State doubled through it. Democracy was put out of operation for a while. Asylum seekers receive shelter in monumental villas and migrant hugger Bram van Ojik is appointed special envoy. What a country. The German collective guilt is the nail on the coffin of Europe. This year alone, 1.5 million asylum seekers are coming in. A large part of them will travel to the Netherlands. Chancellor Merkel is completely lost. When does the Prime Minister distance herself from her idiotic and dangerous policy? We always hear from the VVD that the border of the number of asylum seekers is in sight. Tough talk, however, does not fill holes. We'll ask for the third time. What is the maximum number of asylum seekers that the Netherlands is going to take in? I would like to hear a response from the Prime Minister. Everyone sees the VVD performing a play. First, we vote against our motion on discouraging asylum seekers and then we come up with the same plan. The hypocrisy's splashing off. The Netherlands is a beautiful country, but it is destroyed by this coalition. Prime Minister, do what you are appointed to do: protect the Netherlands and close our borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u209	Mr. Chairman. As a rule of law and part of the European legal community, the Netherlands has a moral mission to help war refugees. That is why we have an asylum policy. Under normal circumstances, that seems to function reasonably. However, a system that is not sustainable once every ten years is not sustainable. The future will know more than less people on the run. Since 2013, the number of asylum applications has increased sharply. The situation has become increasingly acute since mid-2014. Since last summer there has been an influx that can no longer be achieved through normal reception. A year ago, the CDA advocated a temporary status for displaced persons, which obviously has fewer rights than permanent status. The coalition didn't want to do that, and I keep regretting that. I keep asking the Prime Minister why not? Why not call for the use of the temporary status directive at European level? In particular, in the areas of housing, government grants and provisions, it is quite possible to provide a more sober package. That's what the Cabinet's coming up with right now. However, none of this has happened in the past year. That is why the cabinet has now grown completely above its head. For a year, the cabinet looked like a rabbit in the headlights of the incoming car. This has ultimately led to the fact that the contradictions surrounding this theme in society have not been so intense in a long time. What happened in the Netherlands, for example, would have been avoided if the cabinet had intervened earlier and if it had looked ahead a year ago. Only last Friday, so much more than a year after that power started, did the cabinet sit with the municipalities and the provinces under the leadership of the Prime Minister. It's a year too late. The Prime Minister himself said during this year's General Reviews that the cabinet for 2016, i.e. the coming financial year, is counting on a significant reduction in the number of applications compared to 2015. There was also no reason to think that there should be money. It could be cleared up. There was no one in the Lower House, except perhaps the cabinet itself, who believed that at the time. Since yesterday, we know from the letter of the Secretary of State what everyone has known for months, namely that the number of applications is increasing. The budget will need to be adjusted for 2016. However, the cabinet does not. It's waiting for the spring note again. The municipalities, which have to arrange all this shelter, have to wait and see. I ask the Prime Minister to change this. Now let him clarify. What's to be done? Then the Chamber will know where it stands and municipalities and provinces will know where they stand. I'm coming to the police. I'm talking to cops who say we can't handle this. Thousands of policemen now need to work on safety at the shelter. That's a logical consequence of the influx. However, the Minister of Security and Justice will not go further than to say: nothing is wrong, the police can handle it. That's not true. In any case, I would like an answer from the Prime Minister to the question of what work remains. How much overtime is being built up to prevent people from doing their jobs by the end of the year? Here too: tell the whole story, and the Chamber will know where it stands. We will soon be discussing the budget of Security and Justice. In addition, it will be about the police. This is part of that. Last weekend it surprised me that the coalition is now using this standstill to get each other on top of each other. The PvdA wants to build 100,000 emergency homes. So we're talking about 100,000 emergency homes, and no one knows how to pay for them. The VVD wanted to get rid of the proliferation of breast enlargements and eyelid corrections in refugees this weekend. We can also do without such texts, because it is simply about the measures that are being taken and we all have a problem that we cannot ignore. Yesterday's letter from the Secretary of State announced a number of measures which I am saying should have been taken earlier. However, now that they are there, we must get to work. If the number of applications continues to increase as is currently the case, we will not avoid limiting the claims per person. Otherwise, it's just not sustainable. From the first day in the Netherlands, a refugee must be made absolutely clear that the Netherlands will fulfil its moral duty towards refugees, but that it is temporary reception aimed at returning after the conflict. I would like to ask the Prime Minister to really make sure that that is clear from day one. Only if the shelter is aimed at returning after the conflict, can we handle it. Moreover, we still fulfil our moral mission. We don't have to be difficult about that at all. The main task is, after all, that temporary reception at the time of a conflict. This also means that the amendment of the Housing Act to adapt the priority regime, a measure now proposed by the Secretary of State, is completely normal. A lot of Dutch people have been waiting for a house for a long time. It is not entirely clear to me whether there is a periodicity in the appointment made by the cabinet. The impression is given a little bit that houses must be built first and that only then can the legislative amendment enter into force. The CDA would say: let's get that new law into effect as soon as possible. Don't make it any harder by tying it all up. I come to the return, an integral part of asylum policy. There is nothing about that in the letter and we do not hear any more about it. That is dangerous, because those who cannot stay must return as soon as possible. Think of the Balkan countries. That is why my question is: how many asylum seekers have actually gone back in recent times and how long do these people stay in the care of whom we already know on entry that they cannot stay? I am thinking here of people from Albania and other Balkan countries. We used to have a 24-hour procedure. I understand it's very busy right now, but these people need to be able to send you back in 24 hours. There will be another European summit tomorrow, and this debate is actually a preparation for that. Tomorrow we will come again to talk about the external borders. What about better surveillance of external borders? In recent decades, Europe has cut off internal borders, but we now see that the external borders have been neglected. The debate in Europe will therefore have to be about better protection of the external borders. As long as it is not enough, we must not declare Schengen sacred, but we must realise that internal border controls are also necessary. That's not drama, it's necessity. The cabinet did something about that, but on paper. I would like to know what is actually happening at the moment about border controls between, for example, the Netherlands and Germany. Is the cabinet prepared to step up these efforts for the same purpose as I mentioned earlier, namely to ensure that people who are not entitled to asylum are returned to the border? Germany seems to be doing the same now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u210	Let's talk about the story of those external borders. I don't blame the CDA for what the VVD keeps trying to tell us, namely that you can close it. Every now and then I get the feeling that Mr Buma says that we can control 13,000 kilometres of European border. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u211	No, and that's what we're running into right now. Let me say the following. It will have to be, we will have to check that border better. It is now becoming interesting and we are going to find each other before Mr Pechtold knows it, because that means that Europe has to do more there, but in a different way than we have done so far. Europe is an economic cooperation, but here we are faced with a very different type of cooperation. We must protect our community of values Europe from insecurity. That means border controls, and we must all work on this, including the Netherlands. As long as that does not happen properly, it is not surprising to say that internal borders should be better controlled in Europe. That's a communicating vessel. That's what we're up against, and that's what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u212	I'm staying alert to the feeling that you can control boundaries at all. I think we have about the most prosperous country in the world. Nor do the Americans keep the border with Mexico closed, nor does the most dictatorial country in the world, North Korea, keep its borders closed. We are now talking about the reception of asylum seekers. That is what the European summit is about, and I hope that the CDA will agree with me: a better distribution of Europe and not a competition in sobriety to pretend that we are making it as little as possible. It's just about proper care, and I hope the CDA stands for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u213	This is about the shelter again. Mr Pechtold's first point centred on the external borders. I really think that these external borders should be better protected. It's gonna cost capacity. Soon we'll be dealing with the defense budget, and the CDA thinks we should get more money there. Part of that control needs to be done by the Department of Defense. It's a question of whether you want it, but it has to be. External border control in Greece is also about Turkey that just sends all those balls through. You can't do that. Yeah, I believe in border control. I do have a limit, and I always get a little cranky when people say no one gets in when we control those boundaries. That's not gonna happen, but we can do better than we do now. I'm finishing up. Time forces me to do that. I have another question about the summit tomorrow, about Turkey. What arrangements are being made there? That's a real hurry. As long as the problem remains in Syria, the source will also have to be addressed. Last week's conclusions of the JHA Council stated that countries needed to step up their efforts on foreign detention. The Netherlands is doing the necessary, but the question is whether what we are doing is sufficient. It is strange that it is not in the provisional Council conclusions of the summit for Thursday. Why not? I will come back to the internal borders. The Netherlands has its own responsibility, but we cannot become an overflow for neighbouring countries. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to discuss with the neighbouring countries how we are going to deal with this jointly: Belgium, Germany and the Netherlands. I'm done with my input and this was a real input, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u214	Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that we are once again discussing an issue which has been on the agenda not only for us but also for society for months. For months now, we have been faced with images of asylum seekers who, often with the help of smugglers, are crossing Europe, on the road to a safe place, on the road to a better life. During the previous debate on this subject, I indicated that we would like nothing more than to prevent further humanitarian tragedies and stop human trafficking. I also drew attention to the disruptive effects that the large numbers of asylum seekers can have on our society. The conclusion of the VVD was and is: open borders and attractive social services do not go together. The reality is that the influx of asylum seekers continues. We have all been able to see the problems that our country faces in recent weeks. Municipalities run against the limits of their support and our residents are concerned: about their living environment, about the tensions in society or about their own place on the housing market or the labour market. Although many understand that we cannot just let people sleep on the streets, it is also clear that it cannot go on like this. The Netherlands needs not only a long-term solution to the huge migration flow, but also a short-term solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u215	The civil war in Syria has lasted about four years. Does Mr Zijlstra think that the Netherlands was well prepared?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u216	Where steps were needed, the cabinet has always taken them. If history teaches us one thing, it is that migratory flows can change very suddenly. We now see the examples of this. I think the Cabinet has done the best it can to prepare itself. In retrospect, you can always say that the current is much bigger than we saw coming a year ago. Was it enough? Well, no, otherwise we wouldn't have had a case like the Orange in the last few weeks. However, that is something other than not being well prepared.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u217	I would like to question that. Mr Zijlstra now says that the current is much larger than we expected last year. Last year, Secretary of State Teeven of the VVD said that in 2015, there will be 65,000. We are now about halfway through, and we are already in emergency and crisis relief. Either it was panic-mongering, or if it had been based on real figures, much more should have been done not to be in emergency and crisis care now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u218	No, it's just a wonderful example of good performance. A year ago, we had a peak of Eritreans. That was the reason at the time. The Secretary of State at the time, I believe, rightly said: if it continues at this rate, it will be 65,000. Mr Pechtold forgets the clause behind the comma:'so we have to do something now'. The cabinet did. Then the influx of Eritreans declined enormously again. The image that Mr Pechtold wants to sketch, at least I get the impression that the cabinet called for something but did not deliver, is not correct. The cabinet has taken action and the influx of Eritreans has shrunk considerably.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u219	I insist that last year the Secretary of State said "there will be 65,000" and that, now that we have reached half that number, we are already in the panic shelter. It's not emergency shelter; it's panic shelter. It has been dragged for 72 hours, sometimes five times in a row, at a time when there is not yet a record and no medical provision has yet been provided. It's panic shelter. People at the COA, who work hard, wonder every night: do we have to let them sleep on the street tonight or not? There's nothing prepared. My point is that part of the unrest and the shaky basis of support comes from the poor preparation that has been made, while there were a large number of people mentioned last year by the Secretary of State. Now it's half and we can't handle it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u220	Let's get the facts straight. A year ago the Secretary of State said: we see a huge peak in the number of Eritreans entering; if this continues, it will be 65,000. We couldn't handle that. That is why action had to be taken. That's what happened. At that time, there was a flow of people-smuggling, which shifted immediately when a number of measures were taken. So there's been a performance. I do not know if Mr Pechtold had anticipated the numbers coming in, but I share his view that we were not ready for that. To be honest, I think that the cabinet deserves a compliment for the fact that it has so far succeeded in ensuring that people do not sleep on the streets. I don't want that to happen. I think it is worth a compliment that the cabinet has succeeded. I think we are about the only country in Europe that has succeeded. There is a lot of criticism, but that may also be said. We have not foreseen these numbers and we cannot cope with them in this way either. It's not just about the people who are inside now, it's about where this ends. Is the end of this migration flow in sight? At the moment, the answer is "no." I think this also causes a lot of unrest in society. I understand that very well. Mr Pechtold is always talking about accommodating the people who are here. If the flow of refugees were to stop tomorrow, we would all solve it in this country. The point is it won't stop tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u221	So we need a sense of reality. Mr Zijlstra has two thoughts, but it is clear that we are badly prepared. The current panicky reactions and the justified unrest among people arise from this. You hear people say: they're in sports halls and they're dragged into buses all the time. Saturday there was a bus for hours in front of the ADO stadium, because they didn't know which way to go. This is in stark contrast to last year when the Secretary of State said: what difference does it make if they are Eritreans or Syrians? It would be 65,000 people. We're halfway there now and we're in the panic shelter instead of in the emergency shelter. Mr Zijlstra keeps saying that they didn't see it coming, but the Secretary of State did cause a panic and now we have a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u222	I'm sorry, but it's not like Mr. Pechtold says. He can always try to reflect the facts a little differently, but that doesn't make it true. I just indicated what the Secretary of State said about this a year ago. That's clear. Anyone can check that out. Mr Buma gave a good example of this in his interruption to Mr Wilders. We have even adopted here in Parliament, at the request of the government, measures to regulate additional asylum reception. Even Mr Wilders has agreed to this. That's what happened. I am not saying that we are ill prepared, but we have not anticipated the numbers coming in over the past month. I dare acknowledge that. Apparently, Mr Pechtold had all this planned a year ago, but we have not been able to foresee it to this extent. Six months ago, we introduced plans in Parliament because we saw a large flow of refugees coming. We would have anticipated that, but in view of the current numbers, I do not blame the cabinet for the fact that it is running over his shoes. Those who had planned these large numbers neatly should come forward. If they had anticipated this situation then, it would have been nice if they had also presented it, rather than saying, looking back, we knew it would be so many.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u223	However, I do not quite understand that from you, Mr Zijlstra. You have always said that we do not introduce the status of displaced persons, which I proposed a year ago. But there is just the possibility to focus immediately on return, to be more sober and to shift the core from "to integration in the Netherlands" to what is actually needed, namely "temporary care focused on return." What has only happened now under high pressure, after a weekend in which you have bombarded each other with fire arrows, there was also a letter just before this debate, if you had realized a year ago that austerity, simplification of everything, would be a solution for housing all these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u224	There is also a misunderstanding here. I know what Mr Buma said about the status of displaced persons about a year ago. It's just that that status isn't a solution at all. We said that then and we're still saying that now. First of all, we don't formally know that status. We can introduce them. A person who has an displaced person's status shall have the right to apply for asylum at any time he so wishes. If you're from Syria, you know it's being honored right now. If you attach to the status of displaced persons sober facilities and not to the temporary residence permit, then I think everyone knows, including Mr Buma, what that means. I believe that the number of people who voluntarily remain in displaced persons and do not apply for asylum will be close to zero. That's not gonna solve anything. If Mr Buma meant that a year ago, he expressed that somewhat euphemistically. In any case, it has not penetrated the rest of us that he also meant that the provision for people with temporary asylum status should be reduced. He didn't say that at the time. We made that proposal last weekend.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u225	It was an displaced person's status, in which there was a austerity. The strange thing is this. Let's let that status go. The point is that when you see that there are a lot of applications coming up, you have to see in time that you have to cut back on claims. What have we learned from the past? In 1994, 1995 and 1998 it always happened afterwards. There was a peak, later we shattered it and the weather dropped. I keep saying that this was the opportunity to do it earlier. I will say immediately: now that it is there, the CDA also wants to cooperate to ensure that it goes as well as possible, provided that it does not again bounce the ball between the coalition partners. That's my point. This really should have been anticipated sooner by obsessing earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u226	I cherish Mr Buma's words that it is a good thing that the proposal is here and that the CDA wants to participate in it. That's very good. Regardless of what we predicted or did not foresee a year ago, my claim is that a status of displaced persons with sober facilities does not make much sense because they then immediately move on to a temporary status. Then you don't solve the problem. It's good that we can find each other on what's ahead now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u227	I find Mr Zijlstra talking about luxury amenities. Just now there was an interruption about austerity. What exactly does Mr Zijlstra mean by "deviation"? I read here: refugees can do just fine with a couple of tens a month; the temporary stay award should no longer be issued for five years, but the situation should be reviewed every year. Is that the only meaning of "destruction" or is there more to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u228	I launched a whole plan last Saturday with all kinds of austerity. I can read the whole plan. In that it has become very clear what the VVD thinks of it. It's about why people come here and what you can do about it. For example, there should be no right to both assistance and allowances and a right of priority to a rental house. That's all very clearly in that plan. The temporaryity has also been mentioned. Our preference is for that licence to be issued every year. We've made proposals. I should also like to take this opportunity to anticipate that, as Mr Kuzu will no doubt be discussing this question with the cabinet and our coalition partner last Monday. They have also submitted plans. We are now looking at how we can bring together a solution in this Parliament, bringing together the best of both plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u229	In that interview it was also about breast enlargements, dental reconstructions and eyelid corrections, but well. In the meantime, I understand that Mr Zijlstra has come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u230	Let me put it this way...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u231	Mr. Chairman. I have the floor. I wonder if Mr Zijlstra has been in crisis relief. We then talk about sports halls where hundreds of people often sit at the same time. They have two square meters with a cot and a chair to hang their clothes. Does Mr Zijlstra think that is sober enough? Does he think it's sober when 80 people have to use one bathroom? Isn't that sober enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u232	That's sober. Mr Kuzu is now talking about crisis relief, but I am talking about what happens if someone is granted temporary asylum status. The crisis relief has arisen because the numbers are so large now and we have no other option. People living in an azc in the Netherlands are normally in procedure. When that procedure is completed, they are expelled because they are not refugees, or are granted temporary residence status because they have been established to be refugees. In its plan, the VVD asked how we deal with the level of provision for people with temporary status. So Mr Kuzu is confusing two things that have nothing to do with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u233	I note, however, that there is also a prospect of permanent status in the case of temporary licences after the expiry of that temporary status. Mr Zijlstra, with his plans, is making sure that people who have fled their country for security reasons, because they are no longer sure of their lives, are left behind in, for example, participation in society or language learning. I think this is witnesses of going in the right-hand stream. The VVD is a right-wing party, but it is now very close to Mr Wilders. I do not think it is a good idea for Mr Zijlstra to do this out of electoral importance without contributing to the solution of the problem. That is my main objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u234	If Mr Kuzu blames me for being right, this will not really work as an objection. I hear several parties saying that all the "scratch" is motivated by electoral reasons. Sorry. The VVD is a political party and the largest in the country. She submitted a plan. Some come no further than a slip of the tongue from me that was a mistake. I've admitted that ten times. If Mr Kuzu continues to focus on this, we will not get anywhere. We have submitted a plan covering the whole extension of the question: how do we deal with this problem? We're here to solve problems. We have a huge problem in society. We see the support level crumbling and the influx increasing. Then don't sit here and talk about electoral reasons. That Mr Wilders does that or Mr Klaver or I, we are all politicians. However, we have one responsibility: we must ensure that this problem, with which the whole of the Netherlands is struggling, is resolved. We have contributed to this and it would be very good for other parties to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u235	I don't want to talk about Saturday's VVD plan. I don't think there was a word of Spanish there. I want to talk about what was agreed on Monday. This has been communicated and we received a letter from the cabinet last night on the direction. I have already asked Mr Samsom about this. I have asked, for example, whether all the measures that are being taken or the other implementation of the assistance are aimed at making it less attractive for refugees to come to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u236	At the risk of getting to grips with the exchange of views on this point between Mr Samsom and I, the following. We start from very different positions. I believe, as a VVD, that it has a deterrent effect when you arrange sober shelter for people with temporary status. I'm okay with this happening. Mr Samsom does not believe this and I can hardly force him to believe that. There is therefore a difference of opinion here. As a VVD guy, I didn't file the plan for nothing. The texts that have been produced show that we have looked at the actual situation. We see that many people who come to the Netherlands, although they are from a war zone, have sometimes been refugees for some time in a safe country. They have therefore travelled for a reason other than primary safety. We also see that the vast majority of people who travel and come this way actually ends in three countries: the Netherlands, Germany and Sweden. I do not really believe in coincidence; those are also the countries where the level of provision is highest. That is the essence of our plan. This problem is not only solved by catching the people who are here in a neat, but sober manner. In the opinion of the VVD you should also do something about the influx. We believe this will work. I do not think Mr Samsom believes this, but you can differ on that. We both think there should be a decent, just, but sober shelter. The cabinet has to work that out. It's not that simple to do that. There are plans from the PvdA, there are plans from the VVD. It is now up to the cabinet to bring together the best of these two plans and to ensure that we get the problem under control.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u237	I was really under the impression that the parties were out last Monday. Then there's a plan. That's no longer a VVD plan or a PvdA plan, because then you've found each other. What their parties stand for is not what I appeal to Mr Zijlstra and to Mr Samsom. That is obvious; I believe so. It's also very good if you bring that up; I don't have a problem with that. However, once you have reached a compromise and policy has been formulated, what is the objective of that policy? You can say that you think it will have a different effect, but in the end it is also important to know what you think you are doing with that policy. If you opt for more sober houses because you think you can accommodate more people, that's different than you opt for more sober houses because you think that means fewer people come to the Netherlands. That's exactly the question I'm asking. Is the aim of the policy that is now being pursued, of the direction that the government should pursue according to the coalition parties, to reduce the number of people coming to the Netherlands? Is that the objective for Mr Zijlstra?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u238	For Mr Zijlstra, yes, but Mr Zijlstra is here as representative of the VVD. Mr Samsom spoke about this. The cabinet itself is about the purpose that the cabinet makes of it. I think it's a semantic discussion. The parties have different views on different measures. Sometimes you can fly one measure from two different thoughts. One does it for reason one, the other does it for reason two, but then it can still be so that you do it. In the cabinet period of the past three years, many of the measures we have taken here in many areas over the past three years have been supported by the PvdA in a different way than by the VVD. Yet we did it together. We believe that's how it works, but the PvdA doesn't. Then that's not the purpose of cabinet policy, but it's mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u239	I will also ask the Prime Minister what is now the aim of the policy that is ultimately being drawn up. The question, however, is what signal, what message, will you send to society when you constantly make compromises, the purpose of which is always explained in a different way. What kind of direction do you suggest with that? That's the point I want to make. I have another question about assistance and the few tens which Mr Zijlstra spoke about. I asked Mr Samsom the same question. If you get something in kind, it doesn't matter whether it's housing, health insurance or any other business, that's deducted from your benefit, but the right you have net is not affected. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u240	Frankly, Mr Samsom's answer was very clear to me. I will try to say it in the same way so as not to create the image again that we do not agree. I'm gonna get our plan. In that we have said: you start at zero and you do a number of things. Then you all have to change laws. It was not always the same willingness to do so. "In kind" we know in the Netherlands. We're just trying to solve a problem in a practical way. If you pay out a welfare allowance in kind, you start with the level of welfare. That's where the cost of a home goes, other housing costs, healthcare costs: basically all the costs the government makes for you. Then there's an amount left. Mr Samsom spoke of about €250, it will be on that. That's what you come up with, and that's what you call pocket, living, or eating money. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u241	The fact that there is a difference of opinion between the coalition parties on the elaboration and the question of whether it should be more or less us is not such a big problem in itself. It happens all the time. It is important that we know what the basis is, also the basis of the plans and the agreements that have already been made. I have asked Mr Samsom whether it is true that austerity will not become a policy instrument for foreign policy. I have also asked him whether all the international conventions we have agreed on refugees apply in full. The same applies to the Convention on the Status of Refugees, in which the famous article states that you are treated in the same way as the inhabitants of a country, if you are lawfully on the territory of that country. Mr Samsom replied in the affirmative. Can Mr Zijlstra give the same confirmation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u242	Sure. Last weekend, we submitted our plan, which, by the way, is different from the government's plan. A different methodology has been used. In the plan we strive for austerity. Both fit within the current laws and regulations and treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u243	That's very nice to know. The question that remains is how we deal with the large influx of refugees in practice. At least it's a bigger influx than we'd imagined in the past period. This leads to a slightly different discussion than if we came to the foundations of agreements that have already been made and which apply internationally. I like that because I think we might be able to find each other a lot better. In the General Political Reviews, I drew attention to the way in which we should deal with this. At the time, I already pointed out that the cabinet had misjudged the development of the number of refugees. In the next year's budget, the number of refugees is even adjusted downwards. I believe it is at 26,000 or 27,000, when we are already almost at 40,000. So these are very different numbers. The Chamber has adopted a motion requiring the cabinet to ensure that extra money is made available. The VVD Group did not support this motion. Is Mr Zijlstra of the opinion, seeing what is happening, that extra money is necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u244	I will end the various elements of this interruption. We have to stay within the treaties. The VVD didn't take a few weeks to present the plan for nothing. As a government party, we believe that plans put forward in the Chamber should be possible without having to visit the UN, the European Commission or the Council of Europe. Because then we would be infinitely long. That has always been our approach. We have indeed said that we want austerity, that may be clear. Additional money for the current asylum flow will indeed be needed. However, I have not heard the cabinet say that it does not want to make money available. I have heard the cabinet say that there are a number of fixed moments in the year when budgets are adjusted. If you're gonna do that every time based on weekly or monthly figures, you're gonna stay busy. In procedural terms, I thought that was a good point. The cabinet doesn't say it's not going to pay: I don't even think the cabinet has a choice. I share the view that the money should be available in places where it is needed. However, I still agree with the cabinet that you should do so at the times set for that and not every time something has come up about high figures in the media. That is why we did not support the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u245	What is involved is the mistaxation of the number of people who would come to the Netherlands. Even on the basis of the figures that were already available in recent months, you could know that it would be higher numbers. You didn't have to study for that. However, the cabinet has chosen to base its budget on a lower number. Let us try to clarify the costs as quickly as possible. I think this is important. For the current care system, it is also important for municipal authorities to know that there is sufficient money, for example if there is training for the children. Last Friday, I saw a wonderful example of how this is done in the Netherlands. There, however, we are running against the limits in terms of finance and rules that we have in the Netherlands. We must try to find solutions to this as soon as possible and not keep everything until the official moments. That only adds to the problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u246	I now hear Mr Slob's basic constructive attitude, but it is precisely for this reason that we must be careful to talk in this kind of imagery. In my opinion, the cabinet is simply arranging such provisions, if they are needed, and the cabinet is not hindered by the fact that they run into some sort of budget wall. I think the Cabinet is very busy dealing with the things that are needed. It is my belief that this will lead to an adjustment of the budget. We have moments for that and then the cabinet has to do it. I am not yet very far in my speech, but I do not think it is possible to say what I have said and what I am going to say in a moment that I would feel that the influx of asylum is going to decrease enormously in the coming period. That fact has its consequences, including financial ones. The cabinet's gonna have to take care of it. Let me pass this on to the cabinet: I would like to hear from the cabinet how it deals with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u247	A specific focus on the subject of education that I mentioned. You have been the Secretary of State for that Ministry, so you know that there are counting dates and that funding is not received until later on the basis of a counting date. You can see that there is indeed a tow with children in schools: on Fridays they are still there, on Mondays they have disappeared, without being able to say goodbye properly; then there are new children again, and the other ones come back. So things are very different, but there is still that date of counting and that method of financing. Of course, it doesn't work that way. We should just take a very practical look at it and really get away from how we once agreed on it. Those are the moments, so act!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u248	Again, these are two different things. You need to solve practical problems. I think I heard the Minister for Social Affairs and the Prime Minister last Friday about this. It was about assistance, about the time when assistance was being looked at. Now there is a rapid influx, so the moment of measurement must now be brought closer because otherwise the municipalities are taking a huge risk. I have already seen an example of a practical problem which Mr Slob was talking about. I see the cabinet acting on that point, and that's good. What can, can; what cannot, cannot. It's all of those things. I see that the cabinet is working on solving the acute problem that is now facing us. In addition, I believe that budgetary adjustments should be made at the times that have been created for this purpose. In recent weeks we have seen many asylum seekers crossing the border of our country. Many said it: last month alone there were 13,000. Let me say first of all that we do not blame them. If I were in front of such a choice, I think I would do the same. But that is precisely why I also understand that we cannot offer that choice to everyone. We cannot record anyone who would like to be here in the Netherlands. We want to take responsibility, but with these large numbers comes the end of our society's capacity. We don't want it to get that far. We have to assume that this flow of migration will continue. That is precisely why we must provide a solution to this problem in the short term. That's why we have to dissect it first, I told you. It's a fact that a lot of people have fled their homeland. But it is also a fact that they had often found safety elsewhere: in their own region or in a southern European country, where their boat landed. Yet these people have chosen to leave that safe place and to travel again, often through several safe countries, on their way to a place where they prefer to build their future. That place is in many cases in our country, in Germany or in Sweden; so in those countries that are furthest away, but are still the most popular. In our view, the reason for their transit is two-fold. The first is that they can go to the Netherlands. This is mainly due to the Dublin Convention, which requires people who apply for asylum in Europe to do so in the first country in which they enter. At the moment, we see every day that that treaty does not actually exist in its implementation anymore. That's why they can go on. The second reason is that asylum seekers want to come to the Netherlands. This is partly due to our extensive social services. The VVD does not want to risk the social services of Dutch people. For us politicians, it is our job to guard them. We must therefore ensure that asylum seekers come to the Netherlands as little as possible for economic reasons. That sounds harsh, but there's no other way. In all honesty, we cannot prevent these people from entering our country. The boundaries are closed; it sounds decisive, but it is not very realistic. Our border has more than 400 border crossings and is 1,27 unguarded kilometres long. Putting a fence around our country is impossible. In fact, you shouldn't. So there's no stopping it. So we have to make sure they don't want to cross the border. This can only be done if we ensure that the Netherlands is unattractive to those who are not looking for security here, but above all a better economic future. This is why the VVD has put in place the plan last weekend to stop providing people with temporary residence status with the same facilities as Dutch people. The facilities that make our country so attractive that they pass through are a welfare allowance with all kinds of supplements, take precedence over a rental house and all health care we have in the Netherlands. Let it be clear that everyone with temporary residence status is entitled to food, care and shelter. The essence of our plan is that this is done on a neat but sober basis. It must be made clear that we continue to keep an eye on the temporary nature of the stay of this group of people. The starting point is that they will return when the situation so permits.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u249	Is sober an end in itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u250	That is a kind of repetition of what Mr Klaver just asked. So I'm gonna answer that the same way. I think austerity is a goal. Then I am speaking here as a representative of the VVD. I don't know if it's the same for the Cabinet. I think Mr Samsom was pretty clear about this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u251	Slowly it gets clear to me. So that word "sober" must somehow have something terrifying. But I'm really wondering if you're getting more sober here than you are in Syria. No, I don't think so. Fortunately, therefore, Mr Samsom says: it is not an end in itself. But I do get the feeling that Mr Zijlstra is saying this out of some kind of embarrassment, because he must now also admit that you cannot close the borders, not that of the Netherlands and certainly not that of Europe. By the way, the VVD suggested this time and again and then said: this is European policy. That is nonsense has now all been shown. And now there's that fear in that word "sober." Can you explain that a little bit more? If we make this sober, what do you hope will happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u252	I hope this will happen, and I think we will see it happen. If you have decent but sober facilities, then the people who come here not for safety but for economic reasons, namely for social services, will make a different choice. What is the reason why they end their journey in the three countries where social services are so high? That's not because they're so low.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u253	Everyone here, I think, agrees with Mr Zijlstra that we need to clarify the registration of those who come from safe countries, such as European countries, as soon as possible. Apart from those cases, I do have a question. Suppose you accept a Syrian here in accordance with our international treaties and our own laws and regulations, using the five-year term. Then what good is it to take things away from someone? This increases the problem and reduces the chances of integration for those who remain. I am thinking of unemployment, the right to benefits and other problems. For the VVD, I'll add security and crime. Perhaps that will stimulate Mr Zijlstra. By emphasising that austerity, you're achieving the opposite, aren't you? Do it decently, like we did, and don't play word games. In practice, it does not seem to be so much more sober.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u254	I think it's very important that it's sober. Maybe that'll give them more of a push. I was just ready for that part of my speech. We have no problem with these people going to work and learning Dutch. I think that's already happening, but we'll be hearing it from the cabinet in a minute. It is only good if people learn Dutch from the first day that they have a status here. Whether they're here one, two or three years, it's all fine. In my opinion, everyone in the Netherlands thinks it is wise for people who walk the streets to speak Dutch. Do it! Acknowledging diplomas in a faster way than now? Do it! It's fine if people can provide their own livelihoods by going to work. We are not going to oppose that at all, on the contrary. They'll have to do it by themselves. If they do, that's very good. So do not come to me with the remark that we are putting these people away for five or seven years in a hopeless situation. They also have the opportunity to get out. They can go to work, but they have to do it themselves. We don't want them coming here because of the level of social security that you get when you have a permanent permit or are naturalized. We want there to be a more sober level for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u255	Can Mr Zijlstra imagine that people get the wrong idea when he sometimes communicates in chocolate newspaper letters and sometimes here, after asking through, sounds much more nuanced? It was Mr Zijlstra who spoke of eyelid corrections and the rest of that misery. It was Mr Zijlstra who said in a debate on TV that there are as many people as the city of Utrecht has inhabitants. That's where 300,000 people live. Mr Zijlstra lived there himself. That's a ten-time exaggeration! So, Mr Zijlstra, every time, including with the word sober, you pretend that we have a big problem that we should not push away and that we should especially like to see, where we really put people at the very minimum. And when we ask a bit about government policy in practice, it is said that we are not going to change the welfare law, we are not going to change education suddenly, we are not going to change anything. The only thing you have with the PvdA is a kind of difficult whole and for which we still need a whole change of law, housing. And then when you're asking what that means, it actually means that you're going to have to accept that you live in a house with a couple of people for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u256	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u257	So my question is to Mr Zijlstra: why this panic-mongering every time? After all, it turns out that the questioning is not so bad, and fortunately we are still a civilized, decent country that is indeed receiving it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u258	I do not believe that on the weekends I argued for an uncivilized, indecent country. I have advocated a country that takes care of people with temporary status in a neat, sober way. And that means something. With regard to those chocolate letters, you can always refer to that example, which I myself already nuanced in the article, but then you just walk away from the discussion we are having here: how are we going to get that influx under control and get it back? And what I have said about a city like Utrecht, I can explain to you; there is no difference in that regard as well as what I said in that article. Over the past month, we've had about 13,000 people. If that continues, so I have also said................................................................................................................... That's right. You can run away from that, but it's a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u259	300,000... this is almost worse than Wilders. 300,000, there hasn't been a year since 300,000 have entered. The counter is now about 40,000 and we are now living in the middle of October. How can you say we're getting into a city like Utrecht? Then I blame you for the 'chest enlargements', Mr Zijlstra, but I blame you for all the 'eyemember corrections' and all the panicmongering. Do you really insist that 300,000 men can come in this year? Well, then we should probably go get them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u260	D66 was against the calculation test and now it turns out why, because if you get 13,000 a month, then you multiply that number by twelve and if you multiply that total number by three or four again because of the family reunification, then Mr Pechtold doesn't like it, but then it is the actual situation. Then Mr Pechtold wants to run away from that and then Mr Pechtold pretends that there is no such problem, but I can tell him that this sum is right. Maybe we should enter the calculation test, because with you, Mr Pechtold, it is much needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u261	The sum may be correct, but there are a number of assumptions that are at least debatable, but that is not the question I would like to ask Mr Zijlstra. He was talking about people going back. I read in the newspaper this morning that the Minister for Social Affairs has said that about 80% wants to go back. When I talk to asylum seekers, I hear the same thing: I really want to go back. But the question is how many really go back. In the past many migrants have also come here, such as migrant workers we have brought here ourselves and people who fled the war and violence there. From that last group we know that about two thirds stayed in the Netherlands. So isn't it the wrong idea to say that these people are going back and we're not organizing the resistance for five to ten years from now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u262	I've already indicated that these people have temporary status. Temporarily that word is, I think, pretty clear..... is temporary. So the plan is for these people to go back. The Yugoslavs are a good example. With the Yugoslavs, the situation there lasted so long that they all received a permanent licence and therefore many did not go back. If you have a permanent licence we as a VVD itself have said so in our plan then you have a permanent permit for a reason. That word permanently is also quite clear. If you have a temporary permit and the situation at home in the region has become safe, then you have to go back. We need to be clear about that, too. That doesn't mean those people can't do anything. Learn Dutch and make sure they can manage in society here. If they can and want to work, let them work, very well, but then it must also be clear that the work is never a reason to say to those people when, for example, the situation in their country will change in two years' time: you work here, so now you can stay. This applies only to a person with a work permit who carries out a job which is badly needed in Dutch society. Based on that, he got that license.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u263	I hope that in two years' time the situation in Syria will be such that people can go back. In fact, I think a lot of people want to go back in two years. The reality of today is that it only becomes more complex every day. It is realistic to say that it may take ten years before the situation there has improved and people can return. In the meantime, people don't put their lives on hold, they don't sit still. Maybe they'll start a family and have kids growing up here. The fact remains that these people have built a life here, have begun again. It's not realistic to send these people back after ten years. Those kids have no idea where their parents come from and they don't speak the language. That is why I say to Mr Zijlstra: it would be nice if many people went back to their country, and it is also good for those countries to build a firm middle class there, but the reality is that many people will stay in the Netherlands. It is good to give this to the Dutch people from day one as well, because otherwise we will turn them into a fool. In five or ten years, we'll have made people a promise we can't keep.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u264	There's a contradiction being created here that I haven't laid down. Temporary is temporary. If, in the five-year period of the temporary permit, the case changes at home, then the right to asylum must be withdrawn and the right to asylum abolished. It must not be so, and that is what I fear when I listen to Mr Klaver say that you can stay because you have had children and work here, or for any other reason. I think you should be clear. People who get a permanent permit after five years can stay. They can go back, but most of them stay. That's the reality, that's right. But people with temporary permits must also be given that clarity: you must go back. If we give these people hope, I will taste that in Mr Klaver's words, but perhaps wrongly, if they are well integrated, they really do not have to go back, even if they do not have asylum status, then we are doing it wrong. We also need to be ready for these people: temporary and when it's safe again, you have to go back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u265	The criticism I have of Mr Zijlstra's remarks is that he prevents everyone from going back. Maybe he didn't say "everyone," but that's how it looked to me. I have a comment to make. However, if he says that people with temporary permits should be returned when the situation is stabilised, that is a legitimate position. But the fact remains that it is likely to take much longer than five years and that is why a lot of people will stay here. I would be so pleased if Mr Zijlstra of the largest party in this Parliament would also emphasise that. That way we can work on a basis for a lot of new countrymen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u266	Again, you can try to make it a contradiction. I say on the one hand: do with these people those things that are wise to make sure that they can get to work, that they learn Dutch, that we recognize diplomas and you name it. We all have to do that. On the other hand, we also emphasise for them that temporary is temporary. If they get a permanent permit at some point, the situation will change. I've always been ready for that, because the word "permanent" means something else. Whether the war in Syria is over in one, two, three or five years, we don't know. We do see that changes in these areas can happen very quickly. Either you have a massive escalation in one go and something gets out of hand, or you get a huge sum of things in one go and it gets more or less under control, as far as you can talk about that in that region. We don't know. I am responsible for how we deal with people in this country who have status, what status they get and what that means. The temporary status is now five years. If at that time the situation changes at home, you go back. Mr Klaver says that people with permanent permits remain. That's right. It would be good if, for example, Mr Klaver stressed: "Dear people, even if you have a job, even if you have children here, if you have to go back if you have a temporary status, then you have to go back and we don't get out in pardon arrangements and so on."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u267	Now the Telder Foundation, the scientific agency of the VVD, says: nothing to do with it, the Refugee Convention does not apply, the people who now enter the Netherlands by buses must immediately return to the first safe country they come from. Mr Van Schie of the VVD Scientific Bureau has said so. That's a renowned agency, isn't it? I would like to hear a response from Mr Zijlstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u268	I think that is what we proposed in the spring. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u269	This means that the asylum seekers or, rather, the migrants who enter the country are deported immediately or as soon as possible to the first safe country, i.e. not the country they originally come from, not Syria, but Turkey or Greece, for example. That's what he says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u270	At the end of March we submitted the Azmani plan. That plan has that as a starting point. If you can get into a safe haven in the region, you have to go back. The European Union's treaties, in the conclusions, state that you can declare the asylum application of such a person inadmissible. The only thing that we do not yet have is that this is a crucial point: we are safe and good reception camps in the region. We're working on that right now. Once that's settled, that's exactly what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u271	That's not what the science bureau says. That says: to the first safe country from which they came. That could be Greece or Turkey, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u272	That is also at the heart of Dublin. Honestly, that's a little bit on the street right now. As a politician, not a scientist, I have to deal with the practice of the day. That is why I submitted a plan last weekend and Mr Azmani presented a plan on behalf of the VVD earlier this year. The cabinet is working on it about every day. We are trying to get this under control and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u273	A good point: make sure that temporary is also really temporary. That's gonna get us more support. I do have a question in this context. Do I understand correctly that the VVD declares that period of five years more or less sacred? Is it always permanent after those five years, even if after six years the situation in the country of origin has improved and people could return? Are there no more possibilities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u274	That's how it is now. My view is that it should be extended and that we can look at it in a different way. I'm gonna start with the current situation, if you don't mind. I always like discussion. If, in five years' time, you see that is the hard part of a fixed term, it is a peace process going on in Syria and you have the idea that the war could end within six months, it would be very crazy in the opinion of the VVD to say that we are giving them a permanent licence, even if they may return in six months' time. I would like to have that discussion, but I am now starting from the current policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u275	Clear. Then I have another point in this connection. I hear the VVD arguing for more opportunities to work. Of course, that appeals to everyone. Let's get asylum seekers busy. In the past, proposals for enlargement have failed in the end. The cabinet wanted to prevent a claim to WW, supported by a majority in parliament. It was also feared that this might be an independent attraction. After all, through the labour migration gate you could easily enter, but via the asylum gate you could easily get to work. How does the VVD weigh up these two objections which have in the past prevented an increase in the employment opportunities for asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u276	Asylum seekers with temporary status are already allowed to work. After all, they are aligned through the Linking Act. So it's okay. The discussion that Mr Van der Staaij is talking about is about people who are in procedure. It dates back to the time when the procedure lasted for a very long time. At that time, the question was, what are you doing with these people? Are people allowed to work in an asylum-seekers' centre in the asylum procedure or not? We don't change those rules. However, people who are given temporary status are already allowed to work. We also say: do it above all else. By helping them with diplomas and learning the Dutch language, we ensure that they can participate, but for the rest they have to do it themselves, because I do not want them to be favoured over the Dutch unemployed. If they have a status and are legally resident here, they simply participate in this society in their own way. I've already talked about work. What could we possibly be obsessed with? If you deduct all the costs of a welfare allowance, you will have about €250 left to eat and live on, as Mr Samson just said. That seems to us to be a sensible move. Once all these measures have been implemented, there will be clear consequences. In our opinion, this makes the Netherlands unattractive for people who come here because of social services. That will put a clear brake on the flow of migration that we are seeing today. People who want to come here for economic reasons will often refrain from doing so. We have talked a lot about it, but it is now up to the government to implement it politically. Our coalition partner, the PvdA, has also come up with solutions. We want to combine the best of both plans into a solution that can count on a majority in the Chamber. I welcome the discussions we have had over the last few days on this subject. Two parties are looking for a solution to a major problem. I believe that we are able to achieve a just but also sober reception for people with temporary residence status. The cabinet and the coalition see that they must join forces and come up with a solution. That is what the Netherlands is asking of us, and that is right. We are therefore confident that other parties in this Chamber too, Mr Buma and Mr Slob have already responded very positively, and that our solutions will not immediately be rejected. After all, we are facing a serious crisis that requires responsibility from everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u277	Chairman and fellow-lucky seekers. The statue is already old. People looking for a new habitat in crappy boats, where they can find prosperity in combination with a safe life. Feeding boats to Indonesia, to Brazil, to Suriname, to the United States. In all parts of the world there are signs of Dutch happiness seekers who tried their happiness with varying results. Gold, silver, spices, narcotics, tea, coffee. An important part of our prosperity is built on our adventurous ancestors. Happiness seekers avant la lettre. And we're still looking for happiness, all of us. We drill far from home to oil. We get cheap green beans from poor countries where there is drought. We cut down rainforests to grow cattle feed. And when we look at the people who are coming here, are we talking about lucky seekers or victims of war and of, among other things, our fortune search? As long as the causes of the flow of refugees have not been removed, we will have to deal with people in need in such a way that it can be borne by the Netherlands and by Europe. How is the cabinet going to ensure that the European redistribution of refugees will work, in order to prevent the support for reception from falling? How can Member States effectively address each other on their own responsibility to receive refugees? Juncker says today that the Member States are not doing what they have promised. I'd like to get a reaction to that. It is a bad idea to accommodate large groups of asylum seekers isolated from society. It is much better to place refugees in small groups, to register them adequately and to use trauma processing and integration from day one, by teaching them our language as well. Ms (PvdD): For years, the cabinet has allowed the shortage of social housing to run down, and now it is going to arrange containers for refugees with a residence status. This way of doing things, the cabinet can't be proud of that. The cabinet and the municipalities together must make every effort to make more social housing available. In this way, both Dutch citizens and refugees with a residence status come to a home without conflict. If we want refugees to have safe and decent accommodation in their own region and to be able to build a life, we will now have to invest in it, by increasing the budget for development cooperation. Of every €100 we earn here, less than €0.70 goes to development projects that are designed to tackle the structural causes of war and poverty at the source. This contribution should be increased, but the cabinet is currently doing the opposite by removing aid money from the region and spending it on shelter in the Netherlands under the motto that reception in our own country is also development cooperation. In a world increasingly affected by overconsumption, climate change and conflicts, we will have to deal with the prevention of refugee flows. It is very short-sighted that this debate is hardly being held. Religious differences between people are only a small part of the cause of the problems. There is hardly any mention in this house of the already demonstrated links between refugee flows and the lack of the most basic needs such as water and food. And the extreme drought, which is partly caused by climate change. There is hardly any mention of the role played by the Netherlands in destabilizing regions. The increasing refugee flows should be a wake-up call instead of a party political fitness between two ruled government partners. We need to look at our trade and walk in the vulnerable regions and radically review our foreign and trade policies. We will have to acknowledge that we often behave like lucky seekers in other countries and consume more than the earth can handle. Let us take our role seriously in destabilizing the world and the climate. In this context, too, I believe that there should be an end to the bio-industry's predatory work. Thank you. Chairman and fellow-lucky seekers. The statue is already old. People looking for a new habitat in crappy boats, where they can find prosperity in combination with a safe life. Boats that took to Indonesia, to Brazil, to Suriname, to the United States. In all parts of the world there are signs of Dutch happiness seekers who tried their happiness with varying results. Gold, silver, spices, narcotics, tea, coffee. An important part of our prosperity is built on our adventurous ancestors. Happiness seekers avant la lettre. And we're still looking for happiness, all of us. We drill far from home to oil. We get cheap green beans from poor countries where there is drought. We cut down rainforests to grow cattle feed. And when we look at the people who are coming here, are we talking about lucky seekers or victims of war and of, among other things, our fortune search? Mr President, as long as the causes of the flows of refugees have not been removed, we will have to deal with people in need in such a way that it can be borne by the Netherlands and by Europe. How is the cabinet going to ensure that the European redistribution of refugees will work, in order to prevent the support for reception from falling? How can Member States effectively address each other on their own responsibility to receive refugees? Juncker says today that the Member States are not doing what they have promised. I'd like to get a reaction to that. Mr President, accepting large groups of asylum seekers isolated from society is a bad idea. It is much better to place refugees in smaller groups, which are properly registered. And from day one, focus on trauma processing and integration, by learning our language as well. For years, the cabinet has allowed the shortage of social housing and it is now going to arrange containers for refugees with a status of residence. This way of doing things, the cabinet can't be proud of that. The cabinet and the municipalities together must make every effort to make more social housing available. In this way, both Dutch citizens and refugees with a residence status come to a home, without conflict. Mr President, if we want refugees to have safe and decent accommodation in their own region and to be able to build a life, we will now have to invest in it, by increasing the budget for development cooperation. Of every €100 we earn here, less than €0.70 goes to development projects that are designed to tackle the structural causes of war and poverty at the source. This contribution should be increased, but the cabinet is currently doing the opposite by removing aid money from the region and spending it on shelter in the Netherlands under the motto that reception in our own country is also development cooperation. Mr President, in a world that is increasingly overconsumption, climate change and conflicts, we will have to deal with preventing the flow of refugees. It is very short-sighted that this debate is hardly being held. Religious differences between people are only a small part of the cause of the problems. There is hardly any mention in this House of the already demonstrated links between refugee flows and the lack of the most basic needs such as water and food. And the extreme drought partly due to climate change. There is hardly any mention of the role played by the Netherlands in destabilizing regions. The increasing refugee flows should be a wake-up call, instead of a party political fitness between two ruled government partners. We need to look at our trade and walk in vulnerable regions and radically review our foreign and trade policies. We will have to acknowledge that we often behave like lucky seekers in other countries and consume more than the earth can handle. Let us take our role seriously in destabilizing the world and the climate. In this context, too, Mr President, I believe that we must put an end to the bio-industry's predatory work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-2.u278	I'm suspending the meeting for lunch. Of course, the members of the cabinet can also use lunch to prepare for their answers.
