ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u1	Yesterday we had the first term of office and the cabinet. We now proceed with the second term of the Chamber and the Cabinet. In this context, I give the floor to Mr Beertema of the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u2	Mr. Chairman. The association agreements that we debated in the first term were originally a hammerpiece. I was of the opinion that such a far-reaching decision could not pass easily for a number of countries, but above all for the Dutch interest. Looking back on the debate, I think I did the right thing. All parties have had ample opportunity to place their positions sharply. As far as I'm concerned, we owe that to our constituents. I would like to comment on what my colleagues have said here. Of course, it is nice that Dutch entrepreneurs invest in these countries, but the question is how massive these investments are and, above all, how big the benefits will be, not only for individual entrepreneurs, whom I am of course in favour of, but also for the Dutch taxpayer. That is far from clear. It is clear, however, that it costs the State of the Netherlands more than it pays. All these development projects cost a lot of money, which is excluded from the construction and development of our own rule of law, our own police and our own education. This remains the case, even after the Minister's explanation that these costs are recovered from the EU's own budgets. Those Brussels meat jars are also filled by often reluctant hard-working European citizens, and especially Dutch citizens, who are net contributors to the Union. Mr Sjoerdsma of D66 addressed Mr Ten Broeke on the VVD ambition to pursue, above all, a realistic foreign policy. Then the speakers lose themselves in cosmopolitan, ideologically painted vistas of international solidarity and cross-border trade that not only makes the entrepreneur concerned rich, but also makes the simple Dutchman better. So-called shared European values are being added, as far as I am concerned. Geopolitical imbalance would be restored with these treaties. As far as I am concerned, the glass of the convinced europhile is not even half full; it is always overcrowded. However, there is consistently looked away from the ordinary direct interest of the Dutch citizen. Is he also pleased with this international solidarity, with the lifting of the visa requirement and with the arrival of 360,000 visa-free visitors from Moldova alone in 2014, who come to the Schengen area uncontrolled not only for tourism but also for other matters? The VVD wants a realistic policy. This is the reality of the EU and of the association treaties for Dutch citizens in the lower income groups: displacement into the labour market by even more migrant workers than there already are, our welfare state that is even more under pressure than it already is and finally an even greater transfer of our earned prosperity and well-being to the edges of Europe; the edges of which the Brussels elite and its fellow travelers in this house have determined that they are the European family of Henk and Ingrid. Our constituents, those are the victims of this gigantic redistribution operation that the Union is really. We will therefore not agree to the association agreements with Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u3	Mr. Chairman. During the first period, I mainly tried to raise the question and to answer it on behalf of my party, the SP, or association agreements with these three countries are now helping to promote the stability we are looking for in the region directly around the European Union these days, or to fuel the divisions in those countries themselves. We have seen what has led to divisions on European issues in the case of Ukraine. My group is not convinced by the answer and by the hope expressed by the Minister and by colleagues who say: if these countries are included in the momentum of the European peoples, this stability will come of its own accord; even more so, those parts that are now oriented towards Russia will look the other way. That is an expectation that we can express here, but if it does not come true, the opposite, namely that division and possible tension that leads to conflicts, will occur directly at the border of Europe, with all the consequences. Today, in Ukraine, we see the consequences, first and foremost for the Ukrainians themselves, but secondly, for the countries directly adjacent to them, and ultimately for the EU as a whole. That means that we think this process is a precarious undertaking. I also talked about perception. The Minister replied that the perception that an association agreement is an important step towards EU membership is explicitly not the intention. But we do have to take into account the perception that exists in the countries themselves. We noticed that at work visits. If the EU is viewed hopefully by leading politicians, but also by the population, as the destination for which the first step is now being taken in an EU-wide path, we can only weigh that perception. As far as the SP is concerned, the verdict is negative. We do not want to raise this expectation, we must not give rise to that expectation, and we believe that this political step will lead to further divisions in these countries. We therefore consider it unwise, especially under the current guise, to accept these association agreements. We will not support them. In conclusion, I think it is up to the government to indicate what alternatives there are in the case of Armenia. We are talking about processes that are mutually exclusive. When states on the periphery opt for an orientation east and enter into treaties with it, there is no longer any legal space to reach an association agreement with the EU. So we need to find alternatives. In the case of Armenia, we have found that there has been a previous orientation towards Europe, namely the East. At the time, it was stated that there should be a path for Armenia in which there could be a closer relationship with the EU. That road has been announced, but it has not yet been implemented. I think it is our duty in Europe to make it clear to countries that are moving towards the east that closer relations with Europe are possible. A legal form must be found for this. These forms are mutually exclusive. But it is in all our interests to ensure that there is an alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u4	A short, pointy question from Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u5	How can this conclusion be drawn in our association agreement, in which I do not think there is any exclusivity for a possible customs union? It is the Eurasian Union that makes it exclusive, isn't it? How can you blame this treaty, which you do not want to ratify?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u6	I think this issue has been played in Armenia before and is playing now, unless I have completely misunderstood it. If that is the case, an alternative is still needed, but not primarily from our side. That is also what the government has announced: for Armenia, a way will be sought to achieve a more intensive relationship, without any association agreement. The need for an alternative form remains equally valid, at least for the government and for my group, but then the cause of the need is indeed not on the European side. This is without prejudice to the fact that my other concerns about promoting stability or strengthening division remain intact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u7	We will await the Minister's reply and see if this objection has been removed altogether. Then I would like to move on to the following objection that Mr Van Bommel raised, namely that this would be some kind of automatic train to membership. The simple fact that Mr Van Bommel himself now recognizes that membership of a union has been offered from the other side means by definition that you cannot draw that conclusion. This is simply a dressed free trade agreement and not a membership of the European Union. On the other hand, however, it offers membership of the Eurasian Union. Mr Van Bommel must therefore show realism and also remove that objection from his list.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u8	We have to keep seeing the order of things right. My first point was to fuel the division versus the promotion of stability. That is the main objection we have raised to the conclusion of association agreements. The second point concerned the perception that entering into an association agreement is a first important step towards membership of the European Union. I didn't talk about "perception" for nothing. It may well be that it is the intention of Europe, of the Netherlands, to leave it at that; that is the intention of the Minister. However, if the perception among these states and these populations is that this is an important step towards membership, then we do have a problem. Then we will work on expectations that we do not want to meet in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u9	If Mr Van Bommel admits that exclusivity is mainly on the Russian side, then we must note that Mr Van Bommel's argument that this is divisive does not leave much to be desired. This division is due to the exclusivity of the Russian offer. In principle, the European Union is proposing something that can exist perfectly side by side and therefore there should be no division. I would therefore also like to ask Mr Van Bommel whether that is actually an argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u10	It remains an argument, because it concerns a population that is divided. We are talking about a population that wants two different orientations. This sometimes translates literally into areas in these countries. We have mentioned them for Moldova, we know them for Georgia and Ukraine. These are areas with clearly defined boundaries within which one has a different orientation. If we stir up this contradiction, we will strengthen a problem in these countries. I do not understand why it is so easy to get over it, with Ukraine's lesson in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u11	But when Mr Van Bommel talks about 'those areas which would have a different orientation', I note that he does not suppose that Russia's occupation of those areas, whether Abkhazia, South Ossetia or Crimea, has been done on a voluntary basis and that the people there have been waiting for the Russians and that we should, above all, have respect and patience for that. I would find that a very strange conclusion from Mr Van Bommel.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u12	I would find that a very strange conclusion. The point is that there is indeed division, but that, given the political processes that have taken place there, we cannot, of course, talk of a normal expression of the popular desire to achieve a certain form of autonomy or separation or even to declare independence. Certainly not if we take into account the Russian military presence. That is where we find each other and we do not differ in opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u13	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Beertema of the PVV Group. I think it was absolutely a mistake to dismiss this kind of important treaty as a hammer piece at all. In future, we must learn the lesson that this will never happen again. I would therefore like to thank the PVV for devoking these important treaties. If it's a bit lucky, we might be able to find the SP at the end of this meeting by our side. We have just seen that Mr Van Bommel was forced to give up his first two important arguments against ratification, namely that of the exclusivity I ask the Minister to give his own opinion on this and that of membership. The latter is explicitly not included in these treaties. Then we leave it to the people to choose Moscow rather than Brussels. For some parties in this house this is the same. However, it is clear from all the opinion polls that this objection can also be removed with ease. So the stability argument remains. I'll come back to that later. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his first-term response. He said that he would work for a role of the European Commission in the investigation of the banking scandal in Moldova. I would like the Minister to ask the European Commission for an appreciation as soon as the report of the US agency investigating this has been published. Maybe we can get that report together with that appreciation, because I'd like to follow what's going on there. I would prefer the Minister to urge the Commission to develop a plan of action on how to recover the money that may have disappeared from the programmes itself. That could be included in that report. If this requires additional steps from the European Commission, if it requires additional supervision, then Mr Timmermans, the minister's predecessor, has proposed that the central bank should also look into this issue with Romania's. Maybe the Minister can come back to that. If that is not possible here today, at least as soon as that report has been published. Yesterday I heard some disturbing news that the Minister of Defence in Moldova might be called upon to resign by the Communist Party, which is there to keep the coalition going. I just happened to talk to that guy last Saturday. Moldova's armed forces aren't that big of a deal. As far as he could tell, there are barely 6,000 men among the weapons. I think that is a development that we should look at with care. We all know where the loyalty of the Communist Party is. He's in Moscow. I'd like to get an appreciation from the Secretary of State for these reports. Anyone who thinks that this cooperation agreement should not be entered into because it would make the Russians feel like they are getting kicked out of their asses, in my opinion denies the right of all states, including Ukraine, to determine with whom and under what conditions they are acting. As far as I am concerned, anyone who blames the war that is now raging in eastern Ukraine for offering a free trade agreement suffers from far-reaching delusion. There is no doubt that these agreements are in our commercial interest. This became clear to me last Saturday when I spoke to all these Dutch entrepreneurs. They always know exactly where they should be when markets are opening up, no matter how small these markets are. We owe this to our huge export sector, and to this export sector, as I say to Mr Beertema, we have a small economic revival, as well as, of course, this cabinet. It is therefore clear that these agreements are in our commercial interest. There is, however, a second interest: the importance of security, the importance of stability, in which Mr Van Bommel finds his last straw. This form of cooperation with countries at our external borders is essential, as far as I am concerned. It is also about geopolitics, indeed, and not just about principles. It is also about whether we accept the Russian blackmail around this route and whether we stand for the sovereignty and self-determination of different states, in particular Ukraine. In this light and on the basis of that principle, the VVD will firmly agree to the ratification of this cooperation agreement. I was once again dived into the history of the so-called Budapest memorandum of 2008. I would like here to try the myth of Moscow, which was found especially at the PVV and at the SP entrance. If you look at the way NATO has expanded over the past ten to fifteen years, you see the following. Until 1999, the Czech Republic, Poland and Hungary joined. From now on, you will have to go back about ten years for the last enlargement: the Baltic States Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, as well as Bulgaria and Slovakia. Then comes the Budapest memorandum. There is nothing in it about membership of NATO, nothing at all. There are three other things in there. It says, for example, that borders must be respected. This was also signed by the Russian Federation. It says that economic coercive means, let's say: turning on the gas tap, must not be used. And it says that the nuclear weapons are being removed from Ukraine. That last thing happened. You could say, with some good will, that NATO has moved in the east only in a political sense. Ukraine has also been an ally for a long time when it comes to the fight in Afghanistan. But in the military sense, there is a withdrawal. We've only had some air police patrolling over the Baltic States. The Netherlands also participated there, and 30 men in Poland. That is the NATO presence, Mr Van Bommel, in the east of the NATO area. Yanukovych, the man who had to choose the hare path last year, explicitly ruled out NATO membership in 2010. He even rejected a Membership Action Plan, like the accelerated path to NATO membership. In 2014, President Poroshenko, his successor, clearly indicated that he would not even seek NATO membership in the next five years. He'd like to hold a referendum on it. I am sure Mr Van Bommel will be happy with that. In other words, I would like to conclude by saying that the stability argument that is being used by the SP and also by the PVV in the opposite way vis-à-vis the rest of the parties here, namely that Moscow should not be stepped on the toes and that NATO's influence is moving in a dangerous way eastward, will have to be adjusted. That's Moscow's myth. We don't want to believe in that myth. That is why we are pleased to ratify these three cooperation agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u14	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for the answers in the first term. I would also like to thank Mr Beertema, following on from the previous speaker, for devoking this document, so that these association agreements did not pass without debate. That, by the way, is the only point on which I agree with Mr Beertema. Nevertheless, it may also be good to highlight this agreement. It is good to talk about this, also in view of the history of these agreements: the blood flowing in Ukraine, the difficult reforms that have been carried out in the three countries. Those are countries that come from far away and now choose the values that we consider to be very dear. However, it is also good to highlight how long the path is still for these countries when it comes to difficult reforms, for example in the fight against corruption, the building of a properly functioning rule of law and ensuring a stable investment environment. I will not end up with all of yesterday's concerns again, but of course they are still there. The Netherlands' ties with these three countries are becoming ever closer, I have seen in recent years. I have two questions about this. In two of the three countries, the Netherlands has an embassy, not in Moldova. Why isn't there one? I also ask the same question to the Minister I asked yesterday. Is it not time to step up the support we give these countries to build, for example, in strengthening the capacity of the rule of law? It will not be a surprise after the first deadline, during the first period, I do not think it was surprising that the D66 Group will agree to the conclusion of these association agreements. It is in our interest to conclude them and because these agreements are not opposed to something, as Russia says over and over again, but in favour of: before democratisation, before prosperity. We conclude these agreements precisely in order to strengthen the international order, to stimulate economies, but also to show that countries and peoples can decide their own fate and that Russia has no veto over who the European Union is working with or perhaps vice versa. That the PVV and the SP, who are always talking about the Netherlands about sovereignty, want to veto Putin on this point, in any case surprises me very much. Finally, I would like to say that we will have to keep our finger on the wrist. Like yesterday, I call on the Minister to make real progress in the political dialogue on outstanding reforms and mutual concerns, both bilaterally and at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u15	Mr. Chairman. Let me join with the growing support given to the PVV. It is very good that we are very consciously and jointly considering the conclusion of these agreements and also expressing our opinion on them. I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply yesterday. It is clear that today we are talking about far more than the three agreements that we have to ratify. It's about the stories behind it, about the struggle, you might say, of three countries to determine their own fate. I told some stories yesterday about why this is so important and how it can affect people. Fortunately, in this Chamber, I see broad support for the agreements, not as an end point, but as the beginning of a process of reform that began in those countries, and the beginning of closer cooperation between us in Europe and these three countries. I think it is essential, for ourselves, but above all for the three countries, that we continue to monitor, monitor and, wherever possible, support developments there. I have said before in the Chamber that, for example, the Matra support we are giving could be increased even further. At the end of the day, therefore, we can see that, although the PVV has requested this debate, it is against these agreements because it is against Europe. Life can be so simple. And the idea that we might be able to irritate Russia leads the Socialist Party to give Putin its sphere of influence and so that is the hard consequence of the freedom of these three countries to give shape to their own future. It's too bad. I have not given up hope, because I remember talking about Croatia's accession more than a year ago. Colleague Van Bommel finally gave a negative opinion, but that was later corrected in the Upper House, after which colleague Van Bommel also welcomed Croatia. So there's still hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u16	In Brussels language, the terms "Europe" and "European Union" are regarded as synonymous. They're not. Mr Servaes now says that the PVV is against Europe, but the PVV is not against Europe. We are very much in favour of the values of the Nightland. We do all kinds of things to protect and maintain them. We are a huge supporter of Europe, of Europe's shared values and of the preservation of the Eveningland against the hurdles of the outside world, let me put it this way. We have a problem with the European Union. That's what I want to mark here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u17	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u18	I can argue with that much shorter. Mr Servaes did not hear me right. He believes that our objection stems from extending the sphere of influence to Mr Putin. We are concerned about our own European and therefore also Dutch importance of stability in the periphery of Europe. Did Mr Servaes miss that in my first and second term input?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u19	I believe that colleagues and I have tried very well to understand what the argument is below. Several colleagues have, in my view, dissected very well why we cannot fully follow the analysis, let me say carefully, which leads Mr Van Bommel to the conclusion that the conclusion of cooperation with other countries will lead to destabilisation. We do not fully follow that argument. The only conclusion we have left is the fear that Russia will get irritated, that Putin will get annoyed and that it will give the impression that its sphere of influence is being touched.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u20	That conclusion is therefore borne by, in this case, the Labour Party. It is excellent if one makes one's own analyses and draws its own conclusions. I won't go in there. I am, of course, concerned with the analysis I am making on behalf of my party, which is primarily affecting the stability of Europe and therefore of the Netherlands. In our view, this is not in the interests of concluding these association agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u21	We are all in favour of the stability of Europe. That is the result of a process. The question is how to achieve that stability. Others have said that you achieve stability by working well together, by promoting the rule of law, by standing for the value of freedom to determine your own future. Mr Van Bommel has a different reasoning and the only conclusion I draw is that his reasoning is that you are touching Russia's sphere of influence. I haven't heard any other final argument from him. But who knows, his senate group, like last time, might come to a different judgment and it will all be fine. Any resemblance with the position of at least these two parties here today, the PVV and the SP, with those of their European sister parties Front National, Lega Nord and Syriza, who maintain all warm ties with the Kremlin, is undoubtedly by pure coincidence. Yesterday we talked about the fact that this not only affects a cosmopolitan ideal, but that this is something that concerns the Dutch. I found Mr Bertema's interrupting debate interesting. I advise him to retake the Social and Cultural Planning Agency's monitor. This shows that 84% of ordinary Dutch people, people with a high and low level of education, say they are concerned about the developments around us. There's even a few quotes in there. It is clear that there is a lot going on in the world around us. That concerns me, not for myself, but for the general good. What is happening in Russia now is dangerous. They will try to get more countries into the Russian sphere of influence, and that will lead to unrest in Europe. That lives among the people, and we have to respond to that today. It is therefore very important to stand not only for the values of the people there, but also for our own values. Let these values be the same: freedom, the democratic rule of law, self-determination and stability. Mr. Chairman. You will not be surprised that the Labour Party will wholeheartedly agree to the ratification of these association agreements. Let me conclude with the ambassadors present here; I see that Ukraine and Moldova are represented today. They will certainly receive support, but I think we will also support Georgia.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u22	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions in the first term. We also supported the objectives and principles of the Eastern Partnership in the first term, as outlined here today. However, I have also indicated in the first period that the geopolitical situation is substantially different. Mr Servaes has just mentioned concerns. The problem with caring is that you can express it for a very long time, but you will also have to do something about it. You're gonna have to turn those concerns into action. These association agreements are also in a different light than they were a few years ago, because the geopolitical situation has changed considerably. It would therefore be extremely unwise to send out the signal that Europe would bow to the Russians. That does not seem to me to be the signal we should be sending out at the moment. In addition, the association agreements can, of course, also provide a basis for more stable cooperation with the environment of what is now called the EU. I say here, as in the first term, that there is still a great deal to be done in dealing with corruption, particularly in the countries concerned, for example Ukraine. In his first term, the Minister mentioned the large number of laws passed by the Ukrainian Parliament, but the proof of the pudding is also in the eating at this point. I ask the Minister how it is monitored that these laws will also be converted into operational implementing measures that will effectively address this corruption and that the large loans that have now been released by the EU will also be repaid. In short, Ukraine will have to deliver and it is up to Europe to keep its finger on the pulse. I come back to two points that were also discussed in the first term. I have indicated that Europe's naivety in geopolitics should be a thing of the past. That is what I am saying in the direction of the PvdA Group. He has always had good words about her concerns about the situation in Europe, but was not at home when it came to foreign policy and security policy in recent years. I believe that the consequence of concluding agreements of this kind can only be that Europe must take the CSDP extremely seriously, not only in words but above all in deeds. Does the Minister want to bring this into Europe with such conviction? I understand that Mr Servaes has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u23	I understand that, too. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u24	In a concluding speech, a statement is now suddenly being made which has nothing to do with the association agreements. Knowing my colleague, I suspect that this has something to do with defence policy, on which the CDA has cut so much in recent years. That's a little weird, considering what he said yesterday. Then he just said we should look in the mirror and learn a little lesson that we shouldn't annoy the Russians too much. So I have no idea what this is about, where it comes from and why he is suddenly bringing it into this phase of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u25	Mr Servaes probably did not listen very carefully yesterday. I am not surprised by the accusation that this surprises him. What's the problem? Calling the beast by the name. I have spoken a number of times, also yesterday, about the CSDP. The problem is that the CSDP, foreign policy and security policy, Europe's own position and what is currently happening in the world. The fact that our deterrence is no longer in order is one of the reasons why the Russians are taking up the position they are taking now. So there is a connection. It would be good if the PvdA would take that to heart as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u26	A very brief question: Can Mr Knops tell us once again how much the CDA itself has cut defence in recent years and how much the CDA exactly in his last election programme or programme. Didn't you have a budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u27	I'd almost say there's no limit to sourness. We can go back a long way. We can go back to the Armenian genocide, which the PvdA Group does not want to talk about either. I wouldn't want to do that. That is not within the scope of this debate either, but if Mr Servaes really wants to hear it, I would like to list everything that has happened in recent years. I don't think he wants to hear that. Why not? Because all the PvdA's election programmes in recent years have reported billions of defence cuts. It is thanks to other parties that this did not happen in the end, but not to the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u28	This is now a little outside this debate. But you're challenging each other nicely, so we're just gonna go on cheerful. Very briefly, Mr Servaes, and then you will get a short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u29	I would like to make two observations. The first is that Mr Knops does not answer the question in any way. He would explain the cuts in defence in the various CDA programmes...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u30	And the second one?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u31	The second is that I did not hear the comment on yesterday's debate, I think. 'Cause I think it's very sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u32	Mr Knops, a brief and pointy answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u33	That is a pity, because everything I have said is meant to listen to. Mr Servaes did not do that yesterday, so it would be good if he did now. I see him walking back to the interrupting microphone, but I will answer the question of what we have cut back. In the cabinet with the VVD we have net 635 million savings. The amount is still very clear in my mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u34	That's what was in your program.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u35	No, it certainly wasn't in our program. There was 500 million in it. In recent years, I say to Mr Servaes...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u36	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u37	No, no, this isn't a defense debate. Mr Knops replied to the question. After that, we're really gonna listen to the minister, because it's late.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u38	I can imagine this; I've hit a nerve. In it was 500 million, Mr Ten Broeke...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u39	Very well, thank you, Mr Knops.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u40	No, I wasn't quite finished, Mr. Chairman. This debate is running out a little bit in this way. The one-after-last time it was 500 million. On the last two budgets, we have put money into it. This cabinet still has to deliver it, so hopefully it will still happen; there is still hope. The PvdA has added up for more than 2 billion cuts. So the difference is clear. I heard the Minister yesterday on agricultural products and their monitoring say that, if this is the case, checks can be taken immediately, for example by the inspection services. The question is whether I understood that correctly. The Minister may correct that. On the basis of these answers, we are likely to vote in favour of these association agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u41	So much for the second term of office. I note that you had a nice and long debate yesterday in the first term. I also note that no motions have been tabled. I also note that no excessive number of questions have been asked to the Minister. I also note that we should actually start the debate on the state of the European Union in one minute. I therefore hope that we can conclude with a brief and pointy conclusion. With the Minister's cooperation, that's gonna work. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u42	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Chamber for the opportunity to answer the questions today instead of yesterday. There is a great deal of support for these association agreements. In the light of time, I would like to address a number of questions directly. I explained yesterday why the Dutch Government attaches great importance to this agreement. On Mr Van Bommel's questions, I also addressed them yesterday, and I would like to say that I really believe that this is happening from a free choice of countries to establish relations with the European Union. This has been democratically decided in these countries and has been the subject of various consultations. Mr Van Bommel then asked what it meant for a country that did not choose it. That is the right of such a country, such as Armenia. There will then be alternatives to those countries. This might reassure Mr Van Bommel for a possible choice in the vote. These alternatives take the form, for example, of a less far-reaching partnership agreement. For example, we now have these with Kazakhstan, which is also a member of the Eurasian Union. The European Union and Armenia are also talking about this. But this is equally true that it is a choice of the country itself. A number of options are now being discussed, such as a contractual relationship including a trade agreement. There are also noises to talk about visa liberalisation if one wants it and we want it. These are points that Armenia can discuss with us. We are prepared, under certain conditions, to enter into such contractual relations with a country such as Armenia. The question then is whether these two systems are compatible. They are in the sense that cooperation with the Eurasian Economic Union is indeed possible. I'm also in favour of impregnating it. Membership of a customs union, as is the Eurasian Economic Union, is another matter. In doing so, you are actually giving your sovereignty to a higher body, namely the customs union. You cannot reduce your customs tariffs at the same time as a result of the association agreement and increase as a result of the Eurasian customs union. That's just logic. However, this is not an obstacle to speaking with countries such as Armenia. I shall go back to the perception of the prospect of EU membership. I've talked about that before. Countries are aware, on the basis of the EU Treaty, of the right to apply for membership. This is stated in Article 49 of the Lisbon Treaty. It may well be that some countries refer to this and others do not, but this association agreement is an association agreement, no more and no less. That is also very well announced to those countries. That perception is not at all to the greatest extent, because there is quite a lot of clarity about this. At the summit we will see how this works, but the answer to the question put is a clear 'no'. These agreements are not about membership, but really about association. Perhaps I have been able to overcome the concerns of the SP Group on these points. I come to the situation in Moldova. Important questions have been asked about this, and quite rightly so. Mr Ten Broeke spoke about the twinning project of the Netherlands Bank and the Romanian central bank, in cooperation with Moldova, which focuses on preventing malpractice and crises. We will be launching this soon. Mr Ten Broeke rightly pointed out that, given the possible extent of the fraud, it is extremely important that the Moldovan authorities are very aware of the seriousness of the situation. That is also the case. Saving the three banks involved costs the Moldovan state capital. It is therefore in their interests as well as ours that this be resolved quickly. They too want to see what has happened and how this was possible. They want to prevent this from happening again. In that sense, it was a very hard lesson. Mr Ten Broeke has just been to Moldova and has probably seen the shrapnel lying on the ground there. An independent investigation is currently taking place on behalf of the Moldovan authorities. This is performed by Kroll from the United States. This is an internationally renowned company specialising in the unravelling of corruption and fraud cases. That report is expected shortly. As far as the European Union is concerned, the next step would be to recover the eclipses. I think that's important, too. In the light of the questions raised by the VVD Group, I will urge the Commission to do so and I will look into the possibilities for reporting on them. In addition, the Moldovan D.A. has launched a criminal investigation. Structural reform of the financial sector is also being considered. The IMF can play a significant role in this. I support the critical notes of the VVD Group on budget support and the way in which the cabinet deals with European budget support. The cabinet will deal very critically with the various tranches for Moldova. Once again, there is no tranche at the moment, but that does not mean that we will be looking very critically at this. I can't confirm that the Moldovan Secretary of Defense has been fired. At 3.30 p.m., we were not aware of that. In the cabinet Juice on Neighbourhood, which is in the making, I will take on board the latest state of affairs, should there be any development that I do not know at the moment. The CDA Group has asked about the Ukrainian Government's reform spirit. The IMF is now saying that it is the most reform-minded government team in a long time. I also get that impression from the Ukrainian authorities, but I say immediately that this must be proved in practice. This is always the case with these matters, as a number of Members of Parliament have said. Therefore, the difficult balance between money and reform is essential. The monitoring is very precise. Less than two weeks ago, we had a Council with Moldova. There are also regular Councils with the countries with which we have association agreements, including Ukraine. There, the Commission services and others are looking at these difficult and difficult reforms in detail. We talked about this yesterday. The EU also presents progress reports once a year for all neighbourhood countries. They were released recently, namely on 25 March last. We will send the Chamber the Juicer's Juicer's Juicer's Juicer's Juicer's Juicer's Juicer's. Questions have been asked about Moldova. I shall first address the issue of European support and bilateral support. The association agreement offers the opportunity to support countries in a good way in different areas, even though the finances themselves are not in the agreement. As is well known, Moldova's resources come from the European Neighbourhood Instrument. Its allocation for 2014 to 2020 was approximately 678 million. The programming for 2014 amounts to 540 million for Georgia. That's all incentive based. So a country doesn't just get that. We ourselves, of course, only support this to a very small extent. I wouldn't want to extend that right now either. We now have a European responsibility for this. Then it is not appropriate to do all kinds of major projects separately at national level. However, we are also doing a number of projects in Moldova through the bilateral Matra funds on a number of crucial niches, which we consider to be important in the Netherlands and in the EU. These are projects in the field of the rule of law and finance. I would mention a number of PSDI, PSI and PUM projects. The CNV is also internationally active in Moldova. We are also engaged in trade missions to Moldova. In short, there are a large number of instruments that we are using very actively. About the embassy in Moldova, I can report that the work is done with great care and strength from the embassy in Bucharest. That's fine in itself. I have no indication that this is not working in a very good way. We live in a time when we can't open embassies everywhere. Of course, I will look carefully at the extent to which this work can be done in a sufficient way from the Bucharest Embassy. Finally, I can make a commitment on agricultural products. As soon as something is done, the inspections will, of course, respond actively. If necessary, they'll be ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-12.u43	I thank the Minister for his conciseness. We will be voting on the three agreements next Tuesday.
