ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u1	I have received written answers from questions asked in the first period. These answers will be included in an annex to the Acts of this sitting. (The attachment is recorded at the end of this edition.)
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u2	This is the first time that the Secretary of State has replied. I would like to propose the following to Members. The Secretary of State is going to start with an introduction and I would like to give him the opportunity to keep that introduction undisturbed. When that introduction is over, of course, you will have the room to ask the questions. After that, the Secretary of State will answer in four blocks. I always have hesitation in imposing interruptive restrictions, but yesterday there was unlikely to be much and very long interruptions. At first, I wanted to propose six interruptions per spokesperson that you should do it with. However, given the number of blocks, this is difficult. So I'm gonna start by seeing if you can interrupt at the end of the blocks and ask a few questions. I give you all the freedom. Mr Geurts, you want to propose something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u3	That's what happened to me last year. Then the Secretary of State's introduction took about 45 minutes. Well, that's really not gonna work; I also don't agree that we can't interfere in the blocks until the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u4	I didn't say that either. I said we're gonna see if we can keep it in the blocks a little bit limited at the end. I didn't say you didn't...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u5	I've interpreted it in such a way that we're just at the end...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u6	Then it's a good thing we clarified it here. The budget treatment takes you all day, so it's also your own party. The Secretary of State has indicated that his introduction takes about ten minutes. I don't think that's unreasonable given the fact that he spent a few hours here yesterday listening to what you had to say. So I'm giving him the opportunity to tell you ten minutes. At the end, you may ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mr President, could you just mention the blocks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u8	Yes. It's four blocks. Honestly, more natural, better and... The Secretary of State is also going to say something about it in his introduction. I call the Secretary of State for his first budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mr President, it will become clear what these blocks mean. I promise you. It is a great pleasure for me to be back in the Chamber and also to speak and not just to listen like yesterday. It is over 12.5 years after I, as a Member of Parliament, made my maiden speech in this Chamber. Over the last 12.5 years, I have been able to perform the most beautiful function in our democracy, namely that of the representative of the people. However, I do not have to tell you all that. Today exactly a month ago, that ended. Now I'm back in the Chamber, but now for the first time as a guest. It'll take some getting used to. It also takes some getting used to not asking the questions but having to listen to them and not having to respond to them immediately but having to answer them now. In this Parliament, policy is judged against the questions, wishes and concerns of society. Divergent sounds come together here and sometimes lead to sharply polarized debates. Yesterday some Members spoke about the atmosphere between the spokesmen of this committee. Those words kept a bit between cheerful harbingers about what awaits me and heartfelt warnings. I heard them right. Sharp debate and polarisation are also part of this every now and then. Sometimes unfortunately, but sometimes it's necessary. However, we must never forget that we also have the responsibility to bring together all these noises from society. The more fundamental the issue is, the more important it is. Today we are discussing fundamental issues: the food on our plate and the green around us. These are subjects that every Dutchman has to deal with every day. It is a privilege, both for the Chamber and for me, to be able to deal with it every day. We're working on that, too. Newspapers write attachments full of food. Although book sales are falling, books about food like hot sandwiches go over the counter. After the appearance of The food sandpiper, the sale of oatmeal increased by more than 40%. Thanks to Rens Kroes we no longer call kale "Dutch food," but "superfood." There are not only new trends; there are also new concerns. Beetle juice was initially seen as a natural doping for cyclists: they finally cycled over the mountains on natural ingredients. However, when everyone suddenly went to the purple magic potion, experts rushed to warn of an overdose of nitrate. A few weeks ago a new warning followed: don't eat smoke sausage with that incredibly trendy kale, because that's as bad as smoking a cigarette. What are we gonna do with that? What is good and what isn't good? This confuses us. There's really only one thing we know for sure, which we don't eat enough of. This brings us back to the raw reality, because despite all the positive attention, the consumption of fruit and vegetables has been decreasing for years. Despite the many negative publicity, the kilo-batter continues to be popular; I will of course go into this in detail later. Apparently, we still pick a lot with our wallet after all. Without being aware of that, the price is paid by the hard-working farmer. We are not aware of this, because the food chain is long and opaque and we still have little feeling about it. I think, for example, that not many people know that an average frozen pizza from the supermarket contains ingredients that come from three different countries and from ten different suppliers and have passed through a producer and a distribution centre before we remove the pizza from the shelves. The uncertainty about our food and the ignorance about where it comes from give every reason to want to reduce the distance from the ground to our mouth again and to restore the contact between our food and how it was made. We must do this against the backdrop of major global issues. We don't just want to eat fairer and healthier. The growing world population demands more and the globe demands less. Can we get all these questions together? We'll have to. In three decades, we'll have to feed 9 billion people, maybe 10 billion people. That is about 2 billion more people than it is today, while one in ten people in the world is already starving, while the pressure on nature and the climate is already enormous and the soil on one side of the world is already being exhausted and on the other side of the world is being overloaded with manure. If we can bring these questions together in the Netherlands, we can do so in the world. If we can do that somewhere, it's right here. There's a reason we're known as a world player. Nowhere is produced as much in such a small area as here. For years now, forced by borders, food solutions for the future have been devised, implemented and exported with knowledge, technology and innovations resulting from cooperation between farmers and between the government, knowledge institutions and the whole food chain. The trend, concerns and challenges I mentioned bring me to the agenda that I want to implement over the next one and a half to two years, building on the work of my predecessor Sharon Dijksma. This agenda consists of four components: fairer food, more natural food, better food and a greener Netherlands. Fairer food means knowing what we eat, knowing where it comes from, more production in the region, fewer links in the chain, a fairer price for the farmer, less dependent on large, powerful players in the food industry. I'm not the only one who wants that. Market parties themselves are already setting the trend to reduce the distance between farmers and consumers. In more and more supermarkets you see a shelf with local products. Cheese is increasingly coming directly from a farm in the cheese shop. New shops and markets are emerging all over the country, which boast real food, regional food or organic food. The second point is that agriculture only has a future if it takes account of nature and the other way around. It should not only be fairer; it should also be more natural. This applies to the way we protect our crop, with less chemicals, the way we catch the fish, with less by-catch, the way we handle manure, with less phosphate, the way we heat our greenhouses, with less use of fossil energy, and the way we deal with our animals, with more room for natural behaviour and less antibiotics. More natural food is the only way. Although Dutch agriculture is good, with high production at low costs, it is very doubtful whether our strength lies there for the future. There are more and more countries in the world that are better, where the land is less scarce, where the cost of labour is less high and where the net is less close to the protection of nature. We must use the knowledge and expertise that distinguishes us in quantity, so that we distinguish ourselves more in quality, in better food, both in terms of the product and in terms of production. That's how we've been on the road for the last few years. The Netherlands is a frontrunner. I saw it in South Africa on my first trip. It was a trade mission that I was allowed to make in this position. In fact, it was not so much about the export of Dutch food, apart from the apples and pears in the season in which South Africa itself cannot grow them. There was much more interest in our knowledge. It is about knowledge about seeds, in which the Netherlands is world leader. It's about knowledge about the smart cultivation of the country. In South Africa we really have to reinvent agriculture, so to speak, after all the land reforms. One then uses Dutch knowledge to see how to do this as smartly as possible, with as little water as possible and with as little damage to the environment as possible. It's about knowledge about irrigation, for example watering on satellite data, so you don't waste water. It's about knowledge about agro-logistics, in which we are of course! Being incredibly good. It is even about our knowledge of cooperation between farmers. We even export the famous Dutch cooperative model. We're frontrunners. Look at our pulse fishing, our sustainable stables, our milking robots. But also consider what is possible if we build on this, if we further integrate agriculture and ICT. Think of self-communicating and self-correcting machines, installations and greenhouses. Also think of robots on the fields, drones above land and animal manure that we convert into fertilizer, biogas and energy. Think of modern crop protection. Think of horticulture in a closed system. Also think of Agri meets Design.I personally think that is a beautiful project in which designers together with farmers are thinking about redesigning the business model and redesigning the food chain. We are doing all that for our future food production here, but also for the export, of which we need to talk, in the future. We have to go from frontrunner in quantity to frontrunner in quality, technology and innovation. There are great opportunities for the Netherlands, provided we have ambition. Not only the food needs to be more natural, but also our land, the green around us, where we are in the middle or where we can sometimes look from above. There are only a few places in the Netherlands where you can take a look at it from above. Thanks to the VPRO this can also be done on TV, but last year I was on the Wageningen Mountain myself. You have a beautiful view there. If you look down, you can see at a glance what makes the Netherlands so special. You have the Gelderland forests around you and underneath you stretch out the small-scale agricultural landscape, those green meadows with still the same wide rivers through that same infinite lowland of Hendrik Marsman from almost 100 years ago. If you descend that mountain and look a little closer, you can see, however, that this idylle is under pressure, that it is not as beautiful as it was 100 years ago, that nature is deteriorating and that, if we are not careful, we only know the grutto in 2016 as "the king of the meadow" from the new Syb van der Ploeg song. That is why we work together with the farmers on agricultural nature management, we work together with the provinces to protect our unique natural areas and we work together with society to create a nature that matters, that we can experience and use and that we want to protect as a result. The Chamber already hears it: I keep saying "together." I do not believe that all salvation comes from above, from a government that puts the world to its hand. Real change comes from below, from society. I believe that the only way to progress is through cooperation, through cooperation with consumers, farmers, knowledge institutions, nature organisations and businesses that want to move forward. I want to hang out with them. And with the room. The road is "together', the direction is "fairer, more natural and better'. Along those lines I would also like to set up my answer. I'll do that in four blocks. You mentioned it, Mr. Chairman. In the 'fairer' block we are going to talk about animal welfare, intensive livestock farming, ritual slaughter, manure problems, pasture slaughter and landing obligation. In the 'natural' block, Mr Graus is not here now, but I hope that he will be there soon, because he had questions about competition, the kilo-bullers, the NVWA and the fees, the transparency in the chain, the labels, the regionalisation and the penalty plan of the SGP. The block "better" is about green education, export opportunities, food patents, biotechnology, regulatory pressure and the CAP. "Greener" is about nature vision, the Nature Network Netherlands, agricultural nature management, the meadow birds, the fitness check, the nature volunteers and the Marker Wadden, about which questions have been asked. That is the format of the answer I intend to give. I hope it will help the Chamber to know when it is ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mr Geurts... Oh, I thought the layout is ready and Mr Geurts is going to ask a question. But it's not, so I'm giving the floor...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u11	That would be about entrapment, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u12	Almost, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u13	...but I didn't quite know if the Secretary of State had finished. Compliments for this introduction, especially since the Secretary of State referred to the beautiful province where I come from, the Gelderland forests. I'd like a floor hit in here. What will the Secretary of State mean for entrepreneurs who also focus on exports?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u14	That, I believe, was to a large extent the core of my speech. The Dutch export position is incredibly strong, but I think you should always look ahead, not for one or two years, but for the future. Where do you expect the biggest opportunities lie for the Netherlands? In my introduction I said that I expect the greatest opportunities to lie in discernment, in quality and in technology and knowledge. I think that's what we need to talk about in our future exports. That is a transition that I would like to make together with the entrepreneurs throughout the chain, and certainly also with the farmers in the Netherlands. Many farmers are already fully engaged in this transition. They are frontrunners and thus have acquired a stronger position for themselves. I want to support farmers who want to make the transition. I would also like to work together to bring about the changes I have described.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u15	I would have missed that part. With me was more stuck the focus on regionalisation, food production in the area and sales in the area. I am pleased with these words. I am pleased that this Secretary of State will continue to keep an eye on entrepreneurs who look a little further than the region, and that there will be room for this in the developments in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u16	Sure, that's what I've been telling you. However, Mr Geurts must also see regionalisation in an international perspective. That's the interesting thing. If something has to happen in the world, it's that the world gets better at producing its own food. I wish everyone were as good as we are. Then we would not have to worry so much about food production for 9 to 10 billion world citizens. That food production will have to take place precisely where the world's population is growing most. There are major improvements to be made. And that's where people need knowledge about how to do it. How do you produce at a high level of productivity without damaging nature and climate, but creating opportunities for small farmers? That kind of question will come mainly from Africa, where the population will grow the hardest. There are also opportunities for the Netherlands. I already described what I saw in South Africa, but it can also be done in other places. Indeed, the knowledge, technology and experience we have can help to increase food production there. I really think it should take place for the most part there, also from the point of view of climate and the local economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u17	But the knowledge and experience we have here in the Netherlands to be highly productive are mainly based on a lot of fertilizer and agricultural poison?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u18	Mrs Thieme is right that we have achieved productivity on the basis of past innovations. If you look at that now, you have to say of some of that innovation: is that the way we should proceed? So we don't. We're trying to see if we can perform crop protection in a more natural way. And fertilizer doesn't always have to be negative, on the contrary. Natural manure often washes out more to the environment than fertilizer. So the use of fertilizer will also be necessary in other places in the world to get food production to the level needed to feed enough people. As I said earlier, one in ten people are starving right now. So there is reason to worry. I think we can handle it, but it does mean we have to do a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u19	That is why we need to be energy-efficient with fertilizers. Then it is shocking to know that most fertilizer is used for animal products. Plant food is first grown, with a lot of fertilizer going on. Then that goes to the animal and we only have a fraction of it. So we will also have to discuss this. How can we feed as efficiently as possible as many people as possible? My question is about the fact that we're frontrunners, as the Secretary of State said. However, we are not among the top five countries with the highest percentage of organic agricultural land. They include countries such as Estonia and Austria. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that we should strive for the highest possible percentage of organic agricultural land, because the UN also says that ecological agriculture is the future if we get more and more people in the world?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u20	I believe that we must strive for both productivity and balance with nature and climate. It does not necessarily have to be organic, but I stress that the balance with nature is necessary for a reason. We will have to do this here, because the Netherlands is a densely populated country with little nature, which is also very under pressure from all kinds of economic and human activities. That is why I say that if we succeed in getting better at this, it will give us knowledge that is going to be needed elsewhere in the world to keep an eye on that balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u21	I listened with interest to the introduction. I look forward to the rest of the answer to the points raised yesterday. Mr Geurts just asked a question about the export position. I appreciate the cubes and the special layout, but what I miss is attention to the entrepreneurs who work hard 7 days a week, 24 hours a day and 365 days a year to earn their living. They are subject to restrictions in this country. Of course, that comes back in the cubes. It is a sector which is one of the most important economic pillars of this country and which maintains the Netherlands, for example. Can the Secretary of State reflect on that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u22	I am sorry that Mrs Lodders missed it, because this subject was indeed in my introduction, although she would have liked to hear a little more. When I said that I want to restore the contact between our food and the way it's made, and reduce the distance from ground to mouth, I also said that we don't realize how our food is made and by whom it's made. These are mostly peasant families who have to work very hard and often barely get paid. Some groups in this Chamber want to change that very quickly. I understand that ambition very well, but you must always keep an eye on who these changes are. These are the peasant families which, as Mrs Lodder rightly points out, work very hard seven days a week and do little about it. You're gonna have to make those changes with them. If you want those changes to be sustainable and sustainable, you're really gonna have to do it together. Then you will have to have an eye for the sometimes very vulnerable position in which farmers sit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u23	Of course, in the introduction I heard something about our food and its fame. I felt that the Secretary of State was very much concerned with the local and regional aspects of the food we see on the shelves. However, most of the production in our country is intended for export. I continue to wrestle with the focus on regulation and regulatory pressure. I think we can become even more sustainable. We think this is a very good ambition; we are in favour of it. However, let us not forget that the Netherlands already has the most sustainable agriculture in the world. I'd like to see that accent a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u24	I told you, the Netherlands is the frontrunner in several areas. That does not alter the fact that we still have to succeed for the future in the Netherlands. We will have to do this together. You need to look not only at the here and now and the short term, but also at the long-term perspective. The reality is that Dutch exports, which must have high quantity and low cost, must take account of large and increasing competition at world level. Therefore, Dutch exports will be more difficult. If we want to move forward with the sector, we will have to help the sector to be more distinctive in quality and sustainability, and to gain a stronger position in the world market. That's my ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u25	Does the Secretary of State agree with me that, whether you produce much or little, biologically or not, that should be done environmentally neutrally? It will have to be a circular production if you want to allow for the future, even for our young people, a clean nature and clean food.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u26	I like the ambition. Where it is possible, we must certainly try to achieve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u27	The commitment will be to make it ecologically happen for the coming period, I repeat: whatever form of production it is, biologically or otherwise, much or little..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u28	No effect on nature seems to me to be permanently impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u29	Neutral, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u30	We are trying to let agriculture and nature conservation go together. I think that should be the ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u31	Chairman? Very briefly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u32	No. We'll do it in two. Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u33	I realize I've changed the layout of the cubes a little bit. In the first block I also do the kilo shooters, when I said I would do it in the second block. The first block is about more honest food. I have already indicated that I have deliberately classified it on the basis of a number of ambitions, which also translate into the way in which the food chain is handled in agriculture. I have already said what it means to me: know what we eat, know where it comes from, more production in the region, fewer links in the chain and, above all, a fairer price for the farmer, who is less dependent on large, powerful players in the food industry. The PvdA group asked if I am ready for a change in the food system, Mrs Dik-Faber asked for regionalisation of food production and Mrs Dikkers referred to changes in the air. In my introduction, I have already indicated that I am experiencing these changes. I realize that we need motivation and energy from consumers and entrepreneurs to make changes. The cabinet prepared the food agenda with the WRR report as its starting point. We are discussing this with society. For me, it is an important starting point for the policy that I intend to pursue over the next one and a half to two years, no matter how long I have been given. An important part of that agenda is to stimulate innovation and give space to initiatives that help realise the desired transitions. It is true that the emphasis is on quality rather than quantity; it is a question of greater transparency, as I said earlier, and thus greater confidence in the food chains, good policy incentives and the promotion of sustainable food production and consumption. I will be the first to come to the fair price in the chain. An honest, natural and qualitative product is also worth something. In order to continue to produce economically sustainable products, a product needs to be sufficiently distinguished in the eyes of consumers and to offer added value. It is also necessary that the successive links, the farmer, the processor, the retail, catering, the catering industry, work together and that they are aware of the effect of choices on other places in the chain. Cooperation leads to a guaranteed sustainable product. There are great initiatives from the business community: the Better Life label that has been developed together with the Animal Protection, the sustainable pork such as the Livar pig and developments, Mr Graus already gave this to the "made in Holland" stamp, and I will come back to that later. These are initiatives that show that the sector is also engaged in the transition towards sustainability, more quality and more animal welfare. Initially, sustainability concepts are often developed for the domestic market, but you can see that they also offer opportunities for the international market, export. Mr Geurts asked for this. In Germany, for example, the demand for organic meat is increasing. It is not surprising to expect such developments to occur in other markets as well. Although sometimes it's hard to make the transition when you're ahead, it certainly offers opportunities for the future if you do it right. I think it is important to distinguish between the role of government and the role of business. Developing this kind of new income models is primarily a business responsibility. That doesn't change the fact that I'd like to support it. Both Mr Geurts and Mr Graus have asked for my commitment to this. Let me give you a few examples. We facilitate the pilot Code of Conduct fair commercial practices and agrofood sector. This pilot should ensure that companies with a good negotiating position refrain from imposing unreasonable conditions and unilaterally changing contract terms of contracts already concluded. The evaluation will be sent to the Chamber at the turn of the year. The Authority Consumer & Market has carried out an investigation into price formation in the food chain. The Food Price Monitor of LEI Wageningen UR monitors on a monthly basis how food prices develop in different links of the chain. Let me give you another example. The European common agricultural policy strengthens the position of the primary producer by allowing cooperation within producer and inter-branch organisations in agriculture. In this context, I support, for example, the initiative of the Producers Organisation for the Farm of Pigs to develop measures in the Vitale Pig Management Group aimed at strengthening the market and chain position of pig farmers. Mrs Dik-Faber asked if I see room for that, so the answer is yes. It is also important that there is more room for sustainability initiatives such as the Kip of Tomorrow; Mrs Koşer Kaya asked for them. The Minister for Economic Affairs has indicated that he is coming up with an appropriate policy rule on competition and sustainability, which is expected to be published for consultation at the end of this year. It also examines, in consultation with the European Commission, whether the interpretation of the competition rules in the field of sustainability can provide more scope. But... I would like to keep my final remark, because it is a bridge to the next subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u34	Of course, it is also up to the market to see how the price can develop, but we are dealing with externalities that society is paying for, such as environmental pollution and animal welfare problems. They are currently not included in the price. Is it not important for the Secretary of State to have an idea of how big these externalities are and he knows what the real price of pork, for example, is? According to the Vrije Universiteit in Amsterdam, it is 40% too low. That research is, I believe, from 2010, five years ago. I ask the Secretary of State to understand the externalities that are currently being passed on, often through taxes or expenses that the government has to do to revitalize nature and improve water quality. Meat, dairy and egg often have a large footprint with many externalities. What exactly is that all about? Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u35	The question is whether such an investigation can be carried out and whether it makes sense. All economic activity has external effects, for example on climate and nature. We have a joint responsibility for this. We know that this is the case and we do not fully transfer that account to the producers and other companies that engage in activities that produce these effects. Through taxes we collect money that we can use, for example, to protect nature and improve the climate. There are therefore external costs involved, but through the tax system we collect money, which we redistribute. That's what the companies pay for. This is precisely what we are doing in order to cope with the negative effects of business activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u36	The Planning Office for the Environment recommends that the Secretary of State should do so very probably, because I know him as a file eater to look closely at the fact that not only are a lot of externalities not included in the price, but that we are also giving subsidies on products that are very environmentally polluting. As a government, I think we need to know where we are currently subsidising improper products, which is costing us a great deal of money. Think, for example, of the fact that meat is at a reduced VAT rate, while the externalities of meat are huge. At the very least, it makes sense to move away from a preferential position for meat in the VAT tariff system and then look at how the account can be placed where it should be placed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u37	Mrs Thieme says two things I would like to address. She says meat is covered by the reduced VAT rate, but meat is simply included in the VAT rate for food. So there is no question of subsidy, as Mrs Thieme says, but simply of the regular rate of tax on food. In addition, Mrs Thieme wonders whether we are using subsidies which are in fact counterproductive to what we are aiming for. She can expect me to take a critical look at that. Mrs Dikkers has also asked a number of questions about the instruments contained in the budget. All the instruments we use must contribute to the ambitions we have in terms of sustainability, animal friendliness and climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u38	In the debate on fair prices in the food chain, the primary sector seems to be the weakest link in price formation in that chain. If there is pressure in the chain somewhere, it is pushed further down and eventually the primary producer pays the bill. I wonder if the Secretary of State agrees with me. Does the Secretary of State intend to take part of this, but not exactly from his response, in order to focus in particular on this aspect of contract formation within the primary sector? This applies in particular to contracts between pig farmers and the meat processing industry, but it applies in the primary sector in general. Is the Secretary of State prepared, for example, to simply prohibit contract forms under which the price is subsequently determined for a product which has already been delivered in the meantime.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Such forms of contract contribute significantly to automatically pushing down any market pressure. Is the Secretary of State also prepared to do so in such a way that the effect is that society needs to add a little less to the primary sector? If there is pressure in the chain at the moment, we as a society must compensate it through subsidies or income support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u39	I recognize the problem referred to by Mr Grashoff. The primary producers, the farmers, are the most vulnerable link in the chain, and I prefer to speak of 'the most vulnerable link' rather than 'the weakest link', because the price pressure usually pushes towards the end of the chain. As a result, it is often impossible to implement developments that farmers themselves want very badly, but for which they do not see space. We certainly see this in pig farming, which is under great pressure. I would like to look together with the whole food chain at how we could improve this, because it is not in the interests of the whole food chain. Companies down the chain have a responsibility to think about what the result of their actions is on the other side of the chain. I'll get right back to that in the discussion about the kilo-bulls.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u40	That's fine. I note, however, that the Secretary of State emphasizes to a large extent that he wants to do it together with the partners in the food chain. I would point out that the interests are great and do not always point in the same direction. Parties in the chain do not always want to take responsibility, but sometimes they also go into a huge priest's dilemma. That is why it is so important for public authorities to tighten up the rules in this area, so that parties who actually want, but do not dare, can go along with the Secretary of State. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that he himself has the lead in creating conditions for fair pricing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u41	Sustainable change comes from below. We have to work on this together. I always keep open the possibility to intervene if it does not produce sufficient results. I think that we will be discussing this subject more often, because the instrument provided by Mr Grashoff may well be worth looking at. However, it is better if all the parties in the chain feel the responsibility they have.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u42	I come forward because in this block it is also about the price that farmers and gardeners get for the products they deliver. I made a point of TTIP in my contribution. In his reply, the Secretary of State refers to the environment and animal welfare, but not at all about the price for entrepreneurs. We have seen several reports showing that the income model for farmers is still under pressure at the time when we are going to liberalise and create larger trade flows leading to economies of scale leading to costs. I am very curious how the Secretary of State looks at food in relation to TTIP after everything he says now and his fine words about the importance of a strong position of farmers in the chain.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u43	In Mrs Dik's question is a little bit the suggestion that blocking trade would be helpful. I don't believe in that. Eventually, we benefit very much from trade, but sometimes it also has risks when you open your market to competing products that are produced in a way that does not meet the standards we know. That is why the commitment in the TTIP negotiations is also to keep the standards that we have in Europe, as Mrs Dik also knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u44	I have also read this answer in the written reply. This is indeed about environmental and animal welfare standards. They are also important, as does the Christian Union. I would point out that further liberalisation will increase the scale, leading to more production and lower prices for farmers. We're talking in this block about the farmers who can barely keep their heads above water. My point, which is also supported by reports, is that TTIP is putting further pressure on the income model for farmers. If the Secretary of State is worried about that, isn't it wise to get food out of TTIP?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u45	I do not immediately share that conclusion, that increasing international trade is by definition a threat to farmers. That may also offer opportunities, but if Mrs Dik asks if I share the concerns about this, I can confirm that. I share those concerns. It is also the commitment of the European Union as a whole to the negotiation of TTIP to ensure that this offers opportunities and that we try to minimise threats. I was talking about the fair price. I conclude by saying that as consumers we are often inclined to choose with our hearts, but that in reality, of course, we also often choose with our wallets. That brings me to Mrs Dikkers' call for a ban on kilo shots. We're all being lured to the supermarket with offers. Let's face it, that's kind of nice for the wallet. But meat isn't a pack of cookies. Meat isn't a bag of chips. Meat isn't a bottle of Coke. Meat comes from an animal and you don't stunt with it. I find it outrageous and irresponsible that it should happen. Because if you do, then you knowingly take responsibility for a chain in which the farmer pays the price and the animal is screwed. I understand that some of you are saying that this should be banned. But the question you have to ask is whether this really works and whether the proposal made by Mrs Dikkers, that meat should not be sold below a certain price, also has the effect that it is intended to have. There is no guarantee in the food chain that the extra money paid by the consumer will actually reach the farmer and beasts, and that it will lead to better animal welfare. Farmers are the most vulnerable link in the chain. Experience in other chains also shows that if there is money left in the chain, that usually doesn't flow to that point. I told you, if you want real change, make sure it comes from below, that it goes through. So you have to work with the supermarkets, with the food chain and with the farmers to boost animal welfare and ensure that farmers get a better price. That cooperation is already there, and we can see results of that. There is clearly a change of heart. Some supermarkets are already leading the way from the present meat to meat from animals that have had a better life. Then it is not just idealistic supermarkets, as I call them, but also ordinary chains, where we all do our shopping every day. So I would also like to continue with this cooperation. I'll pull that hard. I would add that I do want visible results. I also say that if we want to change livestock farming in the Netherlands, dealing with kilobulbs is part of that but not the whole story. I will come back later to talk about the future of pig farming in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u46	The Secretary of State says nice words. I also said yesterday in my speech that the sun is not going to shine harder than the Brabant Peel if we ban the kilo-blaster. I hear the Secretary of State say he wants tangible results. I like that. So did the minister's predecessor and she came home from a cold carnival. I am very curious to see what the Secretary of State will do if the tangible results are not forthcoming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u47	I never like pessimism when it comes to asking questions, because I am naturally optimistic. I also see developments in the chain moving in the right direction. I share the impatience of this with Mrs Dikker, but I can see that steps are being taken. I am also optimistic that the line of cooperation and pressure from consumers and civil society organisations is actually helping and contributing. Mrs Dikkers asks: but what if it all turns out to be nothing? Of course, you can always look at instruments that you can use as a government. However, I always see this as a burden resort, because I believe more in changes internalised by parties in the chain, so that parties also understand that they have a social responsibility. If you're a marketing manager at a supermarket chain, you need to realize the effect of the offers you make, whether it's stunting with meat or something else. Let me give you another example. A while ago there was a nice broadcast by the Audit Service of Value, which I would recommend to everyone, about the fact that bananas are sold in Dutch supermarkets for €1 and what their effect is. The price is also paid on the other side of the chain, namely by workers on banana plantations and by the environment in the vicinity of banana plantations. As a supermarket, you have a social responsibility to realize that your pressure on the price somewhere else has an effect for which you are also responsible. I think you should think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u48	I also think you should think about that. There's GLOBALG.A.P. For. There are all kinds of companies that say you have to get one link back in the chain to see if it's right. The Secretary of State is actually in favour of the sector or the selling parties calling it a random supermarket, which is responsible for everything, all the way back to the banana plantations. Besides, he's got us by his side. We think it would be fantastic to do so, but of course we do not have any instruments in our hands to force the supermarkets to do so. So we can say powerfully and with beautiful words that it is very bad for the pickers and that we put a label of the Rainforest Alliance on it, but that's not what we did. I'm glad we have an optimistic Secretary of State. That's how I know him. However, he lacks the instruments to actually enforce it. That's so sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u49	Mrs Dikkers' questions also imply that as a government you can make this kind of change on your own. This is evident from the proposal it is making, the instrument it is proposing. She says you should actually ban meat from being sold below cost. There are countries that are trying to do this and are facing incredible enforcement problems. You can see that it does not directly have the effect that Mrs Dikkers is aiming at. It shows how difficult it is to regulate as a government and thus achieve the effect you want. There's always roads around that. That is why my point is that if you do it together, if you ensure that parties in the chain also internalise their responsibility and take the responsibility they have, it will ultimately result in more results. Sometimes things don't go as fast as you'd like. Progress goes, if you do it together, sometimes with steps, when you'd rather jump. But you're gonna get on with those steps eventually.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u50	The Secretary of State doesn't want kilos of bullets. D66 doesn't want kilos of bullets either. As a solution, the Secretary of State has only the creation of social awareness at supermarkets. Unlike my colleague from the PvdA, I do not want a ban. I do want citizens' awareness to be increased, so that they make conscious choices. That means achieving transparency throughout the chain, from farmer to supermarket. Everyone needs to know who gets what prize, because it makes it a lot fairer. There is also a need to do something about the labels. It's full of labels! If we were to bring them all back to one quality mark, on which people can see at a glance what they are buying, we would have two great tools to achieve this, apart from that social awareness.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u51	Increasing consumer awareness is good and useful. Of course, many civil society organisations are also working on this. I would also like to look at how we can support this, because it is good that consumers know how their food is produced, where it comes from and what effects it has on animals' lives. I told you before. We know one thing: Mr Grashoff pointed out that when supermarkets hit the price of meat, that pressure is pushed all the way to the farmer. And that farmer doesn't have much choice, because that farmer is already taking a lot of effort to keep his head above water. It is therefore not surprising that it ultimately leads to many animals in a stable, many animals on transport and reducing the costs for things that might make life for animals more pleasant. That's why I keep saying, if you want to change that, you have to do it all together. It helps if consumers are more aware of this, because then they can make a more conscious choice. However, it also helps farmers, because they will see the results of the investments they make. I will come back to the labels, but I would like to say a few words about the animal protection label. The fact that it is a mark of animal protection gives me a very certain feeling as a consumer, because I know the importance of that mark. Sometimes companies put a label on something and I often don't know if I'm getting the information I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u52	That is precisely why we need to reduce this whole range of labels to one label, but we will come back to that later. I would now like to zoom in on transparency. Transparency ensures that people see what is happening, that awareness increases and that they end up standing on the barricades because they don't want it anymore. Furthermore, it is important for those kilo-bullers to make the whole chain transparent from farmer to consumer, which means that the underlying prices must be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u53	I share Mrs Koşer Kaya's ambition. I will see how I can take steps in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u54	When I listen to the Secretary of State, I get the feeling that the ban on sales is not going to go below cost. I regret that, because supermarkets have 20% too much gross floor space and therefore compete with each other. To have so much faith in supermarkets... I don't think that's gonna be him either. Can we make the agreement that the Secretary of State will sit at the table with the Alliance Sustainability Food to conclude a covenant in which it will be settled between now and six months? No more bananas for €1 and no more kilo shooters! In the meantime, I think that the Secretary of State should take stock of what can be done against below-cost sales in other European countries. We can talk about that again before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u55	The question of whether a ban on sales can be below cost is not so much the question. Probably it's incredibly difficult to enforce, because then you have to determine what the cost price is. The question is whether it works. That's the question you need to ask yourself. Do we end up achieving the goal we want to achieve? That's my objection to it. The question is not whether it is possible, the question is not whether it is allowed, but the question is whether it does what you want it to do. You want farmers to end up with more money and therefore also have the space to invest in more animal welfare. That is why I would like to take this up with the sector, because I think the change has to come from there, because change only works if the money finds its way through the food chain and ends up with the farmer. We can arrange things as a government, but you can't force everything. Real change is only realized if you do it together and if you convince the parties in the chain. I said just now in reply to Mrs Dikkers' questions: if it is necessary to regulate this as a government because the change will not happen otherwise, I will not hesitate to do so, but I see it as a burden resort. I believe that changes will be better and more sustainable if they are achieved together. Mrs Dik asks me if I am prepared to table with the Alliance Sustainability Food. Of course I want to do that, and of course I want to make arrangements with it. I do not know whether Mrs Dik's ambition is realistic within six months, but I would like to show you as soon as possible what results this can achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u56	These are all wonderful words from the Secretary of State, which I can all share, but I think it is still too open. I'm not a legal or regulatory person myself. I would also prefer to do it on the basis of agreements with friendly supermarkets, benevolent consumers and so on, but that is simply not the reality. Keep on dreaming! I want a covenant between the Secretary of State and the Alliance of Sustainability Food that we'll have it settled in six months' time, or my share in a year's time. I just want hard agreements: this is what we're gonna do with each other! I want commitment from parties. Now there's talk in that alliance, and we all think it's important, but in the meantime, nothing happens. Those supermarkets just have too much floor space, compete out of the tent and stunt in the run-up to Christmas with the turkeys. I'm done with that. I want the Secretary of State to make clear arrangements that I can control as a Member of Parliament. A covenant must be a first step towards legislation and regulation. It's not laws and regulations yet. They'll get a chance to do it on their own. If we fail, we will have a stick behind the door in the form of legislation and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u57	Mrs Dik is too pessimistic about the commitment from the supermarkets. There is indeed a movement in progress to make the transition of the meat in the Dutch supermarkets as we know it to the meat of animals who have had a better life. That commitment is indeed there. It is not for nothing that we are talking about this. If I didn't see this, I wouldn't be so optimistic here either. However, from supermarkets there is still an irresponsible way of stunting meat; we have this debate for a reason. I want that to end, and I want to make agreements about it; let that be clear. My ambition is to tell the Chamber more about this as soon as possible. My period is limited by the time of the next Lower House elections. That's about a year and a half from now. My ambition is certainly to show progress on this. Well, that's pretty short notice, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u58	I get a little off the path, I'd almost say, when I hear what's said about stumping with meat. It originally started with the message from Mrs. Dikkers that she wants the kilo-bullers out of the shelves, but only 1% of the meat in the supermarket is a kilo-blaster. That's what we're talking about. Or does this Secretary of State's ambition continue? Then we still have a debate on this, because there are a lot of entrepreneurs in this country who are working very hard to get a responsible, high-quality, food-safe piece of meat on the shelves. That brings me back to my previous call. Does this Secretary of State consider that meat, which we know in this country and which has been produced by European laws, would be a kilo-blaster? Or is it really about the definition as we know it and are we talking about only 1% of the meat? I also have a brief second question. Yesterday, Mrs Dikkers, in the media, blacked out the sector quite a bit. It has deceived the consumer by saying that animals are kept alive by antibiotics. I would also like a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u59	I'll be on antibiotics later. I'll go into that later. I do not have to advise Mrs Lodder to talk to pig farmers, because I know that she does so regularly. So she also knows that they are worried about the price they get paid for that piece of meat they work so hard for. I do not believe that many pig farmers currently feel that they are getting a fair price for this. So yes, my ambition would be to look at how we can work together with the food chain to ensure that farmers who work so hard and want to make the transition to more animal welfare get a fair price. They must therefore be able to earn a decent living. I certainly have that ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u60	But the discussion was initially wagered on the kilo shooters. Of course, the VVD also thinks that someone who produces a piece of meat should be able to ask for a fair price. At the same time, we also have market forces. I believe that consumers in the supermarket should have the choice of what piece of meat they take out of the shelves. If there's an offer, especially for the holidays but also for the rest of the year, that should be possible. It is not for the government to impose restrictions on that. For me, it is extremely important to know what we are talking about. Are we really just talking about the kilo shooters? That was the subject of the debate. How do we proceed with that? Perhaps it would be a good idea to get a more comprehensive letter from the Secretary of State before we take all kinds of measures. Mrs Dik-Faber also indicated that she was not in the legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u61	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u62	That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u63	The reason for this debate was Mrs Dikkers' comments on kilo-bullers. I have already indicated that I find the stunting with meat irresponsible and unheard of, because this leads to an additional price pressure throughout the chain, which ultimately the farmer pays the price and the animal is screwed. I want to change that together with the sector. I see that in the food chain, even in supermarkets, there is a desire to change that. That's why I'd like to hang out in that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u64	I want to thank the Secretary of State. It is a good start that he wants to support my request to do more with Made in Holland and that he wants to take up the implementation of the Graus motion for a better income model, as Secretary of State Dijksma, his predecessor, also intended. I'd like to bring up a few cases. The compliments to the Animal Protection Committee are justified. They're a very good lobbying party, but they're not inspectors and they're not enforcers. They don't do that very well. Something must also be done about reception. Secretary of State said an animal isn't a bottle of Coke. I'll share that. So I may be submitting this deadline to all my bill on animal rights in the Constitution, with this support from the Secretary of State. But it's about animal welfare. I have the following question to the Secretary of State. Now get rid of all the animal suffering from the NVWA. Put that down with the animal police. Make sure that they become full-timers and also get those few good members (LID: National Animal Protection Inspection Service) back to the animal police, because the best members are former animal police officers. Get those back to the animal police, too. Take care of that with the colleague of Security and Justice. And let Animal Protection lobby, sometimes sow panic and catch animals, but let them no longer interfere with control and enforcement, for it does indeed do so very meritoriously. I have to admit that. But make sure that animal welfare can be more involved in the collection of animals in need, because it does not always do that optimally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u65	With Made in Holland, I want more than I just said. I will come back to that later. The second point was the debate on the animal police. Mr Graus also knows that this cabinet has made a choice to organise it in a different way from what had happened in the previous period on the basis of its proposals. The cabinet chose to integrate it into regular police work and partly into the Member. I understand that debate very well in itself, certainly from the involvement of Mr Graus, but that debate has been repeated here. I'm not gonna change that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u66	That is a pity, because since the people of the animal police became parttimers, fewer animals have been seized and less domestic violence has been detected. 'Cause those guys did all that. The Member and the NVWA do not dent in a package of butter in this respect. They have no police and criminal jurisdiction. The best animal policemen in the east of the country I call Andre Assink, one of the best animal policemen in the Netherlands they have made a member. Now they have less powers than they had as animal police officers. And they have to act against those bastards. They're dangerous, deadly sick bastards. Then you must have police and criminal jurisdiction. As far as I'm concerned, they're even allowed to deploy arrest teams against animal executioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u67	The police have the power to act against animal abuse. They are integrated into regular police work, but they are also specifically deposited with police officers who have a task accent on them. This debate should be held by Mr Graus with my colleagues in the field of security and justice. I am sure that he or one of his colleagues will do the same. There is a need to debate police involvement in the field of animal cruelty.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u68	No, Mr Graus, it is Mr Dijkgraaf's turn now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u69	Good thing the Secretary of State says it has to be seen much wider than just the kilo shooters: it's a fair price for a fair product. In practice, there are very often competition rules in the chain that look very unilaterally at the economic model rather than at sustainability and animal friendliness. There's a lot of discussion going on about that. How does the Secretary of State view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u70	That is why I have just announced that the Minister of EZ will come forward with new policy rules on sustainability and competition before the end of this year. There are concerns about whether the competition rules provide sufficient scope for sustainability initiatives. These may also be animal welfare initiatives; see the concerns of the ACM against Kip van Morgen. These new policy rules will be published for consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u71	Is the Secretary of State closely involved in this process, so that animal welfare and sustainability are integrated in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u72	Sure. The cooperation with the minister is perfect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u73	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u74	Another important element in the fair production of our food at a fair price is supervision. The responsibility for safe products lies primarily with the producer, but the government has the task of monitoring. In doing so, the supervision of NVWA is of great importance for safeguarding public interests, such as public health, including food health, animal health and plant health, and the export position of the agricultural sector. The confidence of citizens and businesses in safe food and products depends on it. Several members, including Mr Van Gerven, Mr Dijkgraaf and Mrs Dik-Faber, have asked for the budget of the NVWA. An adjustment was made to the financial framework agreed at the end of 2013. I informed the Chamber in a letter that I found that some of the bottlenecks identified in 2015 are likely to occur in 2016 and beyond. That is why, also from the budgetary framework for NVWA, I have indicated that I will launch two actions. Firstly, this is a review of the efficiency of the NVWA. The plan of action launched two years ago is comprehensive. This should further strengthen supervision. But it has already been reported at the time that inherent in such an operation is the risk that not all savings can be achieved, or not at the rate envisaged. That is what is happening here, but that does not mean that I want to accept the fact that these savings are not being made. I would like to see whether monitoring has been carried out as efficiently as possible and whether other savings are possible, and if so, at what rate. That's why we're looking at efficiency. Secondly, the budget in the EZ budget is falling. This has been in the multiannual budget for a long time. But the ambitions for supervision are anything but falling back. The pressure from the Chamber is of course also present. We all want the best possible supervision. However, this requires me to review the contract package in order to ensure a structural balance between the budget and the level of supervision requested for the coming years. I am therefore sending the Chamber the progress report in spring, including the results of the actions I mentioned. And if necessary, I will come up with additional measures in the spring paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u75	We have a debate on it next week, so I do not want to dwell on it for very long, but still for a while. I've been asking questions about the investigation. I understand that the Secretary of State is keen to work on this in order to be able to amend something in the spring paper. But an investigation can only help at a time when it is really profound, i.e. going into the organization's capillaries, so to the workplace where inspectors are approving. Can the Secretary of State confirm that the investigation is so in-depth and that he will take extra time if more time is needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u76	The research is intended to have an insight into the efficiency of NVWA already in the short term, i.e. in the spring, into possible savings opportunities at NVWA. If that study shows that savings may occur in the future, but that more in-depth research is needed, we will of course do so. But the NVWA is in the middle of a change operation, which is comprehensive, and therefore already looks at the processes of the NVWA in depth. There is a major organisational change going on, which should ultimately lead to stronger supervision, but which is also expected and hopes that it can lead to more efficient supervision, namely a much more focused monitoring based on risk analyses, with risk-oriented use of supervision. Monitoring is also expected to be organised more efficiently. My answer to Mrs Lodder is thus as follows. We want to have more insight into this in the spring, but if it shows that there is a need to go deeper into something, we will of course do so. However, the ambition remains to be clear about this in the spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u77	Mrs. Lodders, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u78	I'm struggling a lot with that. I would like to have the debate on this with the Secretary of State next week. Is the Secretary of State prepared to share the description of the investigation with the Chamber in anticipation of that debate next week? I fear that otherwise we will not fully meet each other's expectations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u79	I think that's not so bad, because a review of efficiency is also what it's meant to be, namely: we're looking at efficiency. Mrs. Lodders suggested take your time. I don't want to, and we don't have that time. I just want results to be visible in the spring. That's my ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u80	Is the Secretary of State willing to share that with the Chamber? Otherwise I'll have to make a motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u81	You will have a debate on this next week. We're gonna interrupt a lot, so we're just not gonna do it like this anymore. Maybe the Secretary of State can...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u82	I've already shared my intention in the letter. Let us talk about it again next week as to whether it is sufficiently clear. I'm coming to the fees. A number of Members have asked questions about this. The NVWA carries out tasks for the business community, so that it can export its products, for example. The total export value is 80 billion and the fees total about 70 million. So that's less than a promille of the total export value. The principle is that the costs incurred by the NVWA are included in the rate and that the rate is cost-covering. Costs must be passed on according to business principles. In line with the Maatbehouden report, the rule is that supervisory costs are, in principle, passed on if one or several parties benefit specifically from them. That is the principle of profit. A well-functioning NVWA, in particular to maintain the export position, is also of benefit to the business community. I just mentioned that. The cabinet believes that the costs should be passed on. All or part of public funding, as Mr Geurts asked, is not on the table. There is therefore no question of a reduction in fees either. The 2013 revision of the system of fees has also worked towards simplifying the system of fees. However, a number of arrangements have also been made to bridge the transition to fully cost-covering tariffs for business. They did come under the responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. In 2016, the next step will be to fully cover the costs of the NVWA's tariffs. Mr Geurts also referred to the competitiveness and employment offered by the Dutch sea and airports. A study comparing the total cost of port calls and transits on the goods flows examined with the costs in the neighbouring countries shows that ours are not out of step. The Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment has announced that it will discuss concrete cases in which unbalanced tariffs could lead to cargo slippage so that specific solutions can be found for these cases. Mr Dijkgraaf asked about the signal given by industry organisations on this issue. On 11 November 2015, the first consultation took place with the organisations concerned, including Transport and Logistics Netherlands and official representatives of my department, the departments of I and M and VWS and the NVWA. During this consultation, agreement was reached on the issues to be addressed with the sectors. Follow-up consultations will take place at the beginning of 2016. In addition, two studies have been launched in the framework of the Customisation Action Plan Approach to Regulatory Pressure Logistics. The first study looks at the streamlining of legislation and the monitoring of plant health and veterinary goods. The second study, on the plant chain, focuses on the method and rates of laboratory research in the import of high-risk foods from countries with an increased public health risk. The results of this study are expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2016. Then, of course, the Chamber will be informed about this. This brings me to the labels.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u83	I've been waiting for the end of the block about the NVWA; that seemed efficient to me. The Secretary of State said he was coming in spring with a letter about the results of the NVWA, the tension, the budget and the tasks. From the letter he has already sent, you could conclude that the budget will no longer be looked at. From the wording used by the Secretary of State here, I could conclude that it is simply assessed in its entirety and that we then consider what is needed. The Secretary of State therefore does not rule out the need to increase the budget if the evaluation shows that more budget is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u84	I assume that you have read the last sentence of my letter correctly; that proves this too, but for me the starting point is always to do it with the existing budget. Only if that is not justified will I come up with further proposals. That's what the letter says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u85	That's clear. The second point concerns shippers. It is good that this consultation has started and that action is being taken. Is the Secretary of State really gonna rush that? We are constantly getting complaints from this sector. There are, of course, always complaints, but looking at what is being said, a great improvement is possible. So is there really a rush?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u86	If there are two investigations in progress, when the results are ready in the first quarter of 2016 and when the Chamber receives information, it seems to me to fall within what you call "hurry'. Right? That's pretty fast. The first quarter of 2016 is within four months.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u87	That depends a little bit on what happens next, because we sometimes see research, because a researcher I have been a researcher myself, and I come to the conclusion that further research needs to be carried out. Then we'll go from one quarter to the next. So I am really concerned about actual measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u88	It is in the interest of all those involved in the investigation that this also provides clarity as to what happens with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u89	I think the Secretary of State is talking fairly lightly about the NVWA tariff for business. Anyway, we have another AO next week. I also want to respond in fact to his answers. In the Netherlands, for example, you pay €225 per hour for shellfish exports. In Ireland €20, in France €20, in Australia €40 and in Scotland this is free. So you can see our competitive position in relation to other countries getting worse. The export of shellfish is very important for the province of Zeeland, for example. The Secretary of State must not talk so lightly about this. I ask the Secretary of State to get that piece back and take a closer look at it. It really is a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u90	I have indicated two things about this. Firstly, the policy, which has also been agreed with the Court, is to ensure that the costs incurred by companies directly benefiting from exports themselves are fully passed on to the business community. It's been approved by the Chamber. Secondly, Mr Geurts is comparing the rates. In my opinion, however, he himself knows that in the countries he mentions there are sometimes other costs for business, which are not included in the rates but are levied in a different way, whereas in our case these costs are fully included in the rates. So that comparison doesn't always apply. I just turned that in. Research has been carried out on the total port call and transit costs, which have also shown that the total costs do not match the costs that exist in our neighbouring countries. Furthermore, I have just informed the Chamber that it will receive the results of the investigations that are still under way in the spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u91	I do find it special: if our entrepreneurs operate very efficiently in the Netherlands, they will be fined by this cabinet. After all, the more efficient they are, the higher the rates of NVWA may seem to be, because the total costs are not out of line. Anyway, we'll talk about that next week. The Secretary of State also indicated that he has conducted investigations and that the results of these investigations will come to the Chamber. Can he also send the research assignment to the Chamber very quickly, so that we can involve it in next week's AO?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u92	Firstly, the total costs referred to by Mr Geurts are the total costs charged by the public authorities to companies. Let me say again: in our neighbouring countries, costs are sometimes taken into account in a different way with industry than through tariffs. Mr Geurts can compare the rates, disregarding what companies in those countries still have to pay by another route, but this does not make a fair comparison. Then the picture could be that companies in the Netherlands are much more expensive out. However, I have already referred to research, which Mr Geurts knows well too, which shows that the total costs at which companies run are not out of line with those in our neighbouring countries. Secondly, together with the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment, I will examine whether the Chamber can be informed about the research assignment, in so far as the Chamber does not already have it, of the research that is now being carried out together with the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u93	I'm gonna get to the hallmarks. There are many labels for food. Mrs Koşer Kaya was right to point this out. This can be quite confusing for the consumer, even for the consumer who is aware of it. Labels cover different sustainability aspects, such as animal welfare, the environment and social standards. This also shows the complexity. They are not in a simple and clear sustainability stop light, as Mrs Koşer Kaya proposes. A traffic light system does not do justice to all nuances that play around durability. It could even lead to an orange traffic light on almost all the products you encounter in the supermarket because there are always positive things and negative things. Then it doesn't provide the information you're looking for. Environment Central also indicates rather than opting for a traffic lights model to increase the awareness of the existing labels, by providing more explanation. 'Cause what's it all about in the end? We hope that these labels will lead to awareness among consumers, that consumers will make conscious choices on this basis, and that this will also have an impact on the way products are produced. That's the move I want to give all the space. If that means that sometimes there is a new label that is a step more sustainable, then I welcome it. Brands are the result of sustainable production. I think that companies that do their best to take a step further should show that with a label. However, too many labels can lead to better-intentioned labels becoming less effective and consumers dropping out because they can no longer see the forest through the trees. The Court can expect two reports on the multitude and effectiveness of labels in the short term. These are a report by Environment Centraal commissioned by the Secretary of State of I and M, and an internal preliminary investigation by the ACM. The results of these investigations and our response to the recommendations will be reported to the Chamber very soon. In addition, the conversation is also held with the Alliance Sustainability Food and other interested parties. They have been asked to organise food labels themselves in order to increase the awareness and functioning of labels. The alliance partners are now working together with the Environment Central. We involve various stakeholders, such as the NGOs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u94	The forest of labels was created because the government does not provide a framework. The government leaves it to the market, which of course has an ear for all kinds of niche markets where just a little more money can be made. It is, of course, a question of responding to the increasing demand of citizens for responsible food. You can leave that to the market, which then comes with all kinds of niche markets, but the fact remains that we are an exporting country. Most products therefore go abroad, which does not require a label at all. It is therefore of little use to citizens to change the system. So we will have to set a sort of minimum standard that is higher than what we now have in the field of animal welfare and the environment. Then you get a level playing field. Then we all know what the minimum standards are and what the product meets. Then we don't need the labels. Doesn't the Secretary of State just agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u95	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u96	Ah, a new chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u97	A new sound.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u98	Do I agree that the forest of labels could be simpler and more transparent? Yes. Do I agree that it's up to the government to do that? No. Nor can you prevent business from taking initiatives and making its sustainability visible. I am in favour, as I just outlined, of working with the business community to see how we can make things clearer. That is what I want to talk about in the Alliance Sustainability Food, together with the partners sitting at the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u99	Of course, you will always have to act together with the sector to see if there is more to be done in the areas of animal welfare, nature and the environment. The Secretary of State himself says, however, that it is incredibly difficult to bring that back to a hallmark of traffic lights, and that there are already other ideas on how to do that. Then it would be logical for the Labour Party to come up with the proposal yesterday to at least outline a framework? It does not want production to be below cost, but to give the citizen a responsible product at a fair price. Well, then that step makes sense, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u100	What would also make sense is that Mrs Thieme is waiting for the report from Environment Central. I told you, this is coming to the Chamber very soon. The Chamber has every opportunity to hold a debate on this matter. Then she can do the same on the basis of the investigation she knows is on the way and is almost with the Chamber. That would encourage the debate, because then Mrs Thieme will see how, for example, Environment Central itself looks at it and what we do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u101	This is a missed opportunity. This new Secretary of State could have picked this up, because he also has a responsibility towards consumers, so that they are not fooled by dozens of labels. I have here a poster with a number of hallmarks, approved by the Food Centre. These would be reliable labels. The Secretary of State sees it: there are a lot of them. And then there are labels that aren't on here, which haven't been approved by the Food Centre. We want consumers to make conscious choices. I don't believe in: I can't. I hope this Secretary of State also says: 'Can't exist, so I'm going to try and bring this back to a clear system with the sector.' You can do it in England, too. Why not here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u102	Let me give you an example. Mrs Koşer Kaya asked for two traffic lights: one for sustainability and one for animal welfare, I believe. And one for health. Then you could also introduce a traffic light for fair trade, which was also on her list. Then we're on four traffic lights on the package. I'm a pretty conscious consumer myself. I want to know sometimes. If you buy chocolate, for example, that's very topical in these days, then you might want to know if it's produced fairly and if cocoa farmers get a fair price. That is a different question than whether it is also produced sustainably. You might want to know that, too. Conscious consumers sometimes have more questions than can be seen in two traffic lights. If you simplify it too much, you might as well get less information. That is why I doubt the model proposed by Mrs Koşer Kaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u103	You can do it in England, too. I really do not understand why it would not be possible in the Netherlands. Nor do I understand why the Secretary of State does not say to consumer and producer organisations and experts that they should sit down together to reduce the number of labels. After all, we have a responsibility to the consumer so that they can make conscious choices. We'll get rid of those kilos of bullets, too. A conscious choice also means you don't buy kilos of bullets anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u104	Mrs Koşer Kaya wanted the sector and the organisations concerned to sit down and make improvements. That's exactly what I said. However, that is different from the fact that I draw it to me from the government and say: we will take care of it ourselves. No, I want parties in the chain to see if they can simplify that forest of labels together with civil society organisations. I agree with Mrs Koşer Kaya that you often no longer see the forest through the trees. If you want to make a conscious choice as a consumer, it is useful that you understand what is on the packaging and that you do not have to go through five or six labels. Sometimes I have packaging in my hands with multiple labels. Then I'm thinking, "What am I supposed to do with it?" It must be understandable, but the initiative must remain with the parties themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u105	I would like to support Mrs Koşer Kaya on this point. There is a forest of labels, as the Secretary of State himself says. It's been for years. Each time the mantra is "it must come from the organisations themselves," but that does not lead to any substantial change, except that more labels are added. I do not think that the Secretary of State should take the initiative entirely, but that he should take a little more direction and initiative to bring parties together. Eventually, there is nothing wrong with a single hallmark, or if there is no other option, two, but not more.. which has the authority of the government. I think this is good for the consumer. Would the Secretary of State like to go into that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u106	I can go into it again, but I'm afraid I'll repeat myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u107	Let's not do that. I'm gonna recognize things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u108	You're starting to recognize it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u109	Yeah, while I'm just sitting here for a few minutes. I can almost give you your answer. Do it briefly in two sentences.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u110	I think it should be simpler and clearer. I want to tackle this together with the sector and civil society organisations, and I have already outlined how. I come to the subject of regionalisation. That was, among other things, a point made by Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u111	And then you're gonna talk about the fine plan. Then we'll have lunch. So we're gonna do these two short cubes and then we're gonna grab a bite to eat.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u112	That's what I suspected. All this talking about food makes me hungry. I think it would be wise to do that. The cabinet endorses the WRR's desire to make the food system more robust. Regionalisation of food production can contribute to this. Good market functioning is also important in this context. For example, the cabinet in Europe sees room for more regional cultivation and marketing of protein crops, including in order to reduce dependence on imports of protein crops. This can contribute to improving the regional cycle, the availability of raw materials and the protein transition. Business is currently engaged in an initiative to develop cultivation and new market chains. It seeks support from other stakeholders and governments. The cabinet wants to facilitate these developments through the top sector policy. At the moment, the Hague Centre for Strategic Studies is also conducting a research to gain more insight into the robustness of the food system. This is about the vulnerabilities and dependencies of imports. I would also like to take this into account in the coming year where our vulnerabilities lie and what we can do about them. I will inform the Chamber of the results of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u113	The Scientific Council for Government Policy has indicated on regionalisation that we must get rid of the focus on exports. The Secretary of State has said a great deal about exporting knowledge in the context of sustainability, which I fully agree with. However, we must be cautious in the export of animal products, because production must take place there. Does the Secretary of State agree with the WRR that we should shift the focus from the export of all kinds of agricultural products, especially animal products, to the regionalisation of the products here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u114	I must say to Mrs Thieme that most of our exports go to European countries. From the Netherlands you can see that as exports, but from Europe it is the domestic market. I'll take that as a region. All distant international transports are less desirable from the point of view of sustainability. However, we are currently importing a lot of soya from South America and we do not have any alternatives in Europe, although the development of alternatives is being looked at within Europe. This is desirable from the point of view of sustainability, but also from the point of view of our vulnerability, because we can never be completely self-sufficient, almost nobody in the world can. However well we try to make gene bananas and pineapples, we will not succeed in being self-sufficient. There will always be imports and exports of food. If we want to feed the growing world population in a sustainable way, this will also have to be done more regionally. We must be careful that we are not too vulnerable and that is why this centre of strategic studies in The Hague is also doing that research on vulnerability.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u115	Certainly, that is why the whole food debate has many parallels with the energy debate. We are becoming less dependent on other countries with imports. We also see that within the trade missions organised by this cabinet to Japan and China, for example, efforts are being made to dispose of veal. To China, where most people are lactose intolerant, efforts are being made to transport Dutch milk. That doesn't fit in with the concept of sustainability that this Secretary of State says so many fine words about, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u116	Import and export will always be there. I know the trade mission to Japan a little bit, because it was originally in my predecessor's agenda. Luckily, the minister went there so I could get the room to work my way into it a little bit more. Knowledge, innovation and technology are a strong component of this mission. I have been with the trade mission to South Africa myself; most of it was about knowledge and technology. South Africa, like us, needs apples all year round. You can discuss that. I also think it's okay if you eat more fruit and vegetables from the season. The need is there and one cannot produce apples and pears all year round. If we are there and we are trying to make agreements to deliver apples and pears from the Netherlands in the season South Africa cannot produce them itself, it has great advantages for our growers. It would be beneficial if we could increase the market, especially after the Russian market has disappeared. They will always be there, but the emphasis on these kinds of missions is more and more on knowledge and technology. Mrs Thieme does not have to worry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u117	I agree with the focus on regionalisation. I tabled a motion on this last year during the budget debate and I kept it. Will the Secretary of State respond in second term to that motion being held? I'd really appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u118	If Mrs. Dik asks me, I will. I'll get back to you in second term. Finally, I would like to address the policy of penalties for farmers and the plan of the SGP. The SGP provides regular signals from farmers faced with sanctions that do not appear to be consistent with the gravity of the infringement. This has led the SGP to draw up the Action Plan A fair fine for farmers. Red line is that the administrative fine should not be a fixed fine but allow for adjustment to the gravity of the offence. I totally agree with that. In practice, the level of an administrative fine must be related to the gravity of an offence. This requires legislation and regulation on the basis of which this assessment can be made. I confine myself to the areas referred to by the SGP and note that the Animal Law, the Fertilisers Act and the Plant Protection Products Act, together with the General Administrative Law, already provide that balancing framework. Therefore, I do not see any reason to come forward now with proposals for adapting enforcement policy. The scope requested by the SGP is already in existing legislation and is being applied in this way. The SGP also mentions in the Action Plan the reductions in non-compliance with the framework conditions of the common agricultural policy. Let us be clear that we are implementing European legislation in this area. The European system which provides the basis for a reduction in payment entitlements in the event of non-compliance is mandatory. We have chosen within that system to use the earlywarning system, which means that in the case of certain minor non-compliance, no reduction is imposed but only a warning is given. The discount is only available if no action is taken on this warning. The SGP is asking me to give a warning first. I'd be happy to make this kind of commitment, because we already are.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u119	It is true that legislation and regulations provide this space, but take, for example, the Plant Protection Products and Biocidal Products Scheme. It says that the fine is €1,500. In effect, the scheme, that balance has been removed and so it simply states that in the event of an infringement the fine is €1,500. However, the law states that the fine is up to €1,500. It's about that kind of thing. Would the Secretary of State like to take another look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u120	Of course, I would like to look again at what Mr Dijkgraaf is saying now, but the legislative framework already allows for fines to be in line with the gravity of infringements. Moreover, if people feel that they are being fined which does not comply with that principle, they are always free to appeal against it. The judge can then make a decision. It is not possible for me, on the basis of the examples given by Mr Dijkgraaf, to assess the situation in individual cases. Fortunately, we have a judge for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u121	That's not what I'm asking. If the plant protection regulation states that it is not a maximum of €1,500 but the fine is just €1,500, then I understand that the Secretary of State says: we have to change that scheme, because as I put it, €1,500 should be the maximum fine. If that's the promise, I love it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u122	I will come back to that in the second term. Let me take a closer look at what Mr Dijkgraaf has to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u123	I fully agree that minor violations should be subject to a slight penalty, but I have talked about the food scandal at Foppen. As a result, thousands of people have died and become ill. That kind of assholes, food mafia, it's almost like you're gonna have to take it hard. I read it in my first term: in the U.S., similar bastards were given 28 years, 20 years and 5 years in jail. The quality manager, not even the final manager, has been in prison for 5 years, and preferably on water and bread. People laugh at the fines in the Netherlands and that invites food scandals to come here. Millions of dollars are made from these food frauds and they like to pay several thousand or tens of thousands of euros. And let it be $810,000 in a minute, but that's what they're laughing about. We need to do something about adoption-and-shaming. They need to be taken in and out of society, and such a company needs to get a red card right away. I've been asking for that for years. I would have liked to have had a reaction from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u124	When it comes to increasing the fines in the area I am dealing with, I very much agree with Mr Graus. He can expect information about that. However, the example of Foppen mentioned by Mr Graus must be discussed with the Minister for Health. As he knows, we share responsibility for the supervision by the NVWA and therefore also for the fines. When it comes to public health, she is the one to whom Mr Graus should speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u125	I'll share that in part. The Secretary of State has an influence on his colleague from Health and also on his colleague from Security and Justice, but in addition he is the Secretary of State responsible for the NVWA. For years, a policy of padding and wet keeping has been applied to Foppen. That's what got us killed in the end. I warned you about that before anyone died. Apparently, people had to die first. Now they've been killed and nothing's happening. The people involved are still not in jail. I can't understand that. In America, they had been locked up for decades.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u126	I understand Mr Graus' point. I am indeed in charge of NVWA, but the NVWA oversees the legislation that is accepted by Parliament. The legislation on public health states what the rules are and how high the fines and penalties are. The debate on this must take place with Mr Graus and my colleague from Health.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u127	In recent years, we have been dealing with a lot of food scandals. I'm thinking about the meat that had poop bacteria on it and the scandal of horse meat fraud. Yesterday, a verdict was made in a court of law. The judge said that the NVWA should have published the production names and the customers, so that people knew where the horse meat had ended up and so also knew if it might have ended up in their freezer. My question to the Secretary of State is whether he intends, if a food scandal occurs again, to make clear immediately who the meat came from and where it is for sale, so that consumers can choose whether or not they are going to consume it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u128	Mrs Thieme has already indicated that this is a statement that was made yesterday. I think it is good that I study it together with the NVWA, to find out what this statement means for future situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u129	Can we then receive a letter in which the Secretary of State responds to the judge's ruling?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u130	The pronunciation is still very fresh and yesterday I had a number of other activities, including listening to the Chamber, so I have not been able to study the pronunciation properly. So I have not been able to properly assess the meaning of the ruling, including for future situations. Let us consider this first. Then I'll inform the Chamber. I've come to the end of my first block. You thought this would be a good time to go to lunch. I'm not going over that, but I thought that was a good idea in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-03-tweedekamer-4.u131	I take the suggestion to heart. I'll tell the members I'm going to lunch for 45 minutes. At 2 p.m., we will continue with the work. There will also be a VSO on the Environment Council, in which Mrs Dijksma will be present. So if you still need some information on this policy area, perhaps you can ask it later in the wings. After the VSO we continue with the second block of the reply of the Secretary of State.
