ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u2	Mr. Chairman. We discussed top sector policy in a general discussion with the Minister for Economic Affairs. One of the things the CDA would like to emphasise once more is cross-sectoral innovation. Recently we were at the Dutch Design Week and we were informed about the creative industry. Also colleague Van Veen was there. The creative industry itself concluded that there should be more cross-sectoral innovation. It seems to me that it would be a good idea to move on to other sectors where necessary. I shall table a motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the top sectors policy is a good basis for strengthening public-private cooperation in innovation in the Netherlands, which can be further built on;]] [[Whereas the Science, Technology and Innovation Advisory Council (AWTI) and the Government Policy Scientific Council (WRR) have noted the importance, due to societal and economic challenges, of more frequent cross-sectoral partnerships in top sectors policy;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine how cross-sectoral cooperation that meets societal and economic challenges can be put more at the heart of the top sector policy in a subsequent period of innovation contracts, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before 1 June 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32637-209]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u3	Mr. Chairman. A few weeks ago, we had a debate on a number of issues relating to innovation. My motion concerns the innovation of the Chamber of Commerce, one of my favourite subjects that I have been dealing with for a long time. The motion concerns open dates. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a public Trade Register is good for the economy, trade and investment and can lead to innovation in services;]] [[whereas in many of the countries around us, such as the United Kingdom, Belgium and Norway, the Trade Register is public;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with an investigation to unlock the Trade Register as open dates and to inform the Chamber in spring 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32637-210]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u4	Mr. Chairman. I, too, look back on a pleasant general discussion with the Minister. Just about the Dutch Venture Initiative we haven't really gotten closer. I've read the report again. The VVD pleads not for sale, as the Minister indicated in the debate, but for an investigation. That investigation should include: what would a partial sale of the DVI mean for the government? I would also very much like to know the status of the market failure, which ultimately led to the launch of the DVI. According to my information, institutional investors are now certainly willing to co-invest in publicly funded solutions. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch Venture Initiative (DVI) has been successful and interest shown by institutional investors as pension funds in taking over the public sector in this fund;]] [[Whereas, as the economy draws on, the market failure in the availability of venture capital is reduced and market players are given more room for such investment, thereby reducing the need for a State contribution;]] [[calls on the Government to make an inventory of the book value and budgetary consequences of any sale of parts of the DVI,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Veen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32637-211]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u5	Mr. Chairman. I would like to respond to each of the three motions tabled by the spokesmen, as they should. I shall begin with the motion in which Mrs Mulder, as she did during the general consultation, points out that she considers cross-sectoral innovation to be of great importance. She does this, among other things, as a result of a working visit she has made together with a number of colleagues in the Chamber. I very much agree with her. Cross-sectoral innovation, i.e. what is happening at the interface between the top sectors, is of the utmost importance. I am aware of this and the cabinet is aware of it. For this reason, all the knowledge and innovation agendas we have just adopted explicitly focus on cross-sectoral innovation. This also means that cross-sectoral innovation is currently taking place across the board. I would like to mention just a few examples of the many I can mention. For example, the top sector AgriFood works together with the top sector Gardening and Output Materials, the top sector HTSM (High tech systems and materials) and ICT. There is therefore cross-sectoral cooperation. Next, the top sectors of Chemistry and HTSM, together with the top sector Energy, are working on all kinds of developments. Energy is also working on Logistics and on HTSM. The top sectors are also working with all of them on the Biobased Economy. The way in which we organise ICT is also completely cross-sectoral. We also do this in the case of the Smart Industry. We are really working on this cross-sectoral innovation across the board. Its importance is crystal clear. Now there is a motion asking for an investigation into how cross-sectoral innovation can be put even more at the centre. However, it is already at the heart of the matter. I don't know what else I can do. So I think this would really be an unnecessary investigation. That is why I would advise against Mrs Mulder's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u6	During that visit to the Dutch Design Week, the TKI made it clear to the creative industry that it did not have a very concrete objective such as, so to speak: we want to do 15% minimum cross-sectoral. It is precisely a question of realising this objective. Next, it is important to learn from each other what works and what does not. That is what we want to see before 1 June next year, so that we can bring it back into the follow-up negotiations and the question of how we can improve this further. That is the question the CDA is asking the Minister. I am therefore pleased that the Minister pays so much attention to this. I can tell by him, too. It would be nice if we could make that further impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u7	A quantitative objective can make sense if you need a driver, if you do something too little and you have to put something down for yourself that constantly reminds you to do more about it. However, we are already working very actively on it, because we are convinced that it is very useful. I have mentioned a few examples, but I can give you a list of other examples. It's really happening. The quantitative targets therefore have no added value in this case. For that reason, I advise against the motion in part No. 209.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u8	The motion in part No. 210.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u9	In the Verhoeven motion to item No. 210 the Government is requested to examine whether the data in the Trade Register can be accessed as open dates. The registers are open in the sense that anyone can extract the information. The costs of the Chamber of Commerce were first financed by a contribution which the entrepreneurs had to pay. One company lost around €100 a year to finance the Chamber of Commerce. That's what we stopped doing. The annual contribution has been cancelled; these costs are now borne by the taxpayer. However, we have maintained that companies will have to pay a one-off sum of a few tens in the case of registration. That is a huge improvement in financial terms. We have also maintained that a contribution to the costs must be made to obtain specific data from the Trade Register. Some of the costs are therefore borne by the Empire, so the taxpayer, another part is borne by the users. The latter does not seem unwise to me, otherwise all the costs will be borne by the taxpayer. Those benefiting from the requested information may bear at least part of the costs thereof. It is an amount of 40 million to 50 million a year that will be released if it is no longer paid by banks, insurers and smaller companies. I do not think it would be wise to break that gap in the budget, even in view of the costs of the Chamber of Commerce which the Empire, that is to say the taxpayer, has borne. That is why I reject Mr Verhoeven's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u10	The Minister now pretends that in my motion I am calling for the dates of the Chamber of Commerce to be fully opened, as if it does not matter what we do next with the gap in the budget that this creates. Of course, that is absolutely not the case. I ask that, in the run-up to the review of the Chamber of Commerce Act, which will take place in 2017, an investigation be carried out into the possibility of opening up the dates of the Chamber of Commerce, all the more so because almost all countries in Europe have this approach and it is almost impossible that the Dutch trade registers will not follow in this respect. I would ask the Minister to include his considerations, but also the other considerations, and to look at the motion in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u11	Mr Verhoeven has a point to make when he says that this issue needs to be reviewed in the evaluation. It seems useful to me to do so. However, there is no need for an investigation. It is a question of whether we want a gap of 40 million to 50 million to be borne by the taxpayer. In that case, we will have to find cover for that. It is a political decision whether or not we want it. The amount is not in my budget, so I can't make it available anyway, but I don't need research. I'm not planning on doing anything different right now. I do not rule out the possibility that we will talk about it again in the course of the evaluation, in the light of things that can emerge from it. It seems to me, in view of Mr Verhoeven's attitude, that this is likely to happen. At the moment, however, I do not want to do that research because it is pointless and because the political will to make it free at the moment is not present, at least with me. The Van Veen motion in part No. 211 is about the Dutch Venture Initiative. The OECD has said that we of the developed countries are seventeenth in terms of the availability of venture capital in the Netherlands. We do not like that, because we like to be in the top five of all kinds of countries, so that seventeenth place is not good. For this reason, the cabinet has said a few times, when presenting the plans in the budget to support business financially, that the DVI is a very important instrument for us. We use money from the Empire and the European Investment Fund to set up a fund, the DVI, which invests in private investors' funds again. This combination of private investors' money, the Empire's money and the EIF's money will then be made available to risky, fast-growing innovative companies that cannot come up with debt, which we help to strengthen equity in this way. This is particularly necessary not only from the OECD data, but also from our own analyses. I want to maintain the current DVI and I am busy setting up a second DVI, which also attracts money from pension funds as Mr Van Veen wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u12	What's your verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u13	In his motion, Mr Van Veen proposes that we examine whether we can sell the DVI or parts of it. I am on another line, namely that we are putting a second DVI next to it, and advise against Mr Van Veen's motion. I'll just say this isn't something the government typically needs to do. As soon as I can draw the conclusion that it is no longer necessary, we will stop. This will be considered at a natural time, because the point of departure of the DVI is that the shares are sold after some time; you should think of about six years. At that time, we will consider whether this fund is still necessary at that time or whether we can leave it to the market in the future. At the moment, I would advise against Mr Van Veen's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u14	Clear! Mr Van Veen, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u15	You're putting a lot of pressure on me, Mr. President. I also asked the Minister a question about the market failure, which is part of the motion. We can very well imagine that the government is providing support when the market is not working. However, we are getting signals that the market is capable of taking over some of the risk. The government could therefore invest more in risky subsequent DVIs. Will the Minister comment on this, also in relation to the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u16	A brief response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u17	We put $100 million into that first DVI. There will be companies willing to take over for 50 million, but I do not think that is a good thing. There has been careful investment and it is intended that that money will come back. I do not see the point of rejecting that DVI and selling it to another person who can make money from it. By involving private investors and institutional investors in this way, we can ensure that risky and rapidly growing SMEs, small entrepreneurs, are supported. They need that kind of support. If they no longer need this support at some point, I stand alongside Mr Van Veen to put an end to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-19.u18	We have come to the end of this VAO. We shall be voting on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
