ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u1	I have already welcomed the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment to the Upper House. I shall give the floor first to Mr Terpstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. This afternoon we are discussing a bill aimed at improving the position of welfare recipients in the labour market by making demands on the ability to speak Dutch. At first glance, this seems to be a simple and simple matter. Who could be against this? Nevertheless, this bill was voted by roll-call vote in the Lower House. Why isn't I completely clear, but I don't have to. At the same time, in our GroenLinks Chamber, almost all international conventions on human rights and the fight against racial discrimination are in place to reject this proposal. I myself participated in a report of the Labour Foundation of 17 November 1981 on some aspects of labour market policy during my CNV period, which was before 1986. This report has come up again thanks to the cooperation of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment, which fortunately can find everything from the past. This report proposes the following: Obligatory measures should be taken to improve the Dutch language skills of foreign job seekers, without the government being able to derive criteria for expulsion from them. This was therefore part of the 1981 report of employers and employees. With such a past, it is difficult to reject the present bill. For me, it is difficult to imagine that these proposals could conflict with human rights conventions and the fight against racial discrimination. In this debate I hope to hear arguments from GroenLinks in order to understand something about their position on this point. The agreement in the report of the Foundation of Labour was not taken over by the then Minister of SZW, Den Uyl, arguing that the Netherlands is not an immigration country and that it never wants to be. I believe that the myth that we are not an immigration country has lasted far too long as a country. My own party, the CDA, did until about 1998. After that, we may have made too quick demands on immigrants, as if we had always been an immigration country. Many immigration countries such as America, Australia, Canada and New Zealand have always demanded that immigrants should speak English. I would like to hear from the GroenLinks spokesman whether these countries have always acted in violation of the spirit of the ECHR and the UN Convention against Racial Discrimination. I would also like to know why this has never happened. The government sees speaking Dutch as an effort and not as an obligation to achieve results. In this way, in the opinion of the CDA, sufficient account is taken of older welfare recipients, who, partly because of our country's non-committal policy in the past, do not speak enough Dutch. In the context of this reasoning, the CDA could most probably agree to a result obligation over a number of years. I would like to hear the views of the Secretary of State on this point. The municipalities play a very important role in both the Work and Assistance Act and the Participation Act. The CDA strongly supports this decentralisation. In this light, it is still a question of why the language requirement in the assistance cannot be left to the municipalities themselves. As far as I know, the municipality of Utrecht is already demanding that one should be able to speak Dutch. In Utrecht too, GroenLinks in particular has reservations about this. Can the Secretary of State explain again why this problem should be settled by the Empire in this law and why it cannot be left to the municipalities? Because the CDA is in danger of acting in violation of the ECHR by supporting this bill, and with the UN Convention against Racial Discrimination, I still have a few questions for GroenLinks. The Green Left spokesman's statement that the language requirement in our country would be contrary to the ECHR and also to the UN Convention against Racial Discrimination is very strongly based on indirect discrimination. Autochtone Dutchmen would almost all speak fluent Dutch, while this does not apply to parts of the immigrants. This creates indirect discrimination based on the difference in number. This reasoning raises a number of questions, based on the idea that the necessary fight against racial discrimination should not be called racism too quickly and too often. On the basis of the arguments put forward by GroenLinks, the CDA has voted against proposals several times in the past. For example, on 1 July 1994, on the day of the commemoration of the abolition of slavery in Suriname, we voted against the Promotion Act proportional participation in the labour market of immigrants in the Lower House. This law, Rosenmöller, required companies to register immigrants. Now I have a few questions for the GroenLinks spokesperson. Why does GroenLinks talk about native Dutch people and not about Dutch people speaking Dutch? Can you equate the difference between native Dutch people and parts of immigrants with a difference in race? Are the demands of this bill more acceptable if relatively more immigrants themselves would speak Dutch? If this reasoning were correct, language requirements in China, Germany and the Netherlands, for example, would be more racist than language requirements in England and France. In the latter countries, it is much more likely that parts of immigrants also speak English or French. In order to give informed advice to my group on our voting behaviour, I would like not only a clear answer from the Secretary of State, but also from the GroenLinks spokesperson.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. I think it is very honorable that Mr Terpstra pays so much attention to us and apparently gives us so much influence that he wants us to explain our position. I suggest I just deliver my own input. I hope that Mr Terpstra will be able to make a number of arguments out of my speech. Otherwise, I'd like to hear it from him. This bill illustrates government policy in two respects. On the one hand, this is in the tone with regard to migrants: there is an integration problem and we are going to solve it with more obligations. On the other hand, it confirms the double-mindedness of the cabinet towards municipalities. They are given more responsibilities in the context of the acclaimed municipal policy freedom, but at the same time they are burdened with more and more obligations, which again destroy policy freedom. The pressing question is the need for this bill. For many years now, municipalities have been able to commit welfare recipients to a successful reintegration of labour. This includes learning the Dutch language. Is the Secretary of State now facing problems with its implementation? Are there any reluctant municipalities or do they say that they do not have sufficient instruments at their disposal? Why can't the cabinet interfere with this decentralised task? This decentralisation arose precisely from the idea that the most appropriate choice could be made at local level close to the inhabitants. But this bill forces municipalities into a straitjacket. It calls for very good arguments and I haven't heard them yet. It is completely incomprehensible in the light of the WWB measures. The WWB was introduced only two months ago and it obliges municipalities to impose a measure if a beneficiary refuses to acquire knowledge necessary for good labour integration. Does the Secretary of State have little faith in the functioning of this law or in the municipal implementation of this law? In short, what is the added value of the legislative proposal before us? In this contribution, I address my group's two main objections to this bill. On the one hand, I will deal with its discriminatory effect, which I hope will also serve Mr Terpstra and, on the other hand, with the lack of a guarantee of a training offer for those who are required to receive training. According to the Government, there is equal application to all recipients of assistance, but this proposal does not prevent indirect discrimination. Those who can be forced to take a test will more often be ethnic Dutch or status holders. If you went to a Dutch school, you are exempt. However, that does not say everything about someone's language skills. We are dealing with a quarter of a million illiterate people in the Netherlands, including many native Dutch. However, they do not have the same obligations as those of ethnic origin if they have not spent that number of years in a Dutch school. The result is that disproportionately many low-literate immigrants are affected by this measure. With this unjustified distinction, the government is in conflict with Article 1 of our own Constitution, with the UN Convention on Racial Discrimination and with the Twelfth Protocol to the ECHR. In my written contribution, I also deal with the prohibition of discrimination under Union law. The government has not conclusively refuted this criticism and merely reiterates that there is no unequal treatment and that there is therefore no need to justify it. The typical form of indirect discrimination is always that the rules apply formally to everyone, but that they nevertheless affect certain groups disproportionately. And that is also the case here. That is also what the Secretary of State is covering, because if there is a difference, there is an objective justification for it, that is the reasoning. The effects of this unequal treatment are great, because although everyone under the Participation Act can be required to learn the Dutch language, it makes a lot of difference whether you belong to the exemption category or not. If you have an exemption, then there is no test and the college of B and W has a lot of policy freedom to take the necessary steps. And if the college requires learning the language, then this is accompanied by a course offer. That's right, isn't it? That's what I'm asking the Secretary of State. However, if you do not have an exemption, you will be faced with a test, a monitoring within fixed deadlines and a reduction in the benefit imposed by this law. What is not self-evident about this duty is the provision of a course or other form of training. The latter, in particular, makes this difference in treatment a great deal and cannot be justified. The group of indigenous illiterates and very low-literate people is treated differently than the immigrant illiterates or low-literate people, while for both groups there is also a general interest that a job seeker has the right knowledge of the Dutch language. If the government obliges people to learn a language, it is simply a matter of good governance and proportionality that they are also enabled to do so. The government does not want to give municipalities an extra budget to make this course offer possible. That is why the government likes to play down the need for a good language course. After all, you can also learn Dutch with a language buddy or via the internet. However, such reasoning does not reflect the function and value of a professional course with a qualified teacher. Self-study or help from a volunteer is wonderful to support such a course, but is self-sufficient, especially when you are talking about illiterate people. The budgets made available by the government to refugees to learn the language by the Law of Integration show that this Ministry also recognises this. This budget for professional language courses amounts to €10,000 for non-lingual illiterates. It is therefore not necessarily non-binding to require beneficiaries to have the language level 1F within a certain period of time. Apart from the fact that language partner projects only serve to support a course, it is also quite easy to shift responsibility as a government to volunteers. Is the Secretary of State aware that these voluntary organisations sometimes disappear or have a very difficult time keeping their heads above water due to substantial cuts? Moreover, this is not easily accessible everywhere in the Netherlands. Suppose, you're an illiterate from South Korea and you live in Koedijk or Barger-Compascuum..................................................................................................................................................... Can a beneficiary require such an offer if he needs it in order to master the required language skills? And if it turns out that the funds from the participation budget are insufficient to provide these people with an offer, does the Secretary of State see a duty for the Empire to enable municipalities to do so? I asked in the written round for examples in which welfare recipients were previously imposed on an activity without any offer or financial compensation. The Secretary of State has not answered this question. That is understandable, because I have not been able to find an example. We are seeing an increasing increase in the burden of assistance, but the participation budget from which the fulfilment of these obligations can be compensated is increasingly shrinking. The assistance is a safety net. If you set conditions for receiving a benefit, you should at least enable the beneficiary to meet these conditions. It's gotta be doable. The absence of a guarantee in this respect is, in fact, the greatest objection to this bill for our group. It makes the measure disproportionate and therefore also undermines the justification for the distinction that it makes. This raises legal problems, especially within the framework of Union law. If the government wants to withhold assistance from a Union citizen because he has not learned the Dutch language while he has not been able to do so, there will be unjustified discrimination and disproportionateness more quickly than when a course offer has been made. The same applies to long-term residents who should be treated in the same way as Dutch. In the reply, the State Secretary explained that the Integration Act and the current legislative proposal do not overlap, as steps taken under the Integration Act are considered as efforts under this bill. But can the sanctions overlap? The Integration Act makes it possible to fine someone in case of insufficient progress. In addition to a fine on account of insufficient progress, can a person be faced with a reduction in the benefit? What is the justification in such a situation for double punishment? In short, my group is not at all convinced of the need for this legislative proposal. Our impression is that the negative effects and the feasibility are not sufficiently thought out. It concerns a group of beneficiaries of assistance who have not so far imposed measures on municipalities, probably for good reasons. This proposal is based on the need for symbolism and does not take both local authorities and welfare recipients seriously. This cabinet obviously has a very different view of decentralisation than we do. Our idea of decentralising is to really lay down responsibility and policy freedom with the drivers closest to the citizens, because they can do the best that tailor-made work to achieve the participation objective, without imposed formats, tests and sanctions. But this cabinet constantly translates decentralisation as transferring tasks and obligations. With the accumulation of obligation on obligation, the cabinet closes all the room for municipalities, so that they cannot assume their responsibilities. Why can't the Secretary of State stop interfering? Why doesn't she trust city leaders? This bill is also far too one-sided. It restricts municipal policy freedom in terms of duties for people, but then leaves all the freedom to municipalities to assess and assess language skills, including in terms of proportionality and guarantees for citizens. My group does not think that this is consistent and, above all, unfair to those citizens. If the Empire forces municipalities to impose a measure, then the same Empire must also ensure that this is accompanied by the necessary support by obliging municipalities to do so, but also by making the necessary resources available to them. The Secretary of State may point to the ever-slowing participation budget, but municipalities have made it clear that this is not enough to keep it accompanied by a course offer. We are talking about a hole of EUR 140 million. We would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. My group is also concerned about the consequences and the poverty that people can end up in. This kind of concern is waving away the Secretary of State with the prediction that it will almost never come to the point that people lose their benefits. That seems rather absurd to our group. If that's almost never gonna happen, is there a problem? Is there a need for these extra instruments? Do all these tests and pathways need to be developed only to radiate some kind of firmness? And if it can lead to loss of benefits, what do we do with these people? People fall out of a safety net, get into debt, lose their homes, knock on social services and so on. What are the social and financial costs of this bill and what are the benefits? For the expected outflow of 400 people to work, I haven't seen any support. Does it really matter to the government whether they are pouring out to work or out to the margin? In short, this bill breathes indifference about these questions and, in fact, about the integration of people. It is not aimed at stimulating or supporting, but at forcing and excluding, based on distrust. Our group does not feel at home in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u4	I would like to ask Mrs Strik another question. My questions have not been fully answered or, rather, not at all. Suppose the Secretary of State would comply with all GroenLinks' demands. Is the remaining bill still in breach of the UN Convention against Racial Discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u5	Yes. I have indicated that there is a difference in treatment of people who are low-lettered, who do not reach the 1F level. Those who have completed Dutch school education do not have to take a test and therefore do not end up in the process of progress checks and a possible reduction in benefits, while those who have not followed Dutch school education may end up in it. In doing so, you treat people who have spent their childhood elsewhere other than those who have completed their education here, while the goal is for everyone to learn Dutch. The justification then no longer rhymes with the purpose of the bill. It makes it even worse if there is no course offer, but the difference remains unjustified. Then you would have to test everyone, including the people who have been trained in the Netherlands, because after all there are many illiterates or low-age people among them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u6	May I once again ask Mrs Strik in order to better understand the position of GroenLinks? The United States are a racially very mixed company. Suppose the United States demands that you speak English as an immigrant. Does Mrs Strik still insist that this is contrary to the Convention against Racial Discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u7	I'm not talking about another country. I am not talking about the duty to speak a language. I am talking about the fact that there is a difference here with a course, with a test and with the sanction reduction of a benefit for groups of people who have not received school education in the Netherlands. The point is that everyone can learn Dutch. That's fine. We can now also regulate in the Participation Act that people are obliged to learn the Dutch language, so that they can better integrate into the labour market. We do not need this bill for that at all. You put people who have been trained elsewhere in their youth on a different path than those who have been here at school. That is our main objection to unequal treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u8	Mrs Strik herself says that if all the requirements of GroenLinks are met, the bill still violates the UN Convention against Racial Discrimination. So I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u9	I can try again to explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u10	Short!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u11	Apart from the course offer, it would help if everyone were given such a duty. The point is that it forces municipalities to distinguish between those who have received school education outside the Netherlands and those who have received school education, with far-reaching consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u12	Mr. Chairman. On 24 June last year this Chamber was allowed to discuss the Participation Act and the Measures Act Work and Assistance. This WWB has now become part of the Participation Act. I will not repeat my group's fundamental criticism of this. I will save it for the debate on the Quotum Act, which will take place shortly, in two weeks' time. However, the comments made at the time concerning the WWB are relevant as a final part of that participation operation. The extensive target group of disabled workers, including WWB file, was thus placed under a reinforced regime with the ultimate objective of increasing the activating character of the conditions. I noted that the full focus was on assistance and not on work. That is not surprising where austerity is the only approach of this cabinet. In doing so, the implementation has been conveniently transferred to the municipalities in a straitjacket of obligations in the field of compensation, labour obligations and sanctions policy. The main point was also noted that it was doubtful that an understatement of whether the participation targets could be achieved in themselves, given the diversity of target groups, the limited tools, the scope for municipalities, the dependence of institutional changes on the labour market and the significantly lower budgets. The conceptual underpinning of the whole proved to be thin and based on now abandoned jargon from the worn-out briefcase of exchangeable cretology about a participating society. The urgency of the problem has not diminished. Our country is facing a growing group of welfare dependents of over 426,000 by now. In my group's view, this underlines the need for a clear and enforceable policy that actually creates work. It is not a question of cold-cleaning large groups at the bottom of the labour market by way of definition and tightening up while at the same time not offering them any prospects for employment. I'm not talking about shoveling the Secretary of State's vegetable garden. Against this background, this legislative proposal needs to be assessed. The crucial question is therefore whether this legislative proposal really solves the language gap and improves access to the labour market. What it really contributes to activation is the core question. No one will in principle deny the responsibility of the citizen to do what is possible and necessary. And no one will fight that as many people as possible should have the opportunity to participate productively and meaningfully in the labour market, and that adequate activation should reduce the distance from the labour market. The self-responsibility and self-interest of those concerned must be explicitly endorsed. Where research by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau shows that one in three welfare workers (about 150 000) do not get a job because they do not speak Dutch or hardly speak Dutch, the need for some language skills is evident in order to have a chance at work at all. De facto, the WWB has been in existence for a longer period of time as of 1 January 2015, the requirement that every beneficiary should do everything possible in the context of compulsory reintegration efforts, as well as the sufficient mastery of the Dutch language. This skill is self-evident, not only for access to the labour market, but also for participation in wider social movement and, in particular, integration into Dutch society. For decades successive governments have carefully ignored the obvious need to do so. Voluntaryity and non-committalism were too much at the forefront. And what has been left behind for decades must now certainly be corrected afterwards. Despite the fact that the obligation of language control already exists, this cabinet is apparently of the opinion that I quote "this particular interest is not sufficiently reflected in the relevant Article 18 of the Participation Act' and that the language requirement should once again be explicitly required by law in this separate law. Apparently, it is in the background that the municipalities are explicitly placed in the role of implementing body and have to comply with the Hague guidelines. The confidence in the good performers is far from great. Can the Secretary of State clarify exactly what the further considerations have been in order to impose an existing requirement? What changed suddenly? For the reasons I have just mentioned, my group supports the need for sufficient language control and, therefore, the explicit inclusion of such a requirement. But then that explicit tightening of the language requirement must be such that it is successfully worked out, and an urgent interest is not destroyed by a blurry design that carries all the risk of failure, and finally threatens to sink into a salutary bureaucracy of possible decentralised arbitrariness. That's putting the horse behind the cart. In this context, I would like to take a look back at the history of my group, reminding us that in the most recent government agreement of 2012, it was already bravely stated that (literally) "who does not master the Dutch language, does not receive welfare benefits," under the further remark that this principle is again quoted as "consequentially applied." It can now be concluded that the translation of this strict starting point into the present legislative amendment has in any case become a lot more nuanced, not to say, significantly weakened. For example, this legislative proposal has created several openings which, in fact, call into question this so stringently formulated principle in the coalition agreement. This raises the question of what exactly is added value. Can the Secretary of State explain this discrepancy further? My group points out the following specific points. It is noteworthy that instead of a result obligation in accordance with the coalition agreement, it is now merely an obligation on the part of those concerned; at least, I quote, "the government expects aid recipients to make an effort to improve their mastery of the Dutch language." The same government also expects that a reduction in the benefit will only be "sporadic'. Apparently, this cabinet has high expectations of such weak wordings. What are these expectations based on? And why would things be different now? During the debate in the House of Representatives, this Secretary of State does a little bit more by saying that I quote: "I want to make it quite clear that it is not a matter for people to be obliged to achieve a certain result, as was originally stated in other legislative proposals." Yeah, that's only gonna increase the noise. Does this Secretary of State withdraw from the coalition agreement even further than this bill already does? Subsequently, only in the case of the culpable failure to act, any reduction will be decided upon, and then even after the College takes action on the basis of individual circumstances (literally: "special circumstances leading to urgent reasons'). Policy freedom seems to be unlimited in this area alone. Moreover, it is reinforced by the provision in Article 18 (6)a, which states that there will be no discount when the person concerned "mets the progress that can be expected of him"; a cryptic, multi-interpretable wording that a little college probably knows or doesn't know what to do with. The same freedom of policy also exists with regard to the choice of the language test to be taken. Various options are open, including for learning the language from self-study through language buddies to classroom education; nothing is great. After all, it's about customization. Also as regards the costs, which can and are likely to be charged to the municipality according to the college's views, are also charged to the participation budget. My group is wondering why the costs are not being borne by those involved. That is where the primary importance lies and this prevents too non-binding participation, as experience has shown in the past. In this context, it is remarkable that this cabinet has recently decided to release 54 million for dealing with language delays. As an indication, municipalities should offer language lessons. Can the Secretary of State state state state its connection to this bill? Is there any policy coordination here? It is not for nothing that municipalities are concerned about uniformity and quality. The incantation that an AMvB will clearly guarantee these aspects seems to be the well-known nose, all the more so where there is no intention to submit the AMvB to the two Chambers. My question is, why not? The AMvB applies only to the language test sec. In any case, it may be concluded that as regards the further assessment of the effort obligation and the possible culpability, the likelihood of subjectivity or subjectivity. arbitrariness is very large. The power lies explicitly with the College and further rules are not provided for in this respect. I do not want to dwell on the diversity of language learning methods and the nature of the tests. The relatively low reference language level of 1F (to be qualified as low-lettered) also raises the question whether this contributes at all to gaining access to the labour market. If this is not the case, the soil is about to sink under this proposal. I'm gonna finish in first installment. My group has no choice but to conclude that this bill demonstrates the ambivalence of the two coalition parties well. It has become a product in which the separation of spirits has become visible in this cabinet. As Faust pointed out, two souls living in one breast do not go together, and that leads to a watery and difficult compromise in this case. One wants to turn left and the other right. It has become an incompatible pattern that has been dragging on for too long. De facto, in spite of all the fine pretensions, the primary strict unambiguous wording of the coalition agreement has been abandoned, with the creation of a hybrid vehicle with a life-size risk that the target will disappear completely behind the horizon. In other words, by including all kinds of exceptions, further conditions and various degrees of freedom in municipalities, there is actually only a piece of verbal display. This law suffers from unnecessary regulation. The big question is whether the law has not become superfluous. In the main, my group would like to give a more fundamental question to the Secretary of State: is it not true that, on balance, this cabinet is expressing itself and also accepts that a large proportion of the welfare workers will simply never get to work? Isn't this a tissue for the bleeding? My group looks forward to the substantive response of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u13	Mr. Chairman. Language is a prerequisite for a meaningful social life. Man as a social animal must communicate with fellow species and language plays a key role. Language control is important both for the individual and for the society of all those who are part of it. To this end, effective language learning should be a high priority for all citizens. For newcomers who for whatever reason become part of our society, learning to master the Dutch language in words and writing is a prerequisite for life. Without language control, it is an illusion that someone can be a full part of that society. Without language control, it is an illusion to find work that can contribute to integration. Worse still, without language control, the risk is enormous that people hide behind huge satellite dishes that block the view of Dutch society, but which are the gateway to the political, anti-democratic, authoritarian and religious indoctrination that unfortunately characterizes so many countries from which many newcomers come. This creates a vicious circle that is not only extremely harmful to the individual, but also a potential threat to our society as a whole. In addition to political opinions and preferences, it is clear that the government has an unambiguous role to play in promoting the linguistic mastery of all those who reside in our territory in a very broad sense. Because it is not just a matter of the interest of society, but also of an individual interest, all the efforts that are required of each individual to acquire that language mastery must be demanded without any restraint. Anyone who does not cooperate should be held accountable. That's not paternalism, it's basic logic. Why is language so important? Language and national identity are inextricably linked. A people who are proud of their heritage is proud of their language. It is therefore up to the government to cherish and promote language learning as a linking factor in our society. Education in other languages, and thereby increasing the understanding of how languages are structured, also contributes to this objective. To what extent does the Dutch government succeed? Unfortunately, this is rather disappointing, if the current resistance of students and staff to the language faculties of our universities is a measure. It was not so long ago that Dutch people were praised for their language skills. Already in primary schools there were many optional programmes for teaching French and English and in secondary schools French, German and English were compulsory subjects, in addition to of course Dutch. Many Dutch people with secondary school education could thus express themselves with some difficulty in the languages of our neighbouring countries and learn what was written in those languages. Das war einmal. With the degradation of modern languages to electives, we have not served society. Knowledge of German and to an even greater extent of French has fallen to a questionable level. Our supposed knowledge of English has mainly led to self-examination, even to the extent that it is widely assumed that any university lecturer would be able to teach difficult and abstract scientific concepts in perfect English to students with limited knowledge of that language. Stonecoal English and sloppy thinking due to sloppy language are the predictable result. In the Netherlands, pride of its own identity of government is not or hardly stimulated. Correct use of one's own language is all too easily sacrificed to gibberish in crippled English. Raising up for Dutch interests that do not directly make money does not seem to be a priority of this government. Outselling of national interests is the order of the day and there is especially gloom when it comes to promoting Dutch culture and language. Where is the broad vision of this government when it comes to our own culture, our own language and our own identity? Or have we become little more than a toy of international economic developments? Is everything for sale to the most-offering? It is always good to go back to the basic principles before we talk about the details of a legislative proposal: what is the real purpose and why? In this respect, it becomes immediately irrelevant how things were arranged in the past, but a new legislative proposal offers a unique opportunity to ask you again what we really want with each other without in the forefront of the usually rather legal-colored burden of the past. That is the light in which I want to review and assess the legislative proposal before us today. What is it about, why is it important and to what extent is it part of a more consistent policy? We'll see. The legislative proposal aims to subject a sub-group of people who do not have sufficient control of the Dutch language to a language requirement and, if necessary, to meet with financial reprisals. This sub-group is made up of people receiving welfare benefits. Of course, this immediately leads to the question of whether the language control of all other groups in our society is of such a level that no measures, whether legal or not, are necessary. Looking at the group of welfare recipients in isolation, without placing the problem of poor language management in a much wider context, my group is concerned. The problem of language control is, of course, also raised outside the circle of recipients of assistance. I urge the Secretary of State to address this issue in detail. What is the status of policy consistency? Let's look at the bill in more detail. Firstly, the proposal restricts the policy freedom of municipalities to set their own rules for reducing assistance. This is a good thing in itself, because standardisation in these matters is the only way to ensure equal treatment in equal cases. However, municipalities, secondly, have a great freedom to assess whether or not there is sufficient commitment to language control and whether or not there is culpable behaviour. This, in turn, runs counter to the objective of uniformity. Also the freedom of municipalities to independently assess any evidence of sufficient control of the Dutch language seems to be a recipe for fraud sensitivity. Thirdly, the proposal provides for an effort obligation, not a result obligation. That's odd. After all, a commitment that does not produce results is pointless and a waste of everyone's time and money. Fourthly, the government intends to regulate the implementation of the bill through a General Measure of Governance, an AMvB, without the intention to submit it to the two Chambers. The remarkable AMvB addiction of this government with the aim of regulating all kinds of matters outside the parliament cannot count on the agreement of my group. Fifthly, the wording of the requirements in the legislative proposal is extremely vague, which will lead to large differences of interpretation and will create a legal minefield. The government walks over this very lightly. Let me come to a conclusion in the first term. Promoting language control among all those who reside more or less permanently in the Netherlands deserves full support. The submission of a legislative proposal that only looks at the limited group of welfare recipients without placing the case in a much broader context suggests that the government is playing down the problem of insufficient language management and only looking at the limited economic effects. The present bill seems to be a weak and sweet broth of what is actually needed. My group is therefore concerned about the whole situation. I would like to hear the response of the Secretary of State to the various points I have raised. Although, on its own, increasing language control, even for a very limited group, is a meaningful objective, the legislative proposal has too many weaknesses to be in favour of it. These are the points on which the debate should be taking place today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u14	Mr. Chairman. Let me also stress, on behalf of my group, that it is extremely useful to learn the Dutch language before joining the labour market. In order to promote this control, one of the accession requirements for assistance is one of the requirements for language management, according to the legislative proposal. $5 million is going to be invested by the government. This amount is not intended for courses but for the implementation costs incurred by the municipalities. The expected savings are 5 million less in annual assistance payments. In short, we're even. In the reply, the government mentions the cautious figure of 400 more people who will be released from the assistance each year. Unfortunately, the justification in the bill of 5 million in costs and of the 400 expected streamers lacks my group's need. We have a number of questions about the need for the bill and about its implementation. First of all, we don't know any numbers. In January 2014, 363.000 welfare benefits were provided. That number had increased to 378,000 in July 2014, but has declined since then. The government knows how many low-skilled people the Netherlands has, namely 1.3 million, but does not know how large the group of welfare recipients are who do not have sufficient knowledge of the Dutch language. To clarify the question, it must be those who have not been in Dutch for eight years, who have not been in Dutch for eight years, who have not been settled and who cannot otherwise prove that they have mastered the Dutch language. The government doesn't know. But, if the government doesn't know a number, who is this bill for? Are no data available to the municipalities? Why were they asked? How can the additional implementation costs be calculated at 5 million? Secondly, the VNG expects major problems in its implementation, in short because language management at the 1F level required by the legislative proposal is not important for all professions, because municipalities are not equipped to take a language test and because it makes implementation difficult. Since this bill concerns all municipalities, it would have been perfectly reasonable to ask the VNG for an execution test. On the basis of the Integrated Weighting Framework, the request for an execution test is self-evident, if not prescribed. However, the VNG has not been involved in the preparation of this bill. The Secretary of State didn't think this was necessary. The VNG then put its position in a position paper. My group has asked the Secretary of State why that execution test has not been requested. The answer was: similar proposals were discussed with the Municipal Executive Panel (UP). I refer to page 10 of the reply. This, of course, leads to the follow-up question: why did the Secretary of State choose the Implementation Panel and not the VNG? What does the Implementation Panel have that the VNG doesn't have? Was the VNG too critical? Didn't that fit in with the Secretary of State's plans? Was the Secretary of State in a hurry? What similar proposals has the Secretary of State discussed with the Implementation Panel? And what does that mean? Can the Secretary of State share with the Chamber the insights that emerged from the discussion with the Implementing Panel? Thirdly, the bill is not necessary. I have looked at the law that was dealt with in this Chamber in June 2014, the Law Measures Work and Assistance Act. It now falls within the Participation Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2015. Moreover, the VNG was also critical in the preparation of that law because it considers that guidance to work from the assistance is tailor-made. Customisation is already in the legal provision, Article 18 (4) that the beneficiary must make an effort to obtain knowledge and skills for accepting generally accepted work. Of course, this includes the mastery of the Dutch language. That can be determined individually for everyone. This was also mentioned in the House of Representatives when this bill was discussed, but the government does not want to do so. The government insists on this separate language law. Why? Can the Secretary of State convince my group of the need to do so? Is it a difference in perseverance? The Law on Measures Work and Assistance provides that the requirements and sanctions must be laid down in a municipal regulation. In the language law, the power to intervene is conferred directly on the college. There is no need for a regulation. Is it a difference in sanctions? The WWB Act allows only temporary discounts. The language law is stricter and may eventually lead to a 100% discount for an indefinite period. The WWB Act had a clear budgetary objective. A tighter focus on the obligations of the beneficiary would increase the flow of assistance recipients. The explanatory memorandum to this bill does not contain the word "budgetary." The government is therefore not concerned with achieving budgetary results on the reduction of the benefit if the beneficiaries ultimately do not meet the requirements of the language test. It is about saving 5 million on assistance by getting more people to work. It's the recurring mantra in the pieces. Legislation is usually based on expectations or wishful thinking. This bill is a good example of that. With just as much expectation or wishful thinking it can be written that a saving of 5 million can also be delivered with the WWB Act measures. That will be an additional saving. It could be any amount, by the way, because we don't know. Why does the Secretary of State think this law is going to work? The interested party will have to make an effort to learn Dutch. If he does not do so or does not do so, a reduction in the benefit may follow. But how will the college encourage the beneficiary to learn the language? How will the college test the language claims? Policy freedom for municipalities in the implementation of the Participation Act is paramount, but the College will still have to supervise it. Can the government of municipalities expect additional efforts in addition to the much decentralised tasks within the social domain last year? The VNG is extremely critical of it. The introduction of the language requirement costs considerable additional resources and there are no such resources. The already very low participation budget will not be able to be used for this. The municipalities must already start working on the measures of the Work and Assistance Act, the passing of the WSW obligations and the re-approval of Wajangers in the assistance. The financial risk of municipalities will only increase. The UNG also warns against an increase in appeals and appeals procedures. How will language level 1F be mastered? Standard keys should be developed. There aren't any. What my group is most concerned about is that, with the 5 million different language and language testing agencies which are mandated by the College to do so, the tests will be taken out of the ground like mushrooms. Let us hope that this does not lead to waste and arbitrariness. My group has doubts about this. One final question is: when does the Secretary of State intend to bring the law into force? Are municipalities equipped with their multitude of decentralised tasks in the short term? And is there sufficient offer of language courses? There are also serious doubts about this. I'm rounding up. A job seeker in the Netherlands will have to master the Dutch language insofar as it is important for the work to be accepted. The question is whether this should be organised in this way. My group is not yet convinced, but you will have understood that by now. However, we await with great interest the answers of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u15	Mr. Chairman. The members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have noted with appreciation the Government's response to the questions raised by this Chamber. With regard to the implementation, the application of this legislation by the colleges of B and W, we have taken note of the Secretary of State's intention to regulate this at AMvB. That does not remove the concerns of our group. All the more concerns, now that it is not clear when this law will come into force. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats are wondering what time the Secretary of State is aiming for and what the preparations are for actually achieving that moment. It is desirable that the law enters into force on 1 July, so that there is sufficient clarity for municipalities. Previously, the Secretary of State has already indicated that possible date. Can the Commission confirm this date of introduction? Is it seeking, if necessary, an emergency opinion by the Council of State? We should like to know what the Secretary of State's intentions are in this respect. It is noteworthy that the answer to the questions asked shows that a large number of compatriots do not have sufficient knowledge of the Dutch language. Then I mean that they do not meet the minimum reference level 1F. In practical terms, this means that in the Netherlands we have a group of illiterates of 250,000 people. They cannot therefore read and write at all. In addition, about 300,000 fellow citizens are still very low-lettered. So 550,000 fellow citizens in our country do not reach the minimum reference level 1F. In the same age group, from 16 to 65 years old, we have another around 1 million people, who are low-literate but do not go beyond the lowest reference level. These figures together indicate that more than 15% of our residents in the age group between 16 and 65 years are low-literate or illiterate. My colleagues in my group and I believe that this is an unacceptablely high percentage. It is difficult for these fellow citizens in our society to participate in that society, to influence that society, to ask for their opinion and to be informed of practices, behaviours and views, but also difficult to contribute to influencing that society by engaging in discussion and letting that society know of its own views, feelings and thoughts. This importance of reintegration is evident and is extensively facilitated and dealt with in the Participation Act. The legislative proposal currently under discussion specifically stresses the importance of good language skills for participation in the labour market. This is desirable because this importance for participation in the labour market is not reflected in the WWB. The sufficient mastery of the Dutch language is essential to get a perspective on the labour market from the point of view of assistance. For people who do not or do not master the Dutch language enough, the labour market will be difficult to access and poorly enter. It can also be seen that the carrying out of simple work requires thorough knowledge of the Dutch language, not only in order to understand which work needs to be carried out correctly. The normal and continuous collective contacts also call for mastery of the Dutch language. Those who cannot make themselves understood by colleagues are also unable to acquire an equal position in the company, let alone to develop and participate in training processes. In fact, acceptance of too little language skills provides a breeding ground for dependence and discontent. The VVD Group is therefore convinced that sufficient mastery of the Dutch language is essential in order to acquire a position in the Dutch labour market, to maintain that position and then to take a follow-up step through training. With this law, stakeholders know what to do in terms of increasing language skills and making use of the potential facilities, and municipalities are given additional tools and discretion to encourage fellow citizens in this interest. In order to be able to formulate and then achieve the objectives in this area in a clear and unambiguous manner, municipalities need to understand the concrete figures on the number of recipients of assistance who do not have sufficient knowledge of the Dutch language. Are these figures already available for each municipality? Are the national figures known to the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u16	Mr Beckers just indicated that this legislative proposal will give municipalities more discretion. I have read the bill quite differently, in such a way that municipalities are given less discretion. After all, this law forces them to start a certain route. I know Mr Beckers' party as a party that is very much in favour of deregulation, for as little unnecessary rules as possible. How does Mr Beckers appreciate this bill, which imposes additional rules on municipalities, when they already have all these instruments and rules to achieve this goal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u17	Municipalities have powers, but this is specifically about encouraging a group that we believe can join the labour market with skills. Municipalities can therefore find additional facilities to encourage people to do so within their own financial area, which is created by outflow from the assistance. To this end, the municipalities have the freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u18	That's the freedom they already have.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u19	Mrs. Strik, has Mr. Beckers been spoken? That seems to be the case. Go ahead, Mrs. Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u20	Mr Beckers says that they are getting extra money because of the outflow of this bill, but it is expected that this bill will result in some 400,000 people pouring out. That doesn't mean extra money. That means they have to find extra money to offer people that tools. I do not see where municipalities are now given more discretion as a result of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u21	First of all, they will be given more financial space thanks to the outflow from the assistance. The space created can be used to give people a further incentive to learn the language better. These incentives are also present in the contacts between the municipalities and the persons concerned, as both have an interest. The municipality has a strong interest in ensuring that the citizen develops well and thus does not overburden the assistance and the person concerned has the interest of developing himself well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u22	Mrs. Strik, you may interrupt twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u23	I have one last question. Mr Beckers does not yet explain the added value of this bill. Municipalities can call people for a conversation right now. They can already offer courses. As of 1 January, the WWB again introduced a measure allowing municipalities to impose an obligation on people to become more qualified for the labour market. What's with the extras that municipalities need to help people with language management?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u24	I'll try again. The objective of the Participation Act is to achieve integration. The overall package of integration involves becoming an independent or more independent person and more specifically in this area that allows you to work in the workplace. That's what this bill sees. That extra emphasis is an added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u25	I note "extra emphasis." That's the added value of this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u26	I did say a little more than "extra stress." I have talked about contacts between municipal officials and those involved and about encouraging people. I had arrived at a question that we would like to ask the Secretary of State about the figures. What objective has the government set in this regard? Can the Secretary of State now provide more information on this matter? Furthermore, the members of the VVD Group are asking what timetable the government intends to reduce these numbers. Another question, not to mention a concern, concerns the implementation of this law. The answer given by the Secretary of State to written questions shows that the College of B and W always takes a language test when the interested party is unable to provide the supporting documents requested. But what does this obligation mean if the person concerned is able to produce a document as referred to in Article 18b (c), while the discussions between the municipal officer and the interested party clearly and clearly show that the interested party is not sufficiently powerful in the Dutch language? In that case, may the official's own opinion play a role and may that judgment lead to the final conclusion of insufficient mastery of the Dutch language, with the obligation to take a language test? I'd like the Secretary of State's opinion on this. A further question concerns the supporting documents to be submitted. Can the Secretary of State state indicate what such evidence is required to comply with? By whom should these proofs of sufficient language skills be issued and what quality requirements should be laid down for the agencies issuing such certificates? What information should such statements contain? Should that course be completed with a language proficiency test and should that test be successfully completed, or is the statement merely a statement that the course has been followed? I would also like the Secretary of State's opinion on this. In the reply, the Secretary of State also writes that the test that the college takes must comply with the rules that will be laid down at AMvB. The present law and the AMvB therefore provide frameworks on the test and the valuation of that test. Is this AMvB going to clearly and unequivocally indicate what the test in question must comply with, the parts that need to be tested, the mode of tests, who is entitled to take that test and the qualification of the tester? Are the results to be achieved by the interested party sufficiently clearly included in that AMvB? What are the circumstances under which testing or not being carried out? In our opinion, there is a need for clear and unambiguous frameworks for the quality of the test to be taken, but also frameworks for an objective, unambiguous and uncontested assessment of the result, in such a way as to ensure the legal equality of welfare recipients in our country. Such that they are not dependent on whether or not to apply those frameworks, or on an application based on their own interpretation of employees in different municipalities. Can the Secretary of State confirm these views? And if the answer is yes, what is still the policy freedom of municipalities in this area? Does it go beyond the choice of the type of test and the relevant agency to take the test? Although the VVD Group believes that the freedom of policy given to municipalities in the implementation of the Participation Act is a correct starting point, it is nevertheless desirable to ensure uniformity and equality in general. This does not only play a role in the test, as outlined above, but also in the assessment of the effort obligation and personal circumstances. In the reply, the Government states that it is explicitly up to the College to determine whether there are urgent reasons and whether or not there is culpability in the event of insufficient effort. Furthermore, the government says: "The special circumstances that lead to urgent reasons may be in the public interest and the duty of care of the government in relation to individual circumstances and children in the family." Is this list intended to be exhaustive? This therefore means that there can only be urgent reasons if they arise from a social interest and/or the public duty of care. I'd like the Secretary of State's view on this. For example, the reply also describes personal circumstances which may play a role in assessing the culpability. What is the purpose of this list and why does the Secretary of State consider that these phenomena, such as learning problems, dyslexia, cognitive problems, health and medical problems, audio and visual limitations, can lead to non-disclaimability? Is it desirable that the Secretary of State should now give an opinion on this matter? Is this list intended to be exhaustive and to exclude other phenomena? But we are also wondering whether this statement makes any additional emphasis on a possible appeal to it. It is precisely here that, within the framework of this law, an individual assessment, a case-by-case assessment, as may be the case in practice, seems desirable. However, such an individual assessment of exceptions also needs to be limited. In the opinion of the Secretary of State, is it sufficiently present in this law? In our opinion, these concepts also require further clarification and clarification for the application of this law. If this is not done, our group believes that it is at the expense of the equality of fellow citizens, not only of fellow citizens in different municipalities, but also within the municipalities, if they are confronted with different evaluators. We therefore ask the Secretary of State to indicate what the government means by the terms mentioned in the terms mentioned in the context of non-disputability. We look forward to receiving the answers from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u27	Mr. Chairman. What is the problem with this bill? That is the key question for the SP Group in this debate today. The SP Group is not against new legislation in principle. If new legislation improves existing legislation or solves new problems, we will be happy to support it. We are therefore not fundamentally opposed to more regulation, although it is best to ask what kind of problem it actually solves in some regulations. I expect other groups as a general starting point to be in favour of this. From this point of view, in general terms, it is a task of this Chamber to assess, in addition to the quality of legislation, the usefulness and necessity of new legislation. The Court of First Instance can't do the right thing. to establish, but to prevent evil and thus to guard against the delusion of the day. This has been and has been our task since the democratic reform of our Parliament in 1848. There is no harm in repeating that just before the elections of the Provincial States, with which the new First Chamber will also be elected indirectly. We can carry out this clean task today, if we reject this bill as symbolic legislation produced by the delusion of the day. Though, delusion of the day? The proposal did not see the light until last year, but would have been better suited to the previous cabinet, Rutte I. For although I hardly see differences between Rutte I and II in the financial and economic field, there are indeed major differences of emphasis between Rutte I and II, particularly in the field of symbolic policy towards migrants. Both refugees and migrant workers, especially Muslims, had to endure the verbal violence of especially Rutte I. Especially verbally, because by focusing too much on the PVV, at least in the eyes of former VVD party leader Nijpels, Rutte I also made himself guilty of symbol legislation. There was a lot of hard bleat and little wool. However, the delusion of the day asked for it, as VVD, CDA, PVV and SGP apparently found at that time. A bill like this would not have been wrong under that Rutte I cabinet. It turns against non-Dutch-speaking immigrants with welfare benefits. The people affected by the proposal probably belong to both favourite groups of scapegoats: foreigners and welfare workers. "They are not victims, but perpetrators," you hear so-called common sense thinking, and: "Hold your hand at the expense of the hardworking Dutchman." The sanctions imposed nationally are certainly not soft. The benefit is reduced to 100%. That'll teach them. Nice right-wing rotten policy in which some people seem to lick their fingers off. It's stigmatizing symbolism. It will be up to me, but I don't understand what the PvdA narrow part of this coalition is getting into. Also of the other parties I had expected different after the failed tolerate experiment with the PVV. Nevertheless, the PvdA Group in the Lower House voted for this bill in a roll-call vote with the groups of the old right-wing coalition of VVD, CDA, PVV and SGP. So much for the political interpretation of my group. I would just like to focus on the content and come back to the question of what exactly is the problem of this legislative proposal. I would like to receive an answer from the Secretary of State on the basis of a few specific questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u28	I have tried to make it clear in my introduction that it may be possible for people who do not master the language to actually be helped if they learn to master, speak and write the language. If they are able to express themselves properly, they can have influence in the society they are part of. Does Mr Elzinga see this positive side of this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u29	No, I don't see that as a positive aspect of this bill. However, I agree with Mr Beckers' statement that it would be very good if people in welfare but also those who participate in our society in any way, try to acquire Dutch and if they can learn to speak, read and write Dutch as well. Mr Terpstra pointed out what the ESC said in the early 1980s, and what my party said in the 1980s and what we were not thanked for. It is an important fact that, if you want to participate in this society, it helps enormously if you speak Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u30	Isn't that what this law is helping with?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u31	No. I shall come back to that later in my speech. I think the problem with this law is that people have to do everything in their power to participate in the labour market. This must be done within the framework of the Participation Act. This law does not, in fact, add anything to that. If language is a barrier, people have to do everything they can to deal with that barrier. I note further, I think with the rest of this Chamber, that this law is mainly trying to underline the commitment that people already have. However, it is and will not be more than an effort obligation. As far as I am concerned, this is therefore unnecessary symbol legislation. I follow up my question as to what exactly is the problem with this law. It is therefore a question of the scale of the problem. Let me ask you some specific questions. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and the officials of the Ministry for their replies to this Chamber in the written preparation. It says: "The government does not have national figures on the number of people in the assistance that the Dutch language is not at reference level 1F because we have the power to do so." However, the Secretary of State states that this group consists of illiterate and low-literate people. Does the government have national figures on the size of the target population of people in the assistance qualifying under the proposed new Article 18b (2) WWB, i.e. the number of people who have not followed Dutch language education for eight years, cannot submit a diploma in integration as referred to in Article 7, second paragraph, part a of the Integration Act and cannot provide any other document showing that he or she would master the skills in the Dutch language? If the government is considering the size of this target group, can it estimate on which part of this group the qualification illiterate or low-literate applies? Does the Government have any indication as to what percentage of this latter category, belonging to the target group and meeting the criterion "Dutch language not empowered at reference level 1F', is the Dutch language not blameworthy? That is what we are talking about in the end. And what percentage of this category is currently unwilling to make an effort to acquire skills in the Dutch language in the short term, i.e. within one month? What are the calculations underlying the small 400 welfare benefits on which the savings received are based? What part of this saving is expected to be achieved through outflow, and what part by discounts? Is there an estimate of this outflow or discount in the Dutch municipalities? Does the government have any indication that some municipalities are facing the problems for which this proposal is intended to be a solution, while the current instruments provided by Article 18 (4) of the Act of Participation do not make sufficient efforts to guide this target group towards generally accepted work? If so, what indication does the government have? How many and which municipalities are not doing well in the eyes of the government at the moment? The government sees reason to apply a national standard on the mastery of the Dutch language in the Decentralised Act of Participation and national sanctions. Does the government think it's a national problem? And if so, are there not also national instruments to overcome this language shortage? Does the Secretary of State agree with the Group of the Party of European Socialists that in recent years various national instruments for integration, integration and language acquisition have been cut back or abandoned for other reasons? In response to the interruption, I have just said that the SP Group strongly supports the importance of the Dutch language for labour market opportunities, but also for social and social interaction and thus for integration and integration. But what new policy and what associated resources does the government actually offer to people who do not have sufficient knowledge of the Dutch language? In the explanatory statement, the Secretary of State gives a detailed account of the legal basis and non-fight with all kinds of international conventions. Is that because the government is well aware that the proposal may be vulnerable in that respect? Does the Secretary of State agree with the Group of the Party of European Socialists that an obligation to exercise sufficient control of the Dutch language, as originally stated in previous legislative proposals, would not in any case pass the test of criticism on the basis of our Constitution and several international treaties? Does the Secretary of State also agree with my group that it would be highly uncivilized and therefore undesirable for people to come to an income which is significantly below the social minimum, or even without income, solely on the basis of illiteracy or low literacy? From the written answer, my group points out very clearly that this legislative proposal contains an effort obligation: people must do their best to obtain skills in the Dutch language at minimum reference level 1F. In response to questions about the costs for municipalities, the Secretary of State also writes that municipalities are already using language, because this is essential for employment. In accordance with Article 18 (4) (f) of the current Act on Participation, the beneficiary already has the obligation to acquire and retain knowledge and skills necessary for the acquisition, acceptance or retention of generally accepted work, at the penalty of a reduction. The government therefore provides for very limited additional costs for the municipalities. At this point, I would like to receive a further confirmation from the Secretary of State. If so, I have to conclude that this bill does not add anything. Although I started with an opinion on and an explanation of the present bill, I look forward to the answer of the Secretary of State. Perhaps I am missing an essential element; that is what I am hearing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u32	In the beginning, Mr Elzinga said that the bill does not add anything, because the municipalities themselves can do it. He then raised many objections to parts of the bill. Do these objections also apply if the municipalities would do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u33	Mr Terpstra did not listen very carefully, but I would like to remove the misunderstanding. I said that the bill adds very little, because it is an effort obligation and not an obligation to achieve results. The commitment to achieving common, accepted labour already has people. The municipalities also have this commitment. If it doesn't add anything, this proposal will do nothing but stigmatize a group of people. I do not think this is appropriate in the policy of this cabinet. Apart from that, symbolism, and certainly stigmatizing symbolism, we should not be doing anything here anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u34	I agree with Mr Elzinga on that last point. However, some of his objections to this bill apparently no longer apply if the municipality does the same thing as the bill. I think that's a little weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u35	I have been particularly angry about the stigmatizing nature and the fact that this is a symbolism policy. In addition, I have asked a lot of questions, especially to clarify what is actually the problem that this law seeks to solve. That is not clear to me at all. I don't think there's a problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u36	Mr. Chairman. The present proposal for amendment of the Work and Assistance Act aims to clarify the obligations of the language management component, both for the Executive Officer, the College of B and WWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWW The aim of language management is to increase employment opportunities. It is clear that the members of the Labour Party support this objective. Work is important. Unfortunately, the effects of the crises make that clear again. Work is important for the economic independence of those involved. Moreover, having and doing work contributes to the feeling of self-esteem. And more generally, work contributes to a strong economy. Language control has a greater significance than merely contributing to the chances of employment, as previous speakers have pointed out. Knowledge of the Dutch language also contributes to the participation and participation in Dutch society in a broad sense. For the members of the PvdA group, this is all the more reason to support the aim of this amendment. This may support the objective of language control, but it is now time for the rules and the explanations of those rules to be assessed. Brightness and care are a prerequisite for us in this situation. They are people in a vulnerable and dependent position. They don't have a job and they don't even know the Dutch language. There's a misunderstanding that's how it happened. From this point of view, the members of the PvdA Group believe that the explanatory memorandum to the amendment leaves too much open. We are therefore pleased that the Secretary of State has made a clear effort in the written procedure to provide the clarity we consider necessary. Thank you for that. The present amendment proposal, the explanatory memorandum and the response offer, in combination, a lot of clarity about the approach: an approach in which the commitment to a learning path is central. This approach is supported by the members of the PvdA Group. We still have a number of questions to clarify or perhaps I should say that in order to avoid misunderstandings. First of all, it concerns the application of the term 'disclaimability' in Article 18 (6) (b). This is not least relevant because one in nine Dutch between the ages of 16 and 65 does not control the language at the required 1F level, partly due to dyslexia, learning problems and so on. It is true that this ratio will not be lower among the applicants for a benefit. In the reply, the Secretary of State states: "Of course, the language requirement cannot apply to people who do their best, but who will not be able to reach the required level." The question to the State Secretary is whether it can explain the meaning of this answer for the College of B and W in shaping paragraph 6b in implementation practice. How does the college determine that someone will not succeed, despite great efforts? How can it distinguish it from someone who does not make sufficient efforts? A further question concerns the personal circumstances of the interested party. Should the College also take into account the personal circumstances, such as the presence of children to be cared for and the living conditions of the person concerned, when applying the culpability laid down in paragraph 6b? I come in the manner of language acquisition. The Secretary of State states that the College, together with the interested party, can consider how best to increase language skills, given the individual circumstances. That may be a language course to be financed, but it doesn't have to be. The Secretary of State states that there is a need for tailor-made work here. The progress of the effort is monitored by the College, according to the reply. For this purpose, the members of the PvdA Group attach that the College is and remains accountable to the person concerned. Does the provision of customisation also mean that the College should be clear to the person concerned at the beginning of the improvement process on how it determines the progress of the effort? Does the Secretary of State consider it necessary for this to be clearly shared and recorded with the person concerned in advance? I come to the meaning of the Law of Integration. Most newcomers will have to deal with the Integration Act when it comes to language management. The Secretary of State states in the reply that a learning path under the Law can be regarded as an effort as referred to in the legislative proposal as it currently stands. Can the Secretary of State explain what this means? Is it up to the college to choose for itself? Does this mean that an applicant can face two separate routes and two separate sets of conditions? And what role does DUO play in this? I come to the imposition of a reduction in the benefit in accordance with Article 18 (1). The Secretary of State expects that a reduction in the benefit will not often be considered. A reduction in the benefit is only dealt with after a language test has been taken and if there is repeated and culpable refusal to make efforts to master the Dutch language. Article 8 (7) states that the College shall align the reduction of assistance with the circumstances of the interested party and his ability to obtain funds. The latter raises questions. We're talking about people without a job. Who's paying for this? And what if the person concerned can't? Can the Secretary of State explain that? The Secretary of State expects that a reduction in the benefit will not often be considered. That expectation is, of course, not substantiated by empirical experience. The members of the PvdA Group consider it important that this Empire should be collected as soon as possible with monitoring, so that, if necessary, the rules can be adapted to the purpose of the law, and the law is and remains in effect. Will the Secretary of State undertake to do so? We look forward to the Secretary of State's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u37	I would like to know whether Mr Van Zandbrink agrees with me that if the municipality imposes an obligation to take a language course, this includes the fact that the municipality makes an appropriate offer for such a language course?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u38	In my question to the Secretary of State, I said that, if it does so, the municipality will agree with the person concerned on how this language improvement will take shape and how progress will be measured. Those two things have to be balanced. An expensive course will require greater progress than a less expensive course, or acquiring language in a different way. That's essential. It is essential that the arrangements are clear to those concerned at the beginning of the journey.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u39	Let me put it a little more precisely. Suppose a municipality finds that a person's knowledge is so inadequate that he or she has to take a course, do you agree with me that a municipality should then make an offer for a course? I am thinking of a fee for that course or a course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u40	Mrs. Strik assumes that the municipality imposes a course. That assumption is not supported by the present proposal. It says that the municipality can impose an effort obligation on the person concerned to improve language management. You can do that with a course, but you can do it otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u41	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u42	I'm talking about a situation where a language level is so inadequate that you don't get there with Language buddies. Suppose the municipality finds out. Do you agree with me that the municipality should make an offer in such a situation, where it is obvious that there should be a course?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u43	I can imagine that, depending on the individual circumstances, the municipality makes such a choice. This bill leaves that freedom to the municipalities. That seems to me to be a good thing, because the municipality is about much more things, for example care. I think it is very good that the municipality should agree to this with the person concerned if this is the case. Often there is a combination with a number of other things. Part of those appointments could be a financial arrangement. It is possible, but it is primarily the freedom of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u44	My conclusion is that the PvdA agrees that it is part of the municipality's policy freedom to oblige someone to take a course that he himself has to pay for, from the assistance. That's what I'm concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u45	The obligation and progress must be made appropriate for the individual. This is indeed part of the policy freedom of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-7.u46	Thank you. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
