ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-15.u1	I warmly welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations among us, as do all those who are in the public gallery and those who are otherwise following us. I give the floor to the first speaker, Mr Taverne. Speaking time shall be two minutes, including the submission of any motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-15.u2	Mr. Chairman. On 28 October, we spoke with the Minister for the Interior in a general discussion on the revision of the European Act of Election, containing all kinds of rules, guidelines and proposals on how the elections to the Dutch Members of the European Parliament should be organised in the Netherlands. This led to many questions and a very critical attitude of a large part of this Chamber. The situation is as follows. The proposal has now been adopted by the Commission in the European Parliament. Probably this week but at least this year it will be voted on. In order to prevent the Chamber from being passed somewhere in the process in any way and, before the government decides on it, not being given the opportunity to find something of it and possibly stop it, I propose the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in 2015 the European Parliament shall vote on a proposal to amend the Act concerning the election of Members of the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage;]] [[noting that this proposal will then be discussed in the Council of the EU;]] [[noting that this is a special legislative procedure;]] [[Whereas this proposal has not yet been submitted to the Council for its opinion and the need for substantive parliamentary consideration;]] [[Considering the particular importance of this proposal for the legitimacy of Dutch elections;]] [[calls on the Government not to agree to the European Election Act on Council before the decision on the matter has been submitted to the House of Representatives for express approval,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Taverne, Mr Van Toorenburg, Mr Van Raak, Mr Bishop, Mr Van Vliet and Mr Segers.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1538]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-15.u3	Mr. Chairman. The European Parliament wants to organise the elections in the Netherlands. It concerns the election of 26 Dutch Members to the European Parliament. To this end, the European Parliament has come up with all kinds of foolish ideas. We should re-enter voting machines after we have abolished them precisely because they are not safe. We should set an electoral threshold, which we do not want at all. The same applies to voting on Sundays and voting by computer; the latter is not safe either. We should lower the electoral age, and we should turn men and women into electoral lists. Some plans make you feel a little bit more, but most of them are insane. What is particularly insane is that Europe is going to interfere with our elections. That is why, together with a number of colleagues, I have wholeheartedly signed the motion that Mr Taverne has just tabled. In the debate we had, it was very clear that a majority of the House of Representatives is already saying: we do not want Europe to organise our elections, we do so ourselves; democracy is ours and not Brussels's. That is a clear signal to the Minister, but also to Brussels. It must finally end the grabbing of powers from Brussels and the increasingly taking on all kinds of things that belong to our democracy. I think this is a very clear signal. The Chamber says the government can't do anything without its consent. The Chamber has already indicated that it does not want any interference from Brussels. From Brussels, from the European Parliament there may be a discussion. We look forward to it with great interest, but I can also conclude that this proposal will never be adopted in this Chamber, whatever the outcome of that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-15.u4	I see that the other Members who have signed up for this VAO do not need to speak. From the Minister's non-verbal communication, I note that he does not need a suspension and can immediately begin his response. I am therefore happy to give the floor to the representative of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-15.u5	Mr. Chairman. The motion now before us is, in a way, a curiosity. It is, after all, a matter of deciding on a proposal which does not yet exist. If I am properly informed, the European Parliament will vote on a proposal tomorrow. That includes the 30 amendments that have been tabled. Nevertheless, I read the motion in support of policy. In fact, I could say as a support for the law. The European Treaty, which has the force of law in the Netherlands, involves the following procedure. If the European Parliament has made a proposal, it will go to 28 governments. All these governments are considering their concept input, which is then shared with the local parliament. That is in the Netherlands with the Dutch Parliament. There will then be a debate on the Dutch Government's commitment to the negotiations with the European Parliament on the proposals. As has already been said, we do not yet know the proposal in this case. Thereafter, the 28 governments will probably reach agreement with the European Parliament on a proposal. That proposal then goes to the Second and First Chambers, which decide whether or not to accept it. So there is not one moment when such a proposal is submitted to the Second and First Chambers; there are two times when that happens. This motion therefore supports what is the result of Dutch law in any case. I see no objection whatsoever. I'd like to leave that to the Chamber. Perhaps I can afford to make a small comment on that. I have some hesitation, because there are parts in the law that are not supported by motion. I hope that the Chamber will find it as valuable as the parts that are supported by motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-15.u6	It will be voted on after it has been voted on in Europe. In that sense, the novelty is less great. That's not so bad. There will be a vote tomorrow. I give the floor to Mr Taverne for a clarification question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-15.u7	The Minister is aware that there is indeed a proposal adopted in committee in the European Parliament. It is true that the European Parliament as a whole still has to vote on this, but there is a proposal. The need for this motion is perhaps also supported by the fact that the Minister described the national parliaments as 'the local parliaments' vis-à-vis the European Parliament. So I think this is definitely a timely motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-15.u8	I don't think that was another question. I would like to make it clear that there are still 30 amendments and that it is not yet clear what the proposal which will be sent to the Netherlands will look like.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-15.u9	Of course, there is also a more fundamental side. If we elect 26 people in the European Parliament, then whose are the elections? Do these people represent the Netherlands, the Dutch, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-15.u10	I am happy to answer that question in principle. They represent European citizens. This follows from the Maastricht Treaty. As the President does not necessarily represent the VVD voters, but the citizens of the Netherlands, the European Parliament represents the citizens of Europe. Under Article 223 of the Treaty on European Union, the European Parliament is also entitled to amend the Act in this respect. That does not mean that the countries have to share that. There is an obligation of consent, at least the individual Member States have a right of veto with regard to the amendment of the Treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-15.u11	The discussion is not just about whether you are for or against voting machines, whether you are for or against electoral thresholds or for or against votes on Sundays or for or against all the other things that are being proposed. The debate we had was much more fundamental and concerned the question of who determines the organisation of these elections. Is that Europe or are we doing so ourselves? I had a serious feeling that a majority in this Chamber would say that we are organising these elections. Whatever proposal comes from Brussels, the point of principle is that we are discussing it. Is that also the government's position or is the school's government that Europe should decide how we organise our democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-15.u12	I want to be very precise about that. When it comes to the scope of the Treaty, it is not a question of a particular school and it does not matter what my view as Minister of the Interior is. After all, pacta sunt servanda: we are committed to the European treaties. They mean that the framework is set for the European elections. That is also the right, I have just mentioned Article 223 of the European Treaty on European Union to do so. Within these frameworks, the countries are then responsible for the implementation of the elections. If there were proposals to change the European Act on this point, I have just outlined that this can only be done if the Dutch Parliament, the Second and the First Chamber, agrees. That's gonna have to prove it. That also depends on what exactly the proposals are. Mr Van Raak mentioned a number of things, but there are still amendments. Let's see what the proposal is going to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-15.u13	Exceptionally, I will allow a follow-up question, without setting a precedent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-15.u14	I asked about the view of the Dutch Government. Does it support the majority of the Chamber, which says: no matter what proposals come from Brussels, we are dealing with how we organise the elections? Or does the government believe that Brussels, the European Parliament, can decide how to organise the elections, regardless of their content?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-15.u15	Your Majesty's not here, so it's "the cabinet."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-15.u16	That is a useful addition. Furthermore, it is a bit the same as asking what the government's view is about the laws of gravity, because we only consider them as given. I also regard the European Treaty as a matter of fact within which we have to work. It doesn't matter what we think. The organisation of the European elections must, of course, fit within the framework of the European Treaty. I do not know whether Mr Van Raak automatically speaks on behalf of the entire Chamber when he says that Europe cannot find anything about it. There may well be views in the Dutch Parliament on the parts he has just mentioned. This will be evident at the moment when there is a proposal and a draft proposal from the Dutch Government will be presented. Then a full debate can take place in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-15.u17	Then Mr Van Raak will certainly touch on this point again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-15.u18	We look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-10-tweedekamer-15.u19	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I propose that we vote next Tuesday.
