ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment to the Upper House. I inform the Chamber that Mr De Lange informed the President of the First Chamber by letter of 1 May 2015 that he had broken all ties with the political party OSF. He wants to maintain his membership of this Chamber under the name of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Mr De Lange will therefore take part in this debate not on behalf of the OSF but as an independent member of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u2	Madam President. During everyday work, it is easy to lose sight of how wonderful the plenary room we are in is. It's a space full of history, and full of symbolism. It is a room that reminds us of the glory of the Republic of the Seven United Provinces. Those who take the trouble to look at the ceiling see the various peoples with whom the republic was trading. Those who really look closely see in the middle a number of small figures that seem to enter the Chamber as it were. From Mrs Bep Berndsen, it is good to remind her here, I understand that until the mid-1990s, it was thought that these figures symbolize the English who threatened the republic. But after the ceiling was cleaned in the mid-1990s, we now know better and we see that they are children. The flower of the nation, as was said at the time. The future generation looks down on the present generation, to see if the interests of all generations are being adequately monitored. With that hint from the past, we're back in the here and now. And we've arrived at the bill on the AOW. This bill is primarily about safeguarding the interests of all generations. It's about honesty and reasonableness. It's about giving and taking over. It's about rights and obligations. I think you can say that there are two fundamental reasons why we are having this debate. The first reason is good news: never before in history so many Dutch people lived in such good health for so long in such good conditions. I think it would be useful to mark this again at the beginning of this debate. The second reason is the demographic change of the Netherlands. That's not as good or as bad news as it is for all of us. For the sake of clarity, let me mention the numbers again. They make it crystal clear what is going on. In 1957, when the AOW was introduced, every AOW-holder faced more than 7.5 people between 20 and 64 years of age. In the meantime, this ratio is about 1 in 4. The estimate is that in 2040 that ratio will be 1 in 2. This means that the burden of the AOW will be borne by fewer and fewer workers. If you keep those two factors in mind, it is wise that in 2012 politics finally moved on to raise the age of AOW. I would like to add that this was after far too long of hesitation. Once again, politics has shown itself to be a soft healer in the short term. In the first years, AOW age has hardly risen. That was the reason why we and others urged in 2012 to increase the age of AOW faster and further in the period immediately ahead of us. That was certainly true for the initial bill, but to a lesser extent for Kunduz bill, if I may put it that way. We did that in the belief that doing more in the short term is fairer for all generations. We also did so in order to prevent those most affected by these laws from facing a third legislative proposal. The irony is that this is exactly why we are here today to speak again on this subject. The cabinet is calling for an acceleration of the increase. In concrete terms, the government intends to increase the AOW age by one month in 2016, by two, by three in 2018, by four in 2019, by five in 2020 and by six months in 2021. I'm not gonna make a big deal out of it. We as the CDA Group weigh the interests of all generations. It is about the interests of those under 60. To the pleasure of possibly some of the senators present, I shall call this the young people. It concerns those to whom the acceleration applies. If we try to balance the interests of all these groups against each other, we think that the main line of this bill is an improvement on the current situation. Moreover, the proposal is financially effective, legitimate, enforceable and enforceable. We therefore support the main points, but we see three main objections. Firstly, this cabinet too has not dared to make full use of the short-term. The cabinet took office at the end of 2012, so a first adjustment in 2013 might have been somewhat ambitious. But the cabinet also left 2014 and 2015 unused, and in 2016, very carefully, added a month. That's a missed opportunity. A missed opportunity that is also difficult to explain to the sixtyminners. My question to the Secretary of State is: why? Secondly, the proposal in its present form has been unnecessarily delayed. The ink of the coalition chord was dry before 2013 started and it is now May 2015. The delay that has occurred cannot be caused by the effort it has taken to produce this proposal. Without wanting to fail the Secretary of State or anyone else: it is a repeat exercise of 2012 and it consists of barely 6 pages. To put it domestically, the Secretary of State will not have been squandering on it at the kitchen table for months. And yet we are one and a half years ahead; one and a half years, in which there is unnecessarily no security or insufficient security for the people involved. My question to the Secretary of State is again: why? Thirdly, this is the most important of the three points......................................................................................................... The Explanatory Memorandum remains largely vague on this point. Let me give an example of one point. We asked the Secretary of State about the consequences for unemployed elderly people whose AOW age is affected by this proposal. Others have also asked for this. The Secretary of State then indicated that they "may be entitled to WW" with a "possible supplement based on the Supplementary Act." But that's not all. If there is not enough WW, the IOW or the IOAW may be called on. And if all this doesn't work out, then "there can be a right to a benefit under the Participation Act." Linguistically and legally, all these wordings are of course flawless, but practically they do not provide any basis. I have no idea what this sum of ifs and buts will yield in euros. Even after the further reply, there is no such clarity. I think there is a great need for that in this Chamber, but certainly outside. It would be a good idea for the Secretary of State at least to provide full clarity in this debate. I believe that this is necessary in order to reach a final balance on this proposal. What specific groups are affected by this proposal? How big are these groups? What's the exact impact on the wallet? What are the repair options? What part can't be repaired? We would like an answer from the Secretary of State. May I suggest to her that that answer should be put on paper and shared with the Chamber in the course of this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u3	Senator Hoekstra started with a structural problem. I think it's right to put that down, but this bill isn't about that structural problem, is it? This bill is only about speeding up structural agreements. Am I right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u4	I have put it a different way than Mr Reuten put it. I said that the reason to finally increase the age of AOW in 2012 is the structurally longer life expectancy of the Dutch. Mr President, after this last point of precision, I have nothing else to thank you for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. I am replacing Senator Elzinga who can only be in the Chamber later in the day by a Council of Europe meeting. Let me immediately reflect the starting point of my group. As we know, we had reservations at the time about the structural increase in the AOW age and its design. The legislative proposal that has been passed on this subject is a fact that we accept. I won't interfere with that today. The starting point is that the AOW age is structurally based on life expectancy at the age of 65. I'm judging the proposal now. Politicians carry out their social views and achieve them. In concrete legislative proposals, however, balancing interests on the basis of facts is the essence of politics. I have been practicing this here for the past eight years and will do so today. There are four main interests involved in this bill. Firstly, the state finances, secondly, the group of future AOWs affected by this bill more than the other groups, thirdly, the current unemployed affected by displacement and fourthly, the total public finances. As I will show, the first interest is in favour of the legislative proposal, although the urgency is questionable. The other interests argue against it in conjunction. I start with the state finances because this was the important reason to prepare the bill and finally to submit it to the Lower House in November 2014. The economic situation is always surrounded by uncertainties, but we in the Netherlands rely on the predictions of the CPB. If we compare the latest CPB estimates from March 2015 with those from a year earlier, we see GDP growth rising from 1.25% in 2015 to 1.8% in 2016. The EMU balance decreases from -2.1% in 2015 to -1.2% in 2016. Given the valley where we come from, these are important improvements in one year. Even more important are the relationships between those numbers. With GDP growth higher than the percentage budget deficit, debt as a percentage of GDP automatically falls. This was not the case a year ago, but it is now 0.85% and 0.6% respectively. In this way, we are in a fundamentally different situation, all the more so in relation to the situation from the time of the 2013 C3 accord. In public finances, we are faced with important new facts, which at least highlight the urgency of the public finance bill. I ask the Secretary of State and the other spokesmen to respond to this point. Does the Secretary of State recognise that, compared to a year ago, we have important new information? Does it recognise that it makes at least the weighting of the national budget interest quantitatively different from that of a year ago? The savings for the government average a total of 404 million per year for the period 2016 - 2024. In terms of GDP for 2016, this is 0.06% of GDP. How you turn it around, this saving amount for the government is very much equal to all kinds of loss items for those involved. I am now discussing the second interest, that of those directly involved. There will be very few words to say that this bill goes against their interests. The Secretary of State acknowledges this in several documents, but she and the Cabinet consider the importance of the state finances to be higher. I will be brief about the interests of those involved, because the details are known. They have not been able to prepare for the measure. Some are known to have been or are being affected by multiple AOW adjustments. The spokesmen have received many poignant letters. My only question today is whether the government has reasonable arguments for meeting this particular group when it comes to the importance of state finances. If so, what arguments are these? The cabinet wants to save 400 million euros on average every year. Let me go with that. Why, however, does the government take away 400 million from this particular group of AOWs? Why hasn't the choice been made on a nine-year charge of €0.50 per household or a slight increase in the top ib rate or the capital tax rate? Does the Secretary of State acknowledge that these would have been reasonable alternatives? I would also like to ask the spokesman for D66, because his party was looking at reasonable alternatives. What have these AOWs done wrong in the eyes of the cabinet so that they deserve punishment? Does the cabinet consider it appropriate and proportionate to strike this group with the sword of government power? My group believes that this group is disproportionately affected, without any significant opportunity to cover itself financially. There are considerable differences within this group and therefore additional disproportionate effects. I come to the third point, that of the displacement of the unemployed associated with this legislative proposal. Unemployment is far too high. Mostly the unemployed and their children have paid the price of the crisis years to a large extent and they are still paying them. Its psychological and social-psychic pain is difficult to express in money. My group believes that we, the Chamber and the Government, have a social duty to do everything possible to help the unemployed get a job. Does the Secretary of State acknowledge that this bill does the opposite? I want to get a clear answer to that. I can only conclude on this point that this bill affects the unemployed disproportionately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u6	I was already intrigued by the first part of Mr Reuten's speech on state finances. This is not a topic on which the SP has taken the most care in recent years, but in fact Mr Reuten is now saying that it is much better and that this bill is not necessary. Then the opposite is true: it should have been an inspiration to vote in favour of these legislative proposals a few years ago. It's either-or, I think. So my question to Mr Reuten is: does this mean that the argument is not valid and that he will embrace this bill? Or does he, in good Dutch, have second thoughts about his choice at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u7	No, there are two things about the current state finances. I may not have to repeat this here, but the first point is that it is not prudent to cut back in a recession.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u8	Mr. Reuten is coming with a statement. By the way, that statement is debatable. Let us not go into this now, because it is not about the macro-economics. However, I would like to have said this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u9	Okay. The second point is that, for the medium term, the relationship between the budget deficit and economic growth is rather crucial. In the period from 1980 to now there were only six years with a budget surplus. That was a very small budget surplus. On average, the budget surplus was 0.5% in those six years and 6 out of 35 years. However, public debt has declined at that time, from 1980 to now. The crucial point in terms of public finances and public debt is therefore the relationship between economic growth and the budget deficit. As long as economic growth is higher than the budget deficit......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is why we are in a fundamentally different situation from last year and two years ago, when this proposal was put together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u10	I agree exactly with Mr Reuten. That should have been the inspiration for the SP to embrace the proposal at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u11	Then? No, I'm talking about this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u12	Yes, but it's either-or, Mr Reuten. Either this is a valid argument and for that reason you will be opposed to this proposal, or that is not the case. If it is now a valid argument, that was also the case a few years ago and your conclusion should have been exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u13	No, there are two different things; I have already tried to bring that up in an interruption. On the one hand, there is the issue of the structural increase in the AOW age. This bill doesn't change that. Another point is the acceleration in the run-up to it; that is what this legislative proposal is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u14	Mr Hoekstra, you have made your point. It's obvious. I give the floor to Mr Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u15	Mr Reuten speaks very loudly. I think it's a bit easy to simply move away from a austerity proposal or really anticipating a considerably longer life expectancy. He also mentioned the word "disproportionate" twice: with regard to the target group we are talking about today and also with regard to the employment effects. Can Mr Reuten, focusing on these examples, indicate to me what the Socialist Party would be proportional or proportional?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u16	Our first task at the moment, in this enormous crisis, is to ensure that people get out of unemployment. That's a scourge for those people and for their children. That's a priority. It brings a storm into your life when you become unemployed. That means low income and has psychological consequences. That remains our first priority, and that must also be the government's first priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u17	But that is independent of proportionality. I believe that all the groups in this House agree wholeheartedly with you that employment is the Pudels Kern. No one's questioning that. What we dispute is that in relation to proportionality, you say that if we do not allow the elderly to work by granting them an AOW, that would be a meaningful labour market approach for that target group. I would expect much more for you to look at measures that would help that target group to get to work. That would be my interpretation of proportionality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u18	I will deal with this later, but the Secretary of State also acknowledges that this proposal will lead to a displacement of the opportunities for the current unemployed. That is the disproportion: this bill affects the current unemployed even more. I think that we and the PvdA should not want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u19	Mr Postema, I understand that emotions are on the rise during this debate, but I would like you to speak through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u20	That's fine, Mr. Chairman. I'd be happy to. I'll leave those emotions with you. I wonder why, then, Mr Reuten does not hold an employment argument for the target group we are talking about today. Isn't it important for that target group to get a full-time job and are we going to keep them out of the labour market with an AOW benefit at a time when, even in the future, we need everyone very much, bearing in mind the relationships mentioned by Senator Hoekstra regarding the ability to carry the AOW in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u21	No, that's not what this bill is about. This bill is not about the structure. This bill is only about the adjustment in six years' time. It is not about the structural adjustment of the AOW age to life expectancy. That's not what the bill's about. The Secretary of State is clear about that too. So we are dealing with a group that really does not want to continue working, because today's 65-plussers have aligned their plans with the AOW age that the government has recently proposed to them. So they are faced with a staggering policy. They have not been able to adapt their plans in time. On the other hand, the group is being repressed. That is what you and I say, if I may believe you, that even all of us are saying that tackling unemployment should be our priority. That's not right. It's either one or the other. If you say with me that tackling unemployment must be a priority, you must reject that bill. Mr President, the moods are no higher in my mind than usual, by the way! My fourth point is the importance of the overall public finances, i.e. the finances of the government and of the municipalities. The Secretary of State acknowledges the displacement that has just been mentioned, but is not yet prepared to provide the figures. I understand that, because those figures would sink the benefits of the bill. In the note following the report in the First Chamber, she writes about the short- and medium-term effects: "The uncertainties on this time horizon are too great for the CPB to make an estimate," but this is particularly relevant for this bill, especially for the unemployed themselves, but also for the intended benefits of the bill. With regard to displacement, the Secretary of State calls for long-term labour market balance. I note, as I have just done, that this proposal concerns the short and medium term. I also note that in the previous major recession, the peak of the unemployment rate in 1983 was 10.7 and that it took 13 years until it was halved. In 2014, the corresponding percentage according to the national definition is 8.3, 7.4 according to the ILO definition. When we add thirteen years to 2014 it is 2027. It is therefore obvious that, during the period covered by the legislative proposal, unemployment and also unemployment and welfare benefits will be very significant. The effect of this bill is to increase it. It is very remarkable that the bill calculates benefits in respect of AOW benefits but completely ignores the counterpart in unemployment and welfare benefits through displacement. In response to questions put by my group in the reply, on page 14, the Secretary of State states that the bill concerns 1.5 million people with an average of 4.3 months of AOW income loss. These are a total of 540,000 years of work over the period 2016-2024. That is on average 60,000 years of work per year. These are an average of 60,000 AOW benefits each year which are saved, but the counterpart is that municipalities have to provide tens of thousands of additional welfare benefits. I do not see that in the benefit and expense estimates of the bill. Do I have to understand that the cabinet is throwing these extra benefits on the board of the municipalities? How many are there? The Secretary of State states in the reply on page 19: "Most elderly people will continue to work up to the increased AOW age. A small proportion of the elderly will spend longer in a different benefit situation, such as unemployment or disability." This is a crucial quote. So most of the elderly are displaced. On average, municipalities would receive more than 30,000 additional benefits on an annual basis, with a cumulative amount of 2.1 to 2.7 billion, depending on the amount of the benefit...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u22	Mr Backer has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u23	I was in the middle of a sentence. Anyway, I'll take it right back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u24	Yeah, I got the wallet. That was the reason for my question. At the heart of Mr Reuten's macro-economic argument is that it looks different than was previously thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u25	That's one point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u26	Yes. At the heart of his argument is that the labour market is a closed system. So every non-working AOWer goes straight to the welfare level. It could also be the case that the labour market is growing in its entirety and that there is no one-to-one displacement, as Mr Reuten argues. Is there room for that thought in his approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u27	There's definitely room for that thought. That's what I started. I have referred to the trend of unemployment in the Netherlands over the last 35 years. We see that in the early 1980s unemployment was 10.6%. Yes, unemployment has fallen; so the dynamic that Mr Backer is talking about is there, but it took 13 years for it to be halved to 5.6%. And in those days, those municipalities have to keep paying benefits. This is gonna be on top of that. So yes, that dynamic in the longer term is there, but it takes a very long time. In the last major recession, it took 13 years to only halve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u28	That has then been the case statistically.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u29	That's all we've got.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u30	I know that you are a great man in the statistics and that is an important merit in the debate, but it is not all statistics. The fundamental change in the labour market in recent years and the increase in the participation of older people or over 55 are relatively significant. We didn't expect that either. I do not think you should rule out this development.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u31	I don't want to rule out any information, but when it comes to empirical facts versus speculation, I have to give greater weight to the empirical facts. Those empirical facts teach us that it takes a damn long time for you to get into the good grades from the recession of then and now. I was just doing the math. If I understand the Secretary of State correctly, she says that most of those 65+ remain at work. Of those 60,000, that's at least 30,000. Then municipalities will be left with 30,000 extra benefits. These six-year cumulative amounts amount to EUR 2.1 to 2.7 billion, depending on the amount of the benefit. This will result in 60% to 75% of the estimated benefits of the legislative proposal. But even in the event that not most but only 35% of the elderly will continue to work, 42% to 53% of the estimated benefits are lost. I refer to a footnote in my text which I have had distributed. There's a little table in there that shows how I calculated this. I would ask the Secretary of State if she recognizes that, assuming her figures are 60% to 75% of the benefits of the bill, and if you take a different figure, assuming 35%, almost half of the benefits of the bill are still lost. In other words, I believe that both the Lower House and the First Chamber have not been sufficiently informed by the Secretary of State about the consequences of the legislative proposal, namely that the case I have now raised has been kept entirely outside the State Secretary's estimates.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u32	I was actually going to ask another question, but what Mr Reuten is saying is interesting. Does he think the Secretary of State did not inform the Chamber sufficiently?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u33	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u34	What is the consequence of that, in its view?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u35	I don't know. I am not speaking on my own; that is what the Chamber as a whole is about. My group, too, is not only concerned with this, but we do have our views on it. When you get to such an important bill that hits so many people hard. If the estimates are misrepresented, that is a serious matter. I assume that Mr Hoekstra thinks that is a serious matter too. I don't know if he followed my reasoning about the benefits, but it's two-and-a-half. Or the Secretary of State says, "Most people keep working." Then it comes to the sign of the municipalities and then the benefits of the proposal fade away. Or the Secretary of State says, "What I said isn't right." Then the consequence is that the 65-plussers are even more affected than the Secretary of State has always proposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u36	Still, just for precision. Mr Reuten says he can't decide this on his own, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u37	I can't decide on my own what to do if the Secretary of State gives us a misrepresentation. That's what the Chamber as a whole is about. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u38	Perhaps Mr Reuten can exercise a little patience, because then I can finish my question. He said: I am not on my own about that, but I assume that the accusation to the Secretary of State that she has misinformed both Chambers of the States-General is not the accusation of Mr Reuten personally, but of the First Parliamentary Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u39	Of course, of course. I always speak for my group. Whenever I say "I," I mean, "I, the SP." Let me put it nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u40	In which cases pluralis majestis is in place or not, I will leave it untouched. I'll be right back with my other question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u41	Why does Mr Reuten not include in his analysis the reply of the Secretary of State in the reply of 15 May?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u42	What part is Mr Postema referring to now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u43	On the road leak effects of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u44	Because things are very unspecific. I have quoted the Secretary of State on one section, namely the passage in which she refers to'most elderly'. I read that answer, but the Secretary of State actually writes: I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u45	It is not a matter of nothing that the SP Group brings forward here. I can only assume that the SP spokesperson has made sure of it and in the debate I would like to know what information the Secretary of State has actually provided to this Chamber on the effects of road leaks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u46	Can Mr Postema remind me of what he refers to when he talks about that factual information? I didn't see it. The Secretary of State writes that it's all very difficult and that she doesn't know. The CPB gives some figures, but if you take the figures that are there, you can derive a lot from that and I've tried to do that. There is information, including that of the Secretary of State, but it does not follow from that that there is a significant leak in the road, at least it supports that not quantitatively speaking, which leads to the loss of the benefits of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u47	Maybe I can speed up the debate a little bit. I think both colleagues are talking about different things. Mr Reuten talks about displacement leaks and Mr Postema talks about another leak that has been quantified in the answers and that relates to the use of benefits by those who later go with AOW. In my opinion, these are two different road leaks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u48	Those are two fundamentally different things. That little road leak, that small amount, it's been in there from the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u49	That is 1.8 billion, Mr Reuten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u50	Yeah, but that's a whole other thing. Thanks to the GroenLinks spokesperson. It is true that there are two fundamentally different issues at stake. One is the amount that leaks to 65-plussers. The other thing, and I am always talking about this, is the leak to the current unemployed who are being pushed out of town to receive additional benefits. The first one is always in the pieces, but the second one is never in the pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u51	Let me add a reasonable alternative to the discussion. The road leak has been dealt with in great detail...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u52	The second road leak?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u53	Yes. For the sake of clarity, I would like to point out that it has been dealt with in great detail, both in the reply and in the reference to the note on page 18 of the report. Many sections are included. I think that the statement I find rather a statement that the Chamber would not have been sufficiently informed does not apply. I have just asked a question about repression. The difficulty of the right answer to that question is whether it is a closed system or not. I am now making a suggestion to Mr Reuten for a question which he might ask, or else I will ask him myself: is the Secretary of State prepared to do something in the Municipal Fund for that leak if it turns out to be larger than was initially budgeted? In my opinion, this is a very relevant question for the municipalities. The answer to this will be very relevant to their financial system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u54	That is a particularly relevant question and I hope that Mr Backer will put it to the Secretary of State. Yes, Senator Backer, it's nice to have municipalities compensated for these extra benefits, but then I'm referring to my little interrupting debate with Senator Postema. We have talked about his and my priority and, according to him, everyone's priority, namely that we should be primarily concerned with the unemployed. This bill has the effect of adding more unemployed people, people who do want to work, and these are people of younger and average age, depending on where you draw the line. A number of prospective AOWs think it's enough, but that's another matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u55	I will take this into account in my own consideration. I think that's better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u56	I will conclude with three summary preliminary conclusions. First of all, even if this bill were to be viewed exclusively by the state finances, the urgency of the legislative proposal would be considerably less than one year ago, let alone at the time of the agreement in question. This is because the turning point has been reached where GDP growth is higher than the budget deficit as a percentage of GDP. Secondly, the bill affects a group of AOWs and a group of unemployed in a socially disproportionate way. Thirdly, if we look at the overall public finances, there will be very much less benefits than the cabinet expects, which is 42% to 75% less. The municipalities pay a great deal of the partial benefits for the government. I don't think that's good governance. If the Secretary of State comes to a corresponding balance of interests, I suggest she withdraw the bill. I await her response with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u57	I have to make a confession: I am a relatively loyal visitor to the website sp.nl. That website said two years ago...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u58	That's not a confession, I'm doing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u59	On my part, it's a confession. Until a year or two ago, that website said that any increase in the AOW was unnecessary, nonsense and undesirable. That was a very definite text that you could imagine would be published by the SP for decades to come. Today, it says on that website that the AOW age should at least remain at 65 until 2020. I would like to know from Mr Reuten what the view of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the Party of European Socialists is about the age of AOW.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u60	The view of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is the following. You have points of view at some point and you carry them out. If you lose the debate at some point, that's a fact and then you have to go on where you've all come and make the best of it. So not to look back, but to fight for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u61	That is not the beginning of an answer to my question. Besides, it's not what the SP does either. After all, the SP says that it should remain 65 until 2020 and that it does not make any comments about the period after that. That is not the current reality, the law says something else at the moment. So I repeat my question...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u62	Do I understand correctly that this is not about the bill, but about the increase in the AOW age in general?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u63	My question to Mr Reuten is as follows. Today we are debating an increase in the AOW age. What, according to the SP Group in the First Chamber, is a desirable increase or decrease in the AOW age?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u64	The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has accepted the current situation. The structural increase in the AOW age is a political fact. However, this legislative proposal is not about a structural increase, but only about a certain manoeuvre prior to the established structural increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u65	It is a good thing that we have noted this, because that means that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the Party of European Socialists agrees with the practice laid down in the current law, to speak in Mr Reuten's terminology. That's something other than what can be read on one of my favorite websites.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u66	I would just like to say that I started my speech with this. I understand that you cannot constantly concentrate on every point of a spokesperson, but I started by saying that at the time we had objections to the structural increase and design of it. However, I have also said that I will not interfere with that today. That's what I started and that's what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u67	In the story, I have heard Mr Reuten say a few times that he believes that there is a direct relationship between the size of unemployment and the measure to allow people to work longer by raising the age of AOW. This is an issue which we have also discussed in written preparation. I have to admit, I'm not out of it either. Perhaps Mr Reuten can help me further. I get the impression he'll see that direct relationship. If that's the case, I'd like to hear it from him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u68	Then I'll have to go back to the matter. A structural increase in the AOW age, whether you are in favour of it or not, is inevitable in the long term because we all live longer. The big question has always been when to do that. It is, of course, the dumbest thing to do at a time when you are dealing with enormous unemployment. We have, however, done so at such a time. I have just said that it took 13 years to halve the unemployment rate of 10.8 in 1983. Raising the AOW age is okay, but it's just the wrong time to do it. You have to do this at a time when unemployment is low, otherwise it will lead to the displacement of young people by the elderly. And that's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u69	That is what we said in the written procedure. The Secretary of State has given an answer to that question, whether or not it is convincing for you. I shall come back to that in my own contribution. However, I do not hear you say that you have the knowledge that this direct relationship is there and that raising age has a direct effect on the level of unemployment. The Secretary of State can't convince me, but you can't convince me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u70	I do not believe that there is an economist who disputes that if labour supply increases while demand remains about the same, this will lead to higher unemployment in the medium term. I do not believe that there is a division of opinion on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u71	The Secretary of State says that every supply of labour generates a new demand. I can't hear you disprove that. I can't either, I can only assume it. If that statement is true, then your story doesn't add up. If that statement is not true, the Secretary of State has a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u72	I have to protect the Secretary of State, because she is right to distinguish between the long term, the medium term and the short term. The CPB says that supply adapts structurally to demand in the long term. What, however, is the long term? I have a graph here and you can see that since the beginning of the 1980s unemployment has been almost constantly above 4%. The CPB is talking about structural, but I don't know where we'll come from. Either way, if we follow the CPB's idea, we always live in the short term. Keynes also said that we can talk about the structural long term, but that we always live in the short term. If you look at the short term of the past 35 years, you can see that unemployment has been under 4% for two or three years and above that forever.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u73	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State gave a surprise in the response. Not only does it want to speed up the increase in the AOW age, but it also wants to change the composition of the First Chamber, as it will look in practice on 9 June. Consistently, she writes about the members of the 50PLUS Group, indicating that governance means foresight. A compliment on our part, albeit with the remark that this will be the last compliment in this contribution. I have reviewed all the documents and reports in preparation for this debate, and it is striking that the government itself is increasing the burden of proof in many places against the proposed measures. I'll show you this very hard. What is more striking are the endless repetitions of cold reasonings such as "the elderly must also contribute," "the time of preparation for the elderly affected is less than we consider legally necessary, but still sufficient" and "there are sufficient resources, even if the victims undergo this completely different." I will give some examples of this later. With the mouth the support of the trade union movement is confessed as necessary, but in practice the large trade unions are icy ignored. In front of us is a bill on which, demonstrably, people have not been able to prepare themselves sufficiently and with which the government shows itself to be very unreliable. The proposal is a tough austerity measure, which must only fill the public purse, even if it means that tens of thousands of people are faced with an AOW hole and many will end up in assistance. In their letter of 15 April 2015, the three trade unions FNV, CNV and VCP referred to this bill as proof of inappropriate government administration. I would ask the Secretary of State to respond to this unmistakable conviction. No one can claim with this proposal that this cabinet is building bridges. This proposal does unnecessarily many destructions and is clearly too far away. In the explanatory memorandum, the cabinet recognises that it has made a balance between a need for finance and legal certainty for people who are close to retirement. In its memo of 17 February 2015 to the House of Representatives and in its response to this Chamber, the Cabinet fully admits that the accelerated increase in the age of AOW is a policy choice, which is not motivated by a sudden sharp increase in life expectancy. In the House of Representatives, Mrs Klijnsma said and I quote: I am only crystal clear about it: the bill makes an important contribution to improving public finances. And she added: It's not structural, but it occasionally brings the state budget to story. The need has been further removed by the general economic progress sang by the Prime Minister. The plans for billions of relief for workers are in full swing. However, this cabinet and Mrs Klijnsma have once again chosen the right to legal certainty for people who are just before their retirement. What this means in practice is a letter dated 18 April from Dick Westerbeek, the chairman of the NetWerkgroep45plus Nijmegen: do not push people over the edge of a habitable existence and do not drive people to despair. As President, I am already faced with many people who are no longer comfortable with despair. It's just where your priorities lie. In any case, people with often lower education and lower income are uncomfortablely the victims of our heartless cabinet policy. I strongly appeal to the parties who always give up so much on the need for this Chamber to exist. What are the facts about these undisturbed accelerations and the too short preparation time shown for the citizens? In October 2011, a bill regulates the age of AOW to 66 in 2020 and 67 in 2025. This will be accelerated in 2012. The increase to 66 years will not take place in 2020, but in 2019 and the increase to 67 years not in 2025, but in 2023. The government agreement is now implementing the proposal to accelerate the AOW age further: the increase to 66 years will not go in by 2020, not by 2019, but by 2018. The increase to 67 years will not take place in 2025, not in 2023, but in 2021. The Socialists used to sing a battle song about salvation from slavery, which was widely supported by the voice of the people, now the lyrics of the solo vocals are: "Move aside, move aside, we are in an incredible hurry." Voters and citizens who were expecting a happy old age are constantly being robbed and unearned towards an uncertain future. I quote from a letter from Caroline van Lunenburg dated 17 April 2015: I was already counting down and every time I have to change that again. That's very frustrating because I have a lot of physical complaints. I'm trying to keep it up, but in my case, it's gonna be seven months. I have a few specific questions for the Secretary of State. In 2012, she signed the election programme of the Labour Party. In it, the accelerated increase in the age of AOW, as mentioned in the ironically mentioned spring agreement, was literally called unthinking. In fact, a certain reversal was promised. A few months later, however, she signs the coalition agreement and is going to personally execute the knee fall for the VVD: the unthought-out acceleration is not reversed, but fully maintained. In fact, not unthought but considered, a new great acceleration is added. In the Lower House, ally D66 called the PvdA trade method a bad case. I would like to know from Mrs Klijnsma how she explains this double flip and whether she understands that this is a textbook example of electoral deception. What was more striking is the question asked by the PvdA Group in the written preparation: is this, apart from those linked to life expectancy, the last increase in the AOW age, or can repeats be expected? I have had to read the answer a few times, but rarely was the answer to such a question so evaded. We know that in January 2022 the AOW age will be further increased by three months due to life expectancy, but the question is to be clear: can the Secretary of State guarantee that before that date there will not be another proposal for an accelerated increase in the AOW age? We would like to know in concrete terms whether this guarantee exists. On 26 April 2012, the then Minister of Social Affairs Henk Kamp wrote in his note 33046 that the cabinet aims for a broad agreement with employers and employees and that sufficient preparation time for raising the AOW age is important for employees and employers. This government, too, says it attaches itself to sufficient preparation time. The Secretary of State stated in the Lower House when considering Amendment No 8 "that he attaches very much to a period of five years for the announcement of the increase in the AOW age." In the reply, too, the government states that it is aware of the importance of sufficient preparation time. But where the left leg makes half a step forward, the right leg goes back two steps. The government fully admits it on page 6: The transition period for those affected by an AOW increase in age by this three-month legislative proposal is about 2.5 years........ is shorter than the five years that apply to age increases due to the link to life expectancy. The carelessness of this law and the crooked reasoning of the government are highlighted by the addition: but the government considers that this period is sufficient. Can the Secretary of State now explain what she thinks: does she like a period of five years or does she not care if it does not suit this cabinet? Does she agree with her party colleague Vermeij, who said in the House of Representatives about the five years of preparation: we all want it? If this proposal is adopted, many people will have to deal with a six-month preparation period. The large trade unions call this inappropriate administration. We agree. We leave aside the fact that some continue to lead foolishness by saying that it was already in the government agreement in 2012. As if the people, if they know how to find it, should hang the coalition agreement above their beds and as if there is no difference between government intentions and reality. Does the Secretary of State agree with us that there is only one criterion and that is when the law was passed by the entire parliament? Another harrowing point is the loss of income. The Secretary of State reports that this bill is a loss of income for everyone born after 30 September 1950 and before 1 January 1957. Up to 9 months of AOW benefit and on average 4.3 months of AOW benefit. In addition, the longer-term AOW premiums or the higher tax rate will be paid. This happens to people who, after the previous increases, did not count on it at all or people who voted PvdA because they believed the electoral promises of this party and did not think that social democracy would go along with the VVD on such an important point. Or even stronger, as has now happened to Mrs Klijnsma, when flag is used on this barge. Nurses and construction workers who may happen to have to deal with an AOW hole that means they have a net net net €763 to spend. And not everyone can save for that or eat their pension early in the day. Here too, the practice teaches how Hague politics is far from the real world. From the very many letters we received as First Members of Parliament, I also refer to the writing of Henk Derksen from Goor. "For us, raising the AOW age again is a dramatic development. My wife and I are both with the VRS and no longer have the opportunity to close the AOW-hole. We worked together on the railways for over 80 years, early and at night. We decided a long time ago what our old age would look like. We made a number of choices based on the calculated income. We needed our savings to pay for our funeral. That's not gonna work right now. We're gonna need that savings to close the AOW hole. We are going to receive a total of €25,000 less, despite the fact that we have been told for years and years. That is unjust and unreasonable." That is what people write and how they experience it. In many places, the Secretary of State repeats without leaving a muscle that can be expected to contribute to these people and groups. It is so often reported in the documents that you get the impression that the Secretary of State cannot get enough of this, while these people have already made a very big contribution as a result of the earlier accelerated increases in the AOW age. From the page on the page. 13 of the reply shows that a total of 1.5 million people are affected by the new measures. These are people who have often been affected in recent years, especially if they were not working, because their upcoming pensions have not been indexed and, unlike younger generations, they also have no idea of the repair of pension income. These people will be cut billions in the coming years. At the same time, plans are being prepared to reduce the burden on workers by four to five billion. It is not that we do not allow this to happen to the workers, but is it fair to allow the older people who have been caught before to do so to a large extent, I would ask the Secretary of State through you? The cabinet is also in a strange turn when it comes to employment. Anyone can understand, including the VVD, that if you keep jobs occupied longer, this will stagnate the influx. Yet the cabinet pretends that this has no influence whatsoever. But at the same time, on page four of the reply, it admits that some displacement may occur in the short term. This accelerated increase in age also has a significant impact on older people who are unemployed. Everyone knows how difficult it is for unemployed elderly people to get back to work. In the reply, the cabinet itself mentions the picture less rosy when older people become unemployed. Long-term unemployment is relatively common among older people, it recognises. The three trade unions clearly say it. "Regard the fight against unemployment rather than prolonging unemployment. Supporting this bill is a choice for additional unemployment between 2016 and 2023," says the trade union movement. The VVD/PvdA cabinet confesses with its mouth to want to have a good connection with the trade union movement, but in practice leaves it completely in the cold. These same trade unions crack this bill and call it an example of an unreliable government. The Secretary of State and her party have lost all contact with their former supporters. Ms Schipper from Maastricht wrote about the previous increase: "The information messages then flew around you as a radio listener and TV viewer: future pensioners... prepare for your future and see what your retirement brings. My income doesn't allow me to save. What am I in need of and what can I count on? I'm bewildered," said this madam. A lot of letter writers are broken because of an unreliable government. Unfortunately, it does not take into account how ordinary people experience it all. No, we're going to congratulate the Secretary of State for having succeeded in filling the state treasury at the expense of these people. And if we do not like the election results, we are going to call for a state committee to see what is wrong with our parliamentary system. Just one word about saving the idea. Too easy is done about the assumption that if people have enough time, for example, they can prepare for five years by saving or raising their pensions to cover the big AOW hole. Those who are forced to bring forward their pension pay this, of course, through a future lower pension from their own stock exchange. For many people, an even lower pension is not a perspective. Others have too low income to be able to save, like Hennie on the Weegh from Amsterdam who writes: "Since last year I have been pre-retirement. I have a reasonable income, but I can't spare it. On May 1, 2017, I will be 65 years old and my pension will be reduced. I'll have to wait seven months for my AOW. I reserved the €7,000 that I am short because of this when the first proposal for an increase was discussed. The proposals for bridging do not apply to me. Now I get another five months later AOW than I planned or €5,000 too short." There have been thousands of cases. People who had expected a carefree old age and now feel abandoned by politics. What 5OPLUS does not like about this Secretary of State is the little or no understanding for people with a heavy occupation or for people who are no longer able to handle the work at an older age. Although in the reply it is admitted that "at a later age some will no longer be able to take on the challenge of work" and "that is greater for the low-skilled and smaller for the highly educated." So the Secretary of State knows very well what she's doing. She has gotten very far away from the social thoughts of her great predecessors Drees, Suurhoff and Den Uyl and especially from the people who are affected, such as Mar Krijnberg from Spijkenisse who writes: "I started my 14th year as a welder in ship and tank building. Last year on pre-retirement, luckily made it. Now I will have to live for a few months, perhaps a year, of €800 per month. I'm completely worn out, have had very long days and hard work. As a thank you, I'm undressed. Think of your fellow man." It is just one of the many poignant letters we received. Both as a 50-pluser and a former member of the PvdA Chamber, I am very interested in this. When I read this, I cook on the inside. What is the political will for? The bill increases the AOW-hole for people who have already taken up pre-retirement before 2013. For a single person, this can amount to almost €10,000 on top of the existing AOW-hole of almost €20,000. For partners, the AOW-hole can reach more than €36.000. The trade unions asked for a hearing with people who could provide insight into the consequences for them. The coalition and its allies thought that was unnecessary. The PvdA also disdained the request. That is why I have quoted a few letters to let their sound be heard. This brings me to page 23 of the last election programme of the PvdA: "People can enjoy a pleasant old age with a good income thanks to the AOW for longer than before." That makes me long for a concrete answer from the Secretary of State on the following points: I have numbered those points so that no one is missed. A. The PvdA and therefore Mrs Klijnsma insist in the election programme that age increases are not at the expense of people who have long worked for low incomes. The letters show the opposite. Does Mrs Klijnsma agree with us that a reliable and conscientious politician cannot and cannot take responsibility for this? B. The PvdA and Mrs Klijnsma insist in the election programme that this is not at the expense of those who have become unemployed at a later age and cannot get back to work. The letters show the opposite. Does Mrs Klijnsma agree with us that a reliable and conscientious politician cannot and cannot take responsibility for this? C. There is no careful but ill-thought-out introduction, say the PvdA and Mrs Klijnsma in their election programme. If an introduction at 67 years in 2023 is unthinking, a few months later a acceleration to 2021 is not only ill-thought-out but also unjust, if not absurd? Doesn't Mrs Klijnsma have any honour in this regard? D. The PvdA and Mrs Klijnsma say in their election programme that there should be no gap between AOW age and existing pension rights. The many letters show that this is indeed happening. Does Mrs Klijnsma agree with us that a reliable and conscientious politician cannot and cannot take responsibility for this? E. The same question: people should not be allowed to enter assistance between the age of 65 and the age of AOW. F. As reported, Mrs Klijnsma promised before the elections that the AOW age would not be allowed until 2025 to 67 years. That gives future pensioners time to prepare for change, she thought. This whole was presented to the voter under the promising headline in the program: "We're going to do this." You're hearing it right: "We're gonna do this." What has become the practice? The party that told the voters why you shouldn't vote for the VVD broke all these extensive promises and made it worse. This is the biggest electoral deception the PvdA has ever committed against the elderly. The trade unions FNV, CNV and VCP strongly urge the members of the Eerste Kamer to reject the bill. Where they used to be an unconditional ally of the Secretary of State and her party, they are now opposed to each other. The Labour Party is paying an incredibly high toll on electoral deception with a series of solid electoral defeats. When I was part of the PvdA Senate Group, we counted 28 members. There'll be eight next month. However, if the Secretary of State has a character, it can mean a great deal to her party and all those cheated voters and those who have been hurt. 5OPLUS says to her: be a hero and tell the cabinet: I will no longer do it. Her name will then be mentioned with red gold letters in parliamentary history.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u74	Madam President. It is a pleasure to be able to express this contribution on behalf of the Party for Animals. For the rest of this debate, I am perfectly happy to do so. On June 28, 2011, I made my maiden speech in the First Chamber and, mirabile dictatu, the subject was a discount on the AOW. On that occasion it concerned discounts on the partner payment. Now, almost exactly four years later, I am taking part in my last debate in the First Chamber. Again it's about discounts on the AOW. This time it is an accelerated increase in the AOW age, but it remains a reduction. One might think this is a coincidence, but I don't believe it. Rather, this means that there has been hardly any fundamental progress in the traditional rigid pension system. In all these years there has been less and less a system in which people can have confidence, a system that respects the individual rights of participants, young and old, a system that offers that degree of certainty that people can reasonably expect. On the contrary, there is no real progress. On the contrary, the rights of participants are restricted and their financial and economic conditions are systematically deteriorated. And what is even sadder is that even after all these years there is still no light at the end of the pension tunnel. This government chooses to carry out deteriorations through the proven salami method and to mask the decline without offering any prospect of a responsible and sustainable pension system that does justice to the interests of the participants, be it young people or the elderly. Systematic demolition is the result. So far, unfortunately, the degradation process has been successful. Retirement is a tricky business. So far, the mandatory members of the sector pension funds in particular have not yet been able to find their way to Malieveld, not because they are treated properly, but because of the government's deliberate miscarriage. This poignant drama therefore deserves a more detailed analysis. In June 2011, I had this to say: "I will address the following points. First of all, it's random selection of a group of elderly people. Secondly, this is the lack of sufficient understanding of the overall income development of this group. Thirdly, this is the very lack of communication with this group. Fourthly, these are the virtually unbridgeable problems for this group to compensate for the loss of income. Fifth, this is further undermining public confidence by this measure. Already in 2010, it was tried to apply a discount on the partner premium AOW. It was then a different income group and a different discount rate. In both cases, the revenue for the state treasury was about the same. The appearance is created that it is more a question of knocking on the door, rather than a question of balanced policies. The retirement world is in a state of turmoil. No one knows what will happen to supplementary pensions. Whether the proposed pension agreement will continue is highly dubious, and the prospects for many pension funds are unfavourable. What does this mean for the purchasing power of the target group, at a time of increasing inflation, which has already risen above 2%? You're damn right I didn't." I do not pretend to have predictive gifts, but my contribution from 2011 can almost entirely be re-debated in 2015; almost completely, because in fact the situation is even more threatening now than it was then. The reason for this is clear: the fact that the issue of our pensions has only increased is mainly due to the mischief of the European Central Bank, the ECB. This bank, which has made it customary to exceed its mandate and play a prominent political role, has a monetary policy and an interest rate policy that is disastrous for every saver and every participant in a pension or savings scheme in the Netherlands. In the countries of southern Europe, as a result of the ECB's action, the path of destruction, with an unacceptable level of youth unemployment, is even greater. In the near past, far too few people recognised that nominal pensions and the award of indexation are two sides of the same coin, and that only the purchasing power of the sum of both pension components is relevant. Nowadays, you don't have to be an expert on the monetary economy to have it figured out that a negative interest rate on your savings for the future has little to offer you other than future misery. That you would have been helped by an ECB that buys worthless government bonds at the expense of the European taxpayer, the ordinary citizen does not believe in that, and he is right. By printing "free"..................................................................................................................................................... Before then, stockholders are getting out of business, and the shrapnel of this policy comes on the board of ordinary citizens who have been having more and more trouble making ends meet for years. The level of guarantees given to soul-blowing countries and pottering economies at the expense of the Dutch taxpayer amounts to about €16,000 per head of our population. A baby born today, in the first seconds of his life, immediately receives this backpack with potential debts. Thanks to the Dutch government. If we look more closely at the pension situation in Europe, the starting point in the Netherlands is much better than in almost all other countries. In addition to the safety net called AOW, which is funded through a pay-as-you-go system, there is a supplementary pension for a large part of the people who have a paid job or had a supplementary pension. Finally, people can save individually for their old age. All these forms of savings that should lead to adequate retirement provision are under great and increasing pressure. Nevertheless, the pension funds responsible for providing supplementary pensions have more than EUR 1,000 billion in cash together, and that is an amount that could burn the stove of the Dutch State for one and a half years. By the way, two thirds of the Dutch on top of the AOW have a supplementary pension of €650 or less per month, so for most there is no question of a fat pot. Almost everywhere in Europe the phenomenon of supplementary pensions is virtually unknown and the old age provision for a growing number of older people has to be paid by taxing a shrinking number of young people. The Netherlands has always had a strange attitude towards Europe. On the one hand, our Reverendland also wants to be a guide country, and we are at the forefront of all kinds of international initiatives, where a piece of naivety occasionally makes us the crazy Henkie of the continent. On the other hand, we are the merchant's country and therefore rather sceptical about the financial and economic blessings that Europe has to offer. For example, we stand on our backs when we regularly have to pay huge additional financial contributions and levies to Europe on the basis of treaties that we have signed with our own eyes. These mixed emotions at government level all too often lead to an ambiguous or even double-hearted attitude. If it is convenient for the government, the people are told to take an example of Europe. If it's less convenient, the government carries out the illusion of independence. What does all this have to do with pensions, especially the AOW? The Netherlands therefore has a much more favourable starting position in the field of pensions than almost any other country in Europe. It is also a good thing that our country is ageing in many other European countries. Despite all this, the Netherlands is leading the way when it comes to raising the AOW age. So we're out of step, but the government is very proud of it because self-tasting is in the Calvinist genes. However, the question is obvious as to how sensible it all is. There's a lot to be done, and that's what we're going to do now. The government wants to make "coûte que coûte" draconian cuts, so the money has to come from somewhere. The fact that the growing group of older people is a milk cow that traditionally doesn't reach the barricades so easily is a good thing. Earlier increases in the AOW age have already been made, the protests were not so bad, so that tastes like more. And this time the government is trying to overcome any objections in advance without any justification. With reference to the coalition agreement which has the cynical title "Building Bridges," it is stated that the problems are so extensive and acute that a contribution can also be expected from the AOW group of beneficiaries. Why? And based on what figures? Or is it really nothing more than cold cynicism? Or does the government refer to Graph 1 in the explanatory memorandum in which there is no vertical scale and where we can speak of demagogic demography? Let me say very carefully that older people should also be given the financial means to provide their livelihood in a reasonable way. This could be done by working and perhaps by working longer than before. As long as life expectancy increases, this in itself is not an unreasonable starting point. Unfortunately, there is a bear on the road, and one of enormous proportions. There has to be a job like that. But there is no such work and there will be no such work in the foreseeable future. A person aged 45 or over who loses his job has a minimum chance of getting back to work. Despite the rhetoric of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment, what's in a name? Unfortunately, that is the situation. And by creating a new AOW-hole, again without employment being opposed, we are opening the door a little further to the purchasing power trap where too many pensioners have been plunged into in recent years. And how is this government going to solve that? Do we welcome each other with a new growth sector, that of the food banks? Or are we going to push the influx towards assistance, with all the costs involved, through this bill? Or has short-sightedness become the new economic and political norm? A curious part of the bill is that the build-up period for the AOW will shift. So it can happen that you could reasonably expect to have realized a complete construction, on the basis of which you left abroad, but now being cut short. Is that fair? The government considers that it does and states that "years of construction do not constitute a due right'. The fact that such a practice and the involvement of such a debatable statement give the elderly citizen the confidence that his interests in this government are in good hands is seriously questionable on the basis of this legislative proposal. A government which, on the one hand, does not fail to argue that the confidence of its citizens has been reduced, but which is regained by current policies, nevertheless lives on a planet other than where the majority of its citizens are trying to provide themselves with an increasingly tighter form of livelihood.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u75	During the written preparation of this bill, several questions were raised and serious problems were raised with this bill. I will not go into all these critical points in the contributions of our groups today, which we often support. How many reasons can a person have to find a legislative proposal so incomplete, so unreasonable, so incomplete and so strange that it is impossible to support it? It seems to me that the points I have dealt with in detail indicate more than enough why our groups do not see any advantage in a march that is not motivated by much international knowledge of the pension landscape, whereas unfortunately the TomTom has not been purchased for budgetary reasons. Let me finish my first term. The fact that we are dealing here with a bill that is blind to social realities and is motivated only by budgetary opportunity policy is in fact unworthy of a country with a socio-economic tradition like the Netherlands. It is clear that we as a society will not find ourselves in the illusory retirement paradise that the government envisages. The fact that a vision of the pension problem has not developed over the past four years, let alone mature, is a conclusion that anyone who recognizes the enormous importance of our pensions for all generations can only regret. If past experience is a measure, our groups do not have high expectations of today's debate. But maybe the miracles aren't over yet. We're gonna see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u76	Mr. Chairman. In 2012, my colleague Marijke Scholten held the historic debate on raising the AOW age from 65 to 67 years by 2023 and linking the age criterion to life expectancy by 2020. She wondered, among other things, why the satisfaction of working life should suddenly end at a time once determined on the basis of a life expectancy of more than half a century ago. There has been a long debate on the consequences of ageing populations and how to respond appropriately. Against this background, therefore, our group's position was no surprise, as we have had a view on this since 2006. Our electoral programme states that the increase must be started. I know that from my own experience. I was chairman of that committee at the time. Our stance in the debate in 2012 had also been the background to the spring agreement of 2012 concluded after the fall of the Rutte I cabinet and faced with an urgent budgetary problem.I am looking towards my colleagues from the PVV by whom that issue was manifested by the groups of VVD, CDA, D66 and GroenLinks in the House of Representatives who took responsibility for a budgetary agreement. It also included the approach of the AOW. They immediately agreed to increase the AOW age with steps from 2013 onwards, so that in 2023 we would reach 67 years. After that, a link would be made to increasing life expectancy. These were two historic steps that my group felt had been postponed for far too long. So I have a completely different starting point from the previous two speakers. That is clear, but so do we. Both agreements have been supported in this house and have been designed in legislation. Mr President, I am not going over it, but I see that my time clock is not on. Of course, that gives me some space to go a little further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u77	I'll keep track anyway, spiritually.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u78	There are also fair rules here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u79	I turned the clock on like a hare, Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u80	For those close to that date, that was, of course, a tangible change. The representatives of that group are also present here in the public gallery. For young people, that was a long way away. Today, with the debate on the legislative proposal, there will be a one-off acceleration: from 2023 it will be 2021. D66 also had that date in her election programme. The increasing life expectancy of course was not a sudden event; it has been going on for years, but the denial has lasted long and persistently. There have just been some quotes from election programmes. What was then also applicable to this bill. Had the parties of this coalition or previous coalitions taken the pain in 2012 at once, including acceleration, it would have been much more predictable as legislative work. Whether you agree or not, it would at least have been predictable and clear and raised fewer questions about the reliability of the government. Now there are additional questions, because there are people who took the previous law as a measure. In the meantime, they have said goodbye to their employer and arrangements have been made. Those who thought they were a few months away are a little longer, and they did not have to count on it. The question to the Secretary of State, who was also asked during the debate in the Lower House, is why there has been so long delay. I continue to find this unsatisfactory. The coalition agreement already included this measure and could have been done in January or February 2013. Those concerned would have had two and a half years more time to prepare for that year and they would not have fallen between shore and ship. Can the Secretary of State give a satisfactory explanation for this? There is a great deal of money involved in the one-off budgetary savings.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u81	I understand that question to the Secretary of State very well. Do I hear between the lines that Senator Backer says it's actually unacceptable to this group and actually disproportionate? He implicitly blames the Secretary of State, but from that I also taste his view that this cannot actually be done towards that group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u82	The nice thing about the debate is that each group reflects its own views. Mr Reuten has used the words 'unacceptable' and 'disproportionate', but he does not hear me using them. I'll continue on this and I'll explain how I feel about this. There will be a number of questions and comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u83	Mr Backer asked the Secretary of State why it took so long. It could have been two years earlier. That question was answered both in the preparation and in the House of Representatives with the argument that Social Affairs had such a particularly busy agenda. That's not my argument. It's the government's argument. Now that Mr Backer knows that answer, I ask him if he can live with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u84	If I had found that a good answer, I wouldn't have asked the question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u85	Mr Backer asks why the government did not come up with this acceleration a few years ago. I understand that Mr Backer is now saying: we have already put a large number of people on the line at the time; we cannot do that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u86	Three times is the charm, because this is actually the same question, namely: what does the criticism of the way things are going for the final vote? I propose that we hold the debate first and wait for the outcome, but I am critical of that. My group has a fundamentally different position from the groups of the three spokesmen who have so far intervened. I don't think it should have happened, I think it should have been done right at once. We shall now come to the consequences of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u87	I will not go into the term 'good at once', because the debate was then completely endless. In concrete terms, a very specific group which retired early was taken very hard a few years ago. The same group is now being caught again plus another group that is now joining. That's the point. Does Mr Backer consider that reasonable?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u88	Does Mr Van Strien agree that I should finish my speech first? The follow-up will show whether I think this is reasonable or not. If I answer right now, I'll do it double and I'll need more time than I've already got. I argued that there is a one-off saving of 2.9 billion or 3.6 billion gross, depending on the precision of the estimates and what is leaking out. This has nevertheless become an important point for the constructive parties, but we are placed in the position that such a major intervention will soon prevail in the assessment of the desirability of the proposal. That's why I understand the interruptions. For us, it has always been the starting point for something to be done on a structural basis, given the ageing population and the change in society, and the relationship between workers and non-workers and between pensioners and non-pensioners. That is why we have always advocated that this should be done. Then I come to the discussion we have just had with Mr Reuten on the macroeconomic effects of this proposal. With the ex post wisdom you can say that this should or should not have happened, but I note with colleagues in the Finance Committee that the debate on the 3%, debt issues, budgetary discipline and what was needed for this has already taken place. It was then assessed that we had an interest in maintaining that discipline, also with regard to the interest rate to borrow money. We have been involved in this and it is difficult to return and say that it would no longer be necessary now. I would just like to use Mr Reuten's words: there is new daylight and new information. I can't go along with him in that reasoning. We have applied this discipline and we must maintain it. We know that this figure is not relevant for the long-term sustainability of finances, but the ratio between workers and non-workers is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u89	I will go along with the comment on the long term. You make a decision at some point based on existing information. I do not understand why Mr Backer says that if there is new information, it is irrelevant. Isn't that how we deal with matters in politics all the time? If there's any new information, we'll update our plans. Then why not now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u90	What's new information? We are talking about budgetary effects, estimates, interest rates and inflation. One thing is particularly important to my group: the relationship between workers and non-working people in our country and the extended life expectancy that we should all be pleased with. It has fundamentally changed and then you will have to adapt the social arrangements. I'm here to talk about that. How are we supposed to do that? I think that Mr Reuten and I differ.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u91	We do not now have a disagreement about the structural effects, but that is not what the legislative proposal is about. The legislative proposal is not about anything structural, it is about short- and medium-term adjustment, and that is without prejudice to the long-term structure. This is about the relevance of public finances in the short and medium term, which is different than at the time of the government agreement and the C3 agreement and then last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u92	I hear what Mr Reuten is saying. For him, the good news of economic growth is a reason to maintain his old position. There is no reason for me to change my position. I come to the transitional issue. In addition, I would like to return to the little debate I had with Mr Reuten on the displacement and possible leakage of funds into welfare payments. I would like to know how the Secretary of State wishes to deal with this systematically in the light of the Municipal Fund. After all, there are municipalities that are going to have structural problems. I would like to thank my fellow Members for the precise questions they have put in the written preparation on the transitional issues and the various categories mentioned in the reply. I am also looking forward to replying to Mr Hoekstra's supplementary question, which specific groups have not yet been mentioned and what the effects will be for those groups. The House of Representatives identified the citizens who, after 1 January 2013, entered the final date of the existing transitional scheme "fut and pre-pension'. They are affected by this acceleration because they have not been able to prepare themselves properly. A transitional arrangement has been established for this, which has been extended by an amendment by D66, the SGP and GroenLinks. This has improved the proposal for us a lot, because the bridging scheme for people who have gone with early retirement or pre-retirement before 1 January 2013 will be extended from 2019 to 2023. From a legislative point of view, it is a late improvement with the character of a repair, but better late than never. It is an improvement which will certainly help my group to evaluate the proposal positively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u93	Mr Backer pretends that there is a transitional arrangement for the whole group that is in trouble. That is not true, however. There is only a transitional arrangement for a very limited part that is at the absolute minimum of existence. Most of that group is just in trouble and has no transitional arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u94	You may have been triggered, but you were a little too quick. My next sentence would have been for my group to receive letters from those involved. In the relationship between employer and employee, arrangements have often been made between them. Sometimes the government is also the employer as a result of which a certain pattern of income was assumed. That has changed, and this leads to disappointments when introduced, but also to distressing situations. Mr Nagel mentioned a large number of them. I also notice that there is a lack of clarity as to who is or is not qualifying for the bridging regulation. In many cases, the government is party to those redundancy schemes or pre-pension schemes. The government is not a legislator, but it is an employer. And that is where it comes in, even if it is because this employer is familiar with the forthcoming legislation. What is the government's view on this? What possibilities does the government see for the government as an employer to offer a helping hand in these situations? These are situations other than those referred to by Mr Van Strien. As discussed above, such processes of changing existing rights always raise questions about the reliability of politics. In view of my political background, what reproach should we be most concerned about? Is that the age increase in that two-stage rocket instead of at once, as I wished? Or is it the more fundamental complaint that politics has for a long time ignored advice from many bodies, national and international, on the need to increase the AOW age. I had in my text that the political family of the Secretary of State is not entirely free in this either, given the PvdA programme. However, so much has already been said about this that I am going to give it a rest. Colleague Reuten spoke of not turning your back on resentment, if you change your point of view. In this context, you can also speak of moving insight. Mr Nagel has chosen a different wording for this. I'd say better halfway than completely lost. However, it may be said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u95	I did not think it was appropriate to respond to Mr Nagel's long speech to the Secretary of State. However, Mr Backer is now putting it more generically. I would like to say that in its 2012 election programme, the PvdA has called for an accelerated increase in the AOW age, by six months per 2017. Now that Mr Backer is taking over Mr Nagel's qualifications so easily, I would ask him to take more account of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u96	Do I have to deal specifically with the Spring Agreement? Actually, I didn't want to do that. The PvdA has turned against the spring agreement. Then there were elections and then the changes made were not reversed. I'm fine with all that. As I said, it's better to turn halfway than to go completely astray. That's all I want to say about it, unless you want to deepen it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u97	I do, in the sense that the reference to the electoral programme is, to say the least, one-sided. Furthermore, we have discussed the VAP Act in this house before. My colleague Han Noten then outlined the reasons for the PvdA to vote against it. At the time, there were two legislative proposals. It was a very ping-pong and the preparation time for that entire legislative process was only three days in this Chamber. So we were not able to say yes in an orderly manner at the time. We have always been of the opinion that that is what I will also argue today, and that it is crucial to adapt the AOW age to the age that people reach.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u98	Thank you for this explanation. I have also read that debate with Mr Noten and I have no reason to draw a different conclusion from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u99	I quoted two things in my speech. First of all, that is the response which makes it very clear that this accelerated increase has no relationship with the sudden increase in life expectancy. Secondly, under the heading "we're going to do" the PvdA has misunderstood that accelerated increase and has promised to partially reverse it. Instead of turning the rise back, she put a shovel on top of it. When you deal with your constituents like that, I think you're really unreliable. You can't smooth that out by saying you've always been in favour of accelerated elevation. No, the PvdA was against that agreement and she called it unthinking. She suggested a different schedule, but she did the opposite.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u100	I take note of this interruption. From the point of view of consistency of legislation, it is interesting that when it was introduced in 1955, it was foreseen that this would happen at some point. The first draft of Treub's old-age pension law of 1914 even included an age of 70 years. Moreover, the problem of synchronisation of the second and third pillar pensions has already been raised. It was Minister Suurhoff who wrote in 1955 in the explanatory statement that when the age criterion was chosen 65 years in the debate, it was good to mention that here again, because otherwise, even then, it would lead to all kinds of difficulties and complications. The then signatories considered that it was appropriate to follow the advice of the ESC, which had proposed 65 years with regard to retirement age. The Minister then continued with: "(...) would be an increase in the performance curve in the future or for other reasons an increase in the retirement age would be possible, desirable or inevitable. I think, in my own words, of the ageing population and the relationship between workers and non-employed persons, that this issue will have to be synchronised for this old-age insurance, for public and private pension provision. Amendment of the law will then be necessary (...)." This was only really on the agenda almost 60 years later. Now it's gonna happen. I have another question about transitional rights. Article IV of the amended law mentions dates and implementation actions. How does that work now? After all, we have been somewhat delayed. Finally, I quoted from Minister Suurhoff's explanatory statement and again it shows how legal history can sometimes help to overcome political dogmas, which prevent us from making the necessary and societal adjustments and which are fairly and timely appointing and transforming them into reforms. My group awaits the answers to the questions I have put with interest and will then pass its judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u101	I listened with interest to Mr Backer. He began with promising words by quoting fellow Scholten who sang the blessings of an active life. I assume everyone in this house will agree with that. I was anxiously waiting for the relationship that Mr Backer was going to establish between today's legislative proposal and the actual situation on the labour market. It must not have escaped Mr Backer that he is far from favourable. I really cannot understand how you can talk about the problems of the AOW without in any way involving employment, especially those of older people who are facing enormous problems. You then get to the point where you start to think that half truths are being debited here and we all know that those are usually worse than whole lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u102	May I ask you to be brief, Mr De Lange?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u103	Yeah, I had to get this off my chest. I would like to hear from Mr Backer how he is looking at this employment problem. This is an essential point in the whole debate, on which he had nothing to say and what he can say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u104	You always have to make choices in your contribution. I have spoken in part about the employment aspects in the interruptions with Mr Reuten. We have talked about the closed system, or not, and about the possible displacement. I think that in the labour market debate the De Lange Group, formerly OSF, has a slightly different view of life than we do. We have a somewhat more optimistic view and believe that there are opportunities for all ages, provided that there are good arrangements. We are talking about training, mediation, the functioning of the labour market, restrictions on collective agreements and minimum wage structures. All these aspects play a role in the employment effect. From my point of view, the participation of 65-plussers or 60-plussers has increased from 50% to 59% in recent years. If anyone had predicted this five years ago, he'd be a fool. I think a lot of things are non-closed and can develop. There's a bright side to it. There are also poignant cases and problems that need to be resolved. To some extent, let's be honest about this, because people are also personally responsible for choices they have made and may be disappointed in their expectations. This is reflected in this house by a lot of legislation, such as the Participation Act and the Work and Assistance Act. It is a matter of very fundamental intervention, of which my group also sees the need.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u105	I'm asking everyone to be brief because of time. Mr. Reuten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u106	Senator Backer asked the Secretary of State about the Municipal Fund. I ask him whether the D66 Group thinks it reasonable if the Municipal Fund is compensated for the displacement of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u107	The normal and reasonable answer is yes. I just can't figure out how much it is. If my argument is correct and yours is wrong, it must be somewhere in between, then it will be quite a sum. If your amount is correct, then it is unpayable and then my answer should be no. If my argument is correct, then there's probably some leakage. In all relations, macro-economic debt securities must also be considered how this is to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u108	We're close, but there's one thing I don't understand. You say it's not reasonable if I'm right and it's an amount in the order of 2.1 billion. I think it would be all the more reasonable if the municipalities were to be compensated for the sum of 2.1 billion. Their budgets also need to be rounded up, don't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u109	The reasoning is flawless. But then we will find ourselves in a completely different macroeconomic policy, because then it is a question of reviewing the distribution of public funds. That's not my move.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u110	Mr. Chairman. The bill we are discussing today is quite simple and clear. It includes the accelerated increase in the AOW age, which will not reach 67 years in 2023, but will be higher in 2021, and will also be higher in the years preceding that in a number of months than under current legislation. The main, if not the only, reason for the legislative proposal is to achieve savings in public expenditure over the medium term. This is a relatively small increase in the AOW age and a large amount of money for the government. Piece of cake, you'd say. However, it is not that simple for the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. The legislative proposal may be simple and clear, but the considerations that need to be made are not at all. In my speech, I will look at the factors that are relevant to us in this consideration. This concerns the reduction of public expenditure, employment and participation of older people and young people and intergenerational solidarity, the predictability of government and the income effects for different groups of people. Before passing through these factors, I would like to thank you for answering the questions raised by my group. In the second round, however, the Secretary of State gave some insight into the impact of the proposal on different groups of older people and the size of these groups. It can, of course, always be more precise and I therefore support Mr Hoekstra's call on us to do so. But for now, I would like to thank the Secretary of State and the officials who put a lot of work into it. For the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, reducing public spending is not an end in itself, nor is it an end in itself. For us, the main thing is that the public authorities can provide the right services to the citizens who need them and that the burden is shared fairly. In the case of savings on public expenditure, i.e. cuts, we will always ask the question: at the expense of what provision will this be done, who will suffer, the consequences will be shared fairly and what will be done with the saved budget? This legislative proposal is about medium-term savings. The savings are not necessary for the long-term sustainability of public finances, nor is the budget directly applicable to the budgets that this government is going to make, but in the period 2016 to 2023, it will yield occasional money: from 71 million in 2016 to 645 million in 2021; all in all, an amount of up to 3 billion euros. What will the saved money be used for? For maintaining provisions, for preventing cuts elsewhere, as lubricating oil for the upcoming tax reform, for additional investments in renewable energy or for the purchase of an additional JSF? Decision-making is not part of this legislative proposal. It is even a question of whether this decision will take place during this cabinet period. The fact that we don't know what the money saved is going to be used for may make the trade-off easier, but not necessarily easier. I come to employment and intergenerational solidarity. I would like to point out that my group also believes that the AOW age should be raised to 67, and further up on the further increase in life expectancy The non-increase in the AOW age would make the AOW priceless and overburdening younger generations. However, the question is whether this should also apply to this accelerated increase, which has a medium-term effect and does not contribute to intergenerational solidarity in the long term. Does it make sense to allow older people to work longer in a time of high unemployment? This question has been asked by many and has actually not been answered properly. In response to questions from the SP Group, the Secretary of State even states that displacement effects cannot be quantified in the short and medium term. However, the Secretary of State notes that the jobs from which older people retire are not the jobs in which young people enter. Whatever that may be, I can imagine a number of jobs where this may well be the case, such as bus driver, desk worker or worker in childcare services, even if the elderly are not replaced one by one by young people, there may be displacement or negative employment effects. Even if the jobs of the people who retire are not taken directly by young people, they are filled by other workers, whose jobs can be filled by others, whose jobs may be filled by young people. Does the Secretary of State have any idea how big this displacement effect, which apparently cannot be quantified, is about? Or is it a full-bodied cup of coffee? And is it true that this displacement also involves 'depleting', I am referring to the interrupting debate on this because if older people continue to work, others will receive benefits for a longer period of time? Is it correct that this gap has not been included in the calculations presented in the present legislative proposal? And can the Secretary of State also, without quantifying the displacement, indicate exactly what order of magnitude we are talking about in this road leak? I would also like to say that I doubt whether the leak is as large as Mr Reuten says. The State Secretary's latest replies show that only 16% of those whose AOW age is now being increased have an income from employment alone. So that's no more than 50%.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u111	I quoted the words of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u112	In the written questions relating to the first statement of reply, I asked how large the different groups are and I asked for this to be broken down into percentages. In response, the Secretary of State mentions that 16% of those subject to this law only have an income from employment. Anyway, we will await the Secretary of State's answer on this point. In addition to the possibility that the cuts achieved by the legislative proposal may be disappointing because the longer working of older people means that others will stay in benefits for longer, there is the social aspect. We live in a time when many young people, but also older people who are not yet at the age of AOW, are applying for a job three blows in order to find a job, while many elderly people aged 65-plus do not have to work if necessary. Is it then the right signal to say to those young people and younger elderly people: you should only be on the sidelines for a while, and to the older elderly: you must continue to work? Isn't intergenerational solidarity at the moment asking for solidarity rather than money? Does it not ask for the sharing of scarce employment with younger generations? We are struggling with this and would like to invite the Secretary of State to look into this further. I come to the predictability of the government; a point that many others have also mentioned. The legislative proposal which introduced the increase in AOW age to 67 in 2023 dates from the end of 2012. This bill caused a lot of unrest at the time. People have reoriented themselves on the basis of that law and have made new plans. They have not only adapted their dreams to this, but also their lives and their financial planning. Is it then decent if within three years of the last intervention the government again causes unrest in the lives of these elderly people? Asking him the question is answering him: it's not very decent. I hope the Secretary of State can acknowledge that, too. For us, whether the accelerated increase in the AOW age, although not decent, could nevertheless be acceptable, depends above all on the actual impact of the legislative proposal on the lives and income of older people. Unrest and perceived consequences are one thing; ultimately, they are the real effects. This brings me to the last factor, the income effects for different groups of people. Like others, we have received many e-mails from citizens who say they are affected by the bill. I note that very few people indicate exactly where the bottleneck is and why, for example, they are not eligible for the bridging regime. Many of the letters are also about the previous increase. This is logical in terms of the needs of individual citizens, but also in terms of the trade unions' and the Committee's reactions to the 65-plus-hole, there is no analysis of the actual effects and the main bottlenecks of this bill; something that one might expect from an interest organisation. We do not want to immediately conclude that it is not that bad. That is why we have tried to make the analysis of the effects ourselves, and that we have also asked detailed written questions about it, because we think it is important not to debate ghost images, but to discuss actual effects. These effects are completely different for different groups of older people and cannot therefore be compared. Only when we have a clear picture of the effects can we make a good assessment. On the basis of the information provided by the State Secretary, we conclude that the consequences for people who currently have a benefit other than a pre-retirement or equivalent are minimal: these benefits continue to reach the new AOW age. I'd like to get that confirmed. For workers covered by the legislative proposal, the accelerated increase means that they will have to work a few months longer. The financial burden for this is borne by employers, who, of course, benefit from the work provided. We do not consider this to be a problem in itself. We are dealing here with the employment aspect mentioned above in relation to current unemployment, as well as the issue of the reliable government: these older people have already had to work a few months longer, and we ask them to do so again now. Those who do not have their own income but live on a partner's income, go through this law, as far as we can see, not into income, but they have to wait a few months longer for their own extra income. This is annoying, but as far as we are concerned, although we can imagine that there may also be distressing situations in this group due to the lack of an additional income that was expected to occur. The largest group affected by the accelerated increase in the age of AOW consists of those with an early retirement or pre-retirement. From this group we also get by far the most e-mails from troubled citizens. This group is subject to a bridging arrangement, the operation of which has been extended thanks to the Klaver and Heerma movement. Thanks to this bridging scheme, single persons with an income of up to 200% or households with an income of up to 300% of the minimum wage can be partially compensated for income gap due to the increased AOW age. The Secretary of State states that people with a higher income than that income should be able to save for a few months' income gap. We can follow that reasoning in general. Our concern, too, is primarily with the people with the lowest incomes, who do not have the financial resources to save to bridge a few months' income gap. The question remains, of course, whether it is reasonable to once again confront those we have already faced with an income gap. That brings me to my very specific question. Not everyone who has an income below 200% and 300% of the minimum wage at the age of 64.5 is eligible for the bridging scheme. An additional condition stipulates that the income received by a person after his or her 65th from benefit or pension is deducted from the bridging allowance, and that no OBR is paid if that income exceeds €1,131 gross for single persons or €731 gross per month for people with a partner. This may mean that a person who receives a small benefit or pension after his or her 65th soon does not qualify for a benefit, especially if he or she has a non-earning partner. How should a person who has a minimum income for his or her 65th and then a benefit of €800 gross per month, together with a non-earning partner, cover six months, I ask the Secretary of State. Is it real that we are asking these people to live a few months of too little money on top of the months they have already had to cover under the already introduced law? Does the Secretary of State see the possibility of doing something specifically for this group by relaxing the relevant condition of the bridging scheme, for example by setting the limit for both single and cohabitants at €1131 gross and reducing their combined income? As has already been said, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance recognises the need to increase and even further increase the age of AOW, and we see the benefits that the proposal now before us has for medium-term public finances. However, my group also sees many shortcomings in the legislative proposal. For example, we wonder whether, given the current youth unemployment rate, it is the right time to increase the age of the AOW and whether it is appropriate to allow the same group already faced with the consequences of the law adopted three years ago to suffer again. Finally, we fear that the bridging regime does not provide sufficient compensation for all those with a minimum income. All these factors, and possible other points raised in today's debate, will be carefully weighed by my group in our final assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u113	Mr. Chairman. I'm replacing Senator Kok, who unfortunately is ill. In its relatively short existence since 1957, the AOW has increasingly become the target of a range of austerity measures, under the motto that the same AOW should be made sustainable for later, given the way in which it is financed in turn, with the implicit suggestion that in the future it would still have a substantial level of income provision for later generations. That's just the question. At the inclined level of the total pension building............................................................................................................................................................................... Forgotten seems convenient that, as said, the AOW is already much more often worn out. I mention in time order: the decoupling of the benefit by the frequent application of the WKA, the law linking with derogation option in better Dutch means this: the failure to maintain prosperity for decades of the benefit, the fiscalisation of the State contribution, the sustainability contribution by limiting the inflation correction, the abolition of the partner premium by 2015 and finally the increase of the AOW age to 67 years in 2021 and then the link to life expectancy after 2021. It is therefore expected that in the not too long term the AOW benefit will only be paid at 70 years of age or older. All in all, the AOW has been heavily surrendered for a long time. This, however, has long been offset by supplementary pensions, but this is not the case anymore. In the absence of historical awareness and in disregard of the overall context with the supplementary pension, it is now proposed to accelerate again, abruptly and shortly after the increase in the AOW age in 2012. My group considers this method to be an unprecedented opportunism, based solely on the simple argument that the treasury needs to be put in order. This would speed up the implementation of structural reforms if, in this case, the acceleration in a series of debt instruments already agreed in 2012 were justified. This would be a "policy choice." And to stay in the jargon: that means that I quote "a contribution may also be expected from this group." A cynical misconception, which ignores the fact that the group in question has not made a substantial contribution for a long time, as has just been argued. Can the Secretary of State please state clearly what this policy choice has been? Worse than the opportunism that this cabinet is not strange, the total lack of any kind of solid justification is. It is not only that once again the standard argument is taken out of the closet in order to meet the same easy target group, which surprises us to say the least, but it is above all the gross lack of substantive argument that the opportunistic choice must underpin in order to save some 3 billion. For the record, it should first be noted that the link to increased life expectancy is not a factor in this legislative proposal. Mr Reuten also argued this. This has already been taken into account in the previous AOW and pension directive age Act 2012 and therefore does not play a role here. What remains, then, is the bare argument that I quote: 'because of the economic situation and ageing population, social security expenditure is growing faster than GDP and there would be persistent deficits'. If we combine the general broadspeak to the AOW sec, then the story is a bit more nuanced. Recent CPB calculations in the report "Less Care for Ageing" show that the increase in AOW expenditure is under control. Moreover, the sustainability balance has now turned from a deficit to a surplus. Ageing is therefore no longer the problem. And even less if the calculated increase in taxes and premiums is taken into account. So what's the ratio for this bill? And because this bill in itself has no impact on the long-term sustainability of public finances and there is no structural budgetary impact, in fact there is a blow to the AOW with a time-limited one-off return of the built-in acceleration of 4.5 billion gross over the years 2016-2024. The PVV Group has no choice but to see the usefulness and necessity of this bill missing altogether. Each too easily appealing to the alleged state of public finances is completely flawed here. In this context, I would like to recall the fundamental criticism of the Council of State in its annual report of 2013: this cabinet is all too often forced into purely financial laws with unfounded claims; legislation as a wand for austerity, just to scrape money together and not on the basis of any idea of what a society should look like. It's just about easy gain. Budgetary closure. Because it's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u114	I am pleased to hear Mr Van Strien quote the Council of State. It was really about something else. It is perhaps appropriate to highlight, before the debate, that the Council of State has issued a blank final report on this bill. In other words, the Council of State fully endorses this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u115	I haven't heard a question, so I'm going to continue my speech. And how can that same cabinet now see itself faced with the luxury problem of how, in the context of the 2016 budget set-up, to distribute 6 billion? What happened to the credibility of this cabinet? In addition to the budgetary argument, the cabinet states that the accelerated age increase would be a "policy choice." However, what is the underlying policy choice for the implementation of this acceleration remains completely unclear. There is no evidence of any policy considerations. Even the most recent response is a repetition of dated platinums. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore: have alternatives been considered? On the other hand, my group can put forward some substantive arguments which call for a different conclusion than those which this cabinet so unthinkingly puts forward. The 2008 Bakker report, which played a major role in the previous increase in the AOW age in 2012, was already questionable at the time as a supporting reasoning for the primary increase proposal, but is completely obsolete at this time. The projected labour market shortages have not been achieved and, even more importantly, the position of older people in that labour market has only deteriorated. Unemployment under this category will only increase further with a corresponding income gap as a result of the shifting AOW age. And indeed, "for many elderly people there is no reason to celebrate," said Mr Asscher in a recent statement following yet another UWV barometer 50-plus. He can't be denied any sense of understatement. The claim that an increase in the age of AOW has a positive effect on the labour supply of older people is therefore ludicrous. How sad it is to note in this context that, at the same time, there is a legislative proposal that should make working after the age of AOW possible, now that working for that age is already problematic. Speaking of coherent policies. Where's the consistency? And it is equally sad to note in the explanatory memorandum that "the group of people who want to work after the AOW age is very small compared to the number of workers under the AOW age." The well-known open door. And how to deal with the large group of pre-retired people for whom the AOW-hole is much larger? As mentioned earlier, the relationship with the supplementary pension area has been kept out of the picture. The measures in the Witteveen framework have been considerably reduced. The longer-term perspective will, in the most optimistic scenario of an average build-up of 30 years, be no more than 40% of last-earned wages and, as has been the case for a decade, even lower in the case of lagging indexation. By the way, the average build-up of those 30 years has been declining for a longer time. And the Flexwet, which has already failed in advance, will certainly not contribute to any form of regular retirement. The new financial review framework has made indexation virtually impossible for the near future. All measures taken and the major National Pension Dialogue, which has now been completed, are de facto the prelude to a further dismantling of the pension structure. Is that what this is all about? On balance, it will be the young people who, at the end of the journey, will be faced with a dramatic fall in income from retirement, whatever their age. Against this background, the importance of a good basic pension has only increased, in starting date and in height. A reduction in the age of AOW would therefore be more reasonable. I'm gonna finish up. The PVV Group believes that once again in a short time under grateful use of dogmatic CPB assumptions, a politically forced further austerity is being carried out on the largest income source for older people. Remember that the supplementary pension currently averages only €600 to €700 gross per month and this amount will certainly fall substantially. Legal certainty has been exchanged for dubious budgetary policies. Reliability and consistency are very much to be desired in this cabinet. Too much speculation is being made on the knowledge that all the deterioration in the pension system will only fall into the citizens' wallet after years. A concern for later will have been the thought of the political passers-by, who are responsible for this kind of policy. Finally, it looks as if the AOW will be reduced to the Emergency old-age provision, which was the predecessor of the AOW in 1947. Back to square one, you might say. Perhaps the cabinet could take note of the memorable words that Minister Drees spoke in his defence in the House of Representatives, where he said that "there is dual concern in life: one is unemployment and the uncertainty of existence and the other is the fear of the old age on which many would have to live completely dependent." Nothing is less topical and less true this day. It is clear that my group cannot support this proposal at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u116	I would ask visitors to the public gallery to refrain from any sign of support or disapproval.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u117	Madam President. Since the introduction of the AOW in 1957, human life expectancy has increased by more than 5 years in our country and is expected to occur again over the next 45 years. So, in general terms, over a period of 100 years, average life expectancy has increased by 10 years. With the existing AOW system, we have an old age provision in our country which provides virtually every citizen with a minimum social standard. Moreover, the affordability of this system is under increasing pressure due to economic conditions and demographic developments, even though the majority of demographic developments have been foreseen for decades and have been able to calculate the effects early and to take appropriate measures. For example, an AOW Savings Fund was set up in 1998 with the aim of meeting the additional AOW expenditure resulting from ageing in the longer term. Twelve years later, the fund will be withdrawn without effective capacity and other ways will be sought to address the ageing problem, including by increasing the AOW age. All this calls for concrete measures and several steps have been prepared and taken in this area in recent years. The most recent proposal is the current legislative proposal which will accelerate the AOW age from 2016 to 66 years in 2018 and 67 years in 2021, after which the AOW age will be adjusted periodically to the increase in life expectancy, in steps of 3 months. However reasonable this increase seems from the knowledge of age trends, there are still a few questions to ask as to the application and implementation of the proposals. Many questions have been addressed in the preparatory work and have been adequately answered, for which we would like to thank the Secretary of State. On a single subject, we would like further clarification. For example, the Secretary of State writes in the reply that the government, when drawing up this bill, has considered the urgency of the budgetary problem and the many changes in legal certainty for people close to retirement. In addition to the many changes, they are also faced with a short preparation period, which very often leads to misunderstanding and irritation. What factors have been involved outside the budgetary perspective in the government's assessment, and to what extent have these factors been decisive, we wonder. Surely there must have been more important elements than just the view that a contribution can be expected from this group? Who is meant by this group? Are those those who retire in the next ten years, whether or not they are covered by a pre-retirement scheme? And does the Secretary of State consider that this group does not make a contribution in other areas, such as many citizens in our country, or perhaps even several contributions? They are also participating in the many cuts and cuts that have been made for the average citizen. Many of them already feel the effects of the non-indexation of the second pillar pension before the entry into force of a supplementary pension. So what's the point of this trade-off? I'd like an explanation from the Secretary of State. We in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats still wonder, even after previous answers to the written questions, what is the short-term effect of this increase in age on employment and unemployment? We can see from recent figures that there is relatively high unemployment among the over 50s, which also appears to be persistent, while unemployment, among other things, is beginning to decline due to the cautious economic recovery. At present, about a quarter of a million people over 45 years of age are unemployed at home, while this bill provides for older people to work longer. In the written preparation for this plenary debate, the government repeatedly points out that the accelerated increase does not have a structural effect on the displacement, as "the long-term demand for labour is determined by the supply of labour" and I quote "the long-term demand for labour." The fact that there has been a significant increase in the employment rate of women and older people over the past decades without this leading to the displacement of other groups in the labour market is not yet proof of this earlier statement. The increase in the employment rate of older people and women occurred in a rapidly growing labour market and over a period of several decades. Does the government consider that this theoretical approach also applies in the circumstances under which there is hardly any growth and where the timeframe is several years? If so, when has the government reached the point where unemployment will be virtually nil? I would like to get a detailed explanation of this, with quantitative data on the displacement effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u118	I see you want to interrupt, Mr Reuten. In short, because we are limited in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u119	Do I understand that the VVD Group is also concerned about the possible displacement of this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u120	To this extent, we are concerned that it is not entirely clear to us, and I have made this clear to you in the interruption of your speech. For us, it's still a big question mark. Madam President. There is also a relationship between the objective of this bill and the legislative proposal that promotes working after the AOW age. There is also a relationship with the second pillar pension. Has the government considered the possibility, as with the second pillar pension, of diversifying the AOW? At what time could we expect proposals on this? If no, why not, while variablization can contribute to longer working after the AOW age, or to make the accelerated increase in the AOW age more acceptable. I have already said that there is discontent and irritation among many of our fellow citizens involved in this issue. In our opinion, this has a lot to do with the amount of mutations in this dossier, but certainly also with the limited preparation time given for all these changes. There is broad agreement that a five-year preparation period for the changes taking place on the basis of the change in life expectancy is considered reasonable. In its judgment of 18 June 2004, the Central Board of Appeal also states that there are no obstacles for the legislator to restrict benefits already granted, provided that a reasonable transitional period is provided. In the present case, a period of six months is referred to as reasonable. On this basis, the Government then states in the reply that if this bill is adopted in good time, followed by its entry into force on 1 July next, a period of six months can be used for extending the AOW age by one month. However, this extension is the second extension within a few years and results in a total extension of six months compared to the original 65-year-old age. With this increase in mutations, is there still a reasonable period of time? It is even more painful for the age group born in the period 1 July 1951-1 August 1951. They are faced with an extension of four months, in addition to the five months already established. They must therefore make a drastic change in their planning within 1.5 years. With regard to this pace, we regret that this bill was not tabled two years earlier, which would have led to a better distribution. In our opinion, this issue deserves better communication and more attention to the desired consistency. Therefore, co-citizens concerned should be informed as soon as possible about the insights and developments in life expectancy and its consequences for the AOW age. It is already clear that the AOW age should be increased by three months in 2022 on the basis of life expectancy and that further increases are likely to take place in the years thereafter. That is why we should be communicating on this issue at this stage. It would be even clearer if it were already decided if the CBS forecasts on life expectancy were known. In our opinion, waiting five years before the moment in question does not lead to greater clarity. We would also like to get the opinion of the Secretary of State on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u121	I call Mr Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u122	Mr. Chairman. With the bill we are discussing today, an acceleration is being introduced at the rate at which the AOW age is increased as a result of the AOW and Pension Orientation Age Act, the VAP Act. Compared to the timetable of that Act, the AOW age will be increased by one month from 2016. Furthermore, from 2022 onwards, the AOW age shall be adjusted periodically to reflect the increase in average remaining life expectancy at the age of 65, in steps of three months per year. Unlike the VAP Act, this legislative proposal is not about the long-term sustainability of the AOW provision, but about a medium-term austerity measure. However, the actual and much-needed connection to increased life expectancy is achieved earlier, with also significant budgetary effects. According to the government, the bill achieves a cumulative savings of €2.9 billion over the period 2016-2024. In addition, tax and premium revenues increase by EUR 770 million cumulatively over this period. Moreover, these are not structural budgetary effects, because even without this measure, the VAP Act already links the age of AOW to life expectancy. This is also matched by additional expenditure under the extended bridging scheme for people already taking part in an early retirement or pre-retirement scheme and alternative income support measures. All in all, the measure makes a very substantial contribution to the budgetary problems facing the cabinet when it took office in 2012. There are at least two questions. The first is whether, in the light of the favourable development of public finances, the urgency of the proposed measure has not lapsed, as suggested by several political groups in the written consultation with the Secretary of State. Mr Reuten has also asked the other groups very explicitly. That is clearly not the case. The savings made by this legislative proposal form part of a very comprehensive set of reversals and burdens that were necessary to restore some manageability of public finances lost out by the financial and economic crisis. It is irresponsible and unfair, as a fragile recovery is taking place, to happen not to implement the last part of this package. A second question is whether it is justified to use the AOW age, which was already adapted by the VAP Act, once again to achieve budgetary objectives. On request, the Secretary of State states in the reply that the cabinet had to consider the urgency of the budgetary problem and the legal certainty for people who are close to retirement. He also stated that the problems were so extensive that a contribution could be expected from this group. That's painful, but it can be defended. After all, much too long has been waiting to adapt the AOW age to life expectancy. As far as we are concerned, that is not a discussion. Linking the AOW age to life expectancy is essential to maintain intergenerational solidarity in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u123	Mr Reuten, a very brief interruption, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u124	Adapting the AOW age to life expectancy does not do this bill. It is a temporary measure for which you could also find other means, such as a minor increase in some kind of tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u125	I would like to ignore the lightness with which Mr Reuten talks about other measures. This may be a matter for the SP, but that does not seem to me to be a responsible way of dealing with the budget. I would particularly like to touch on his first point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u126	Can Mr Postema say that he himself is concerned with the legal uncertainty for these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u127	Mr Reuten, interruptions are intended to raise a question and this is a communication. Please continue with your speech, Mr Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u128	I would first like to comment on the first part, in which I listened to a question. That is the question to what extent this legislative proposal only achieves a budgetary effect and does not address the issue of life expectancy. I think that we here in the Chamber, perhaps not unanimous, but well-behaved, have heard Mr Reuten say that in the first term, too, we believe that a link between the age of AOW and life expectancy is necessary. The question is, when are you gonna do that? You can differ on that, but that necessity was widely felt. If this Chamber now determines by majority what the difference between the age of AOW and the growth of life expectancy is, it is also fair to bridge that gap as quickly as possible. That's what happens with this law. We therefore find this fair, however incredibly annoying and often painful for this particular group. After all, if you don't do it now, you're gonna push the problem out for you and other generations are gonna pay the bill for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u129	I kind of feel like we've read a different bill. It is not the case that this legislative proposal mainly provides for speeding up the steps to reach that age limit of 67 rather than age-related ones. Nor are the savings of public finances structuralally, but above all occasional ones, over a number of years. I understand Mr Postema's reasoning, but it is his reasoning. I wonder if his arguments for this law stand up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u130	I'll leave that to Mrs. De Boer. I'll explain it again. If we find together that an increase in the AOW age is needed because of increased life expectancy, it would in theory be best to deal with this immediately. That's the most solidarity. However, there have been delays. The long run-up to the treatment of this law has also taken us longer, as has already been suggested. However, the longer you do about this, the harder it will be, even when it comes to occasional savings, on the generations other than the target group affected by this bill. That's the reasoning I'm making here. Each generation receives an AOW pension in this way for about the same length. We need to get to that situation quickly. Rather, it is important to check whether there is sufficient time to prepare and whether there is adequate transitional measures. The preparation time, which is more than six months, does not last, especially for the acceleration of 1 January 2016 by one month. For the subsequent accelerations, the preparation time increases accordingly with the years in which it takes place. Now all this doesn't come out of the sky. With the conclusion of the government agreement in October 2012, it was already clear that the cabinet intended to accelerate the increase in the AOW age. Here, too, there has been extensive communication from the public authorities and also from employers' and employees' organizations. It is also important to note that, in the opinion of the Central Appeals Board of 18 June 2004, a six-month period is in accordance with Article 1, First Protocol of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the ECHR. This would involve making changes to current benefit rights, which is clearly not the case here. Finally, it is worth noting that the Council of State, which issued a blank opinion on the legislative proposal, did not see any reason to comment on this point either. With regard to the transitional measures, my group welcomes the fact that the Secretary of State has wished to adopt two motions in the House of Representatives, both of which relate to the bridging regulation which entered into force under the VAP Act on 1 January 213. This scheme entitles people who have already taken part in an early retirement, pre-retirement or similar scheme from 1 January 2013 and have not been able to prepare themselves for the AOW age increase to a bridging which is comparable in terms of benefit standard to the AOW. The social agreement of April 2013 already agreed to extend and open this scheme to single persons with an income of up to 200% of the statutory minimum wage and up to 300% of the statutory minimum wage for married and cohabitants. Furthermore, the above-mentioned motion-Heerma and -Klaver adopted by the government ensures that the bridging scheme AOW is also opened to people who go with VRS or pre-pension between 1 January 2013 and 1 July 2015 and that the scheme is extended until 1 January 2023. For the target group mentioned, an appropriate transitional measure or, if you like, a back-up measure is thus provided for. The question is what are the effects of the acceleration for the elderly who were born after 30 September 1950 and before 1 January 1957 and who do not benefit from VRS or pre-retirement. A large part of them will work for one or a few months longer. This is usually also possible, not least because it is increasingly common to retire around the date of reaching the AOW age. The collective agreements also provide for this as a rule. For unemployed older people in the target group, the regular income support provisions, such as the WW, the Supplements Act, the IOW, the IOAW and the Participation Act, apply as a back-up. For each of these provisions, it is laid down by law that benefits are to be paid up to the age of AOW, with the benefit on the basis of the WW that, of course, there must be sufficient entitlement to benefits. But that is already the case. As far as my group is concerned, there is one question left. My group notes that there have been two legislative changes on the age of AOW within a period of three years, with a number of changes to the cabinet and the social agreement leading up to various variants being reviewed. This is not desirable for our society, particularly for the target group concerned. My group therefore considers it essential that there should be peace within the AOW domain. The link to life expectancy and the current accelerated increase has reached the limit. Can the Secretary of State confirm this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u131	A brief question, Mr Reuten. It's a really short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u132	Suppose there is indeed a displacement of potential employment for existing unemployed people and this means additional welfare benefits for municipalities. Does Senator Postema agree, as Senator Backer has also pointed out, that the municipal fund should be compensated for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-3.u133	The Labour Party has a substantially different approach to this issue. Already in our election programme, but also in the period after that, we have done a lot of work on older people's work. Look at the measures taken by the current cabinet in this area. This is precisely about keeping older workers in work and getting unemployed older people to work. The mobility bonus and the no-risk-WW are measures that aim to get 55-plussers to work. In these discussions we are not talking as such about displacement and not about an automatic increase in the Community fund. We are also concerned about leaving work at the forefront of this target group. That is the central position of the Labour Party when it comes to this issue.
