ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u1	Despite the change of the President, the rules of the game are still the same: there is a two-minute speaking time, including the tabling of motions. We're a little behind. So everything we catch up to is taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. We're gonna do our best. The usurer's policy file keeps picking up the slack. The Minister has already concluded with us that this will take some time, given the complexity of the problem. This is without prejudice to the fact that steps can be taken to speed things up. We welcome the development that secret settlements are a thing of the past. That is a good development. In the AO we asked the Minister if an independent supervisor could be given a role in the assessment of settlements taking place in this file. The Minister replied by letter that, in principle, the supervisor has no role in the assessment of an agreement between two private parties. However, this is not quite what the CDA Group meant. We are concerned that there can be a transparent and fair balance for the consumer who has entered into or wants to enter into a settlement. The fact that the amount of money can now be made public does not mean that you can also assess whether the amount is fair. For this purpose, it is important that the calculations underlying the settlement amounts become transparent. There are insurers who do this and who show transparently what percentage of the investment is suitable as compensation, for example. We want this to happen everywhere, because only then can people claim fair compensation. That is why we are tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the usury policy dossier has not yet been completed;]] [[whereas transparency on the method of calculating settlement amounts is the only way to enable consumers to know that they are entitled to what they are entitled to;]] [[Calls on the Government to engage in discussions with the insurance sector and to agree on how the method of calculating the settlement arrangements for investment insurance can be made transparent in all cases;]] [[invites the Government to make this mandatory by law if no agreement can be reached,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32013-111]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. During the general consultation we discussed in detail small insurers, for which new rules will be introduced. The VVD would like these rules to be evaluated two years after their introduction. On this point, we would like a commitment from the Minister. In addition, the Minister has promised to raise the exemption limits. That is a good thing; thank you for that. In the AO Rule pressure, which will soon be on the agenda, we will come back to other exemption limits within the financial sector. I'm filing a motion on mutual insurance. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that:]] [[Solvency Basic makes it impossible for small-scale parties to insure their risks among themselves, unless they meet the requirements for insurers while they are not insurers;]] [[these parties will therefore have to meet substantial requirements (such as a minimum of €200,000 buffer), supervisory costs and administrative burdens;]] [[This means, for example, that farmers, inventors or citizens in small-scale groups are no longer able to re-insure each other effectively;]] [[Whereas:]] [[the public authorities should continue to give people the opportunity to share risks among themselves in small-scale projects;]] [[This will continue to increase competition for small-scale projects with insurers;]] [[calls on the Government to continue the discretionary power of DNB for small insurers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Aukje de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32013-112]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u4	We believe that mutual insurance fits in well with the participatory society advocated by the cabinet. We are always open to considering how DNB can implement this in a good and responsible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mr. Chairman. Last time I spoke about usury policies and asked how many non-building policies there are left. The Minister referred to a report from the AFM that had yet to be issued. That report has been published by now, but I have still not been able to find the simple answer to the question of how many non-building policies there are left. I'd like to get an answer to that question. We are still talking about this report, but I note that there is still little confidence in the recovery recommendations. That does not surprise me, but they are free of charge but not independent. I keep saying: both are necessary, free of charge and independent. If one of the insurers seems to be able to do so, I do not see why other insurers cannot do so. Last time, in the context of compensation, we talked about the settlements and the unequal treatment that sometimes results from them. I understood that the Minister would consider whether the supervisors could play a role in this. I wonder what he can say about that now. It is not clear to me what the timetable of the IMVO insurance sector is and what it includes. I refer, for example, to weapons and human rights. Last week a debate was held with Minister Ploumen on this subject, but it did not become clear at that time either. Will the Minister be able to clarify things now? I have seen that some colleagues have asked questions about drivers who have been sent away from Vivat. I am a little concerned about that. Last time only Gerard van Olphen was gone, but by now there has been a whole exodus of board members. From the media the image emerges that the Chinese Anbang there is working like an elephant in the porcelain cabinet. I'd like to hear from the Minister what's going on. I hope he doesn't call on Article 1,89 of the Wft again, which means he can't say anything, because this is something to worry about. I'd like to know more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mr. Chairman. These are the last few minutes and about the end of the debates in the House of Representatives on the future of insurers. We had a hearing, a report and a reaction from the cabinet and then we had a debate in the Chamber. The Group of the Party of Labour's concerns about insurers in the Netherlands are, however, unabated. There's been a discussion about Delta Lloyd's capital position. Mr Merkies already asked for attention for Reaal and Anbang. I believe that for the time being there will still be uncertainty about the future earning model and that the insured in the Netherlands will also be in uncertainty for some time because it is not clear what the sector is like. We have not yet found an answer, and that is not easy either. For the sake of short, I agree with Mr Ronnes' comment on the transparency of usury policy arrangements. Insurers have said that they will make it public in the future, but why not do it for the past? Why do they not inform the whole of the Netherlands of the solutions they have made, the underlying considerations and the components of the costs that have been compensated? The Group of the Party of European Socialists is in favour of this. The Minister will undoubtedly respond to the motion, but I would have liked to ask him the same question. Finally, I will table a motion on the privacy of insured persons. The financial sector is developing rapidly and is making great use of ICT. This applies both to insurers and to banks. We are discussing insurers today and therefore submit them in the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that insurers explore the possibilities of influencing the behaviour of insured persons by offering them a premium discount in exchange for information exchange;]] [[Whereas this may damage the privacy of insured persons, particularly as the risks of sharing private data for insured persons are difficult to assess;]] [[calls on the Government, after hearing the College for Protection of Personal Data, to consider how to ensure the privacy of insured persons and to report to the House of Representatives on how to do so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer and Mr Oosenbrug. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32013-113]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u8	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). If any pieces have to be delivered in the meantime, we will see them appear on their own.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u9	Mr. Chairman. As Mr Nijboer said, this is the end of a wider and wider debate on the future of the insurance sector in the Netherlands. I share his view that we are not free from concern about this. The picture is very different, which in turn has a lot to do with the extent to which insurers themselves have already taken steps towards restructuring and recapitalisation. You could say that insurers are in different stages of that process. So there is every reason to talk about this and look at the legal framework that is needed in case of failure. No questions have been asked about this at the moment, so we have exchanged enough. Mr Ronnes once again called for attention to be paid to the usury policies, and in particular to the arrangements that have been made. I replied in a letter after the AA. On the one hand, I referred to the formal and legal aspect of the fact that settlements are private-law agreements between two parties, which voluntarily enter into them and may decide among themselves that they communicate in public or that the agreement remains secret. I don't want to go in there. In the debate, I did say that these settlements, and in particular the many questions surrounding them, could perhaps stand in the way of an accelerated settlement. They contribute to it, but they might get in the way too. In particular, secrecy could stand in the way of an accelerated process of dealing with these usury policies. In that debate, I called on insurers to be as transparent as possible. Insurance companies agreed to that, too. In my view, Mr Nijboer asked whether this could be done with the existing arrangements. If the consumers concerned so wish, they can do so also with existing settlements, if the counterparty has no objection to them. The insurers have also indicated that. This could therefore also apply to old decisions. Now that this has been promised, I also assume that it will be done in good faith. In the motion I read "and now I have to be very precise about the request to "converse with the insurance sector and agree on how the method of calculating the settlement arrangements for investment insurance can in all cases become transparent'. Well, the sector has promised to make the settlements public. I am also asked: 'If no agreement can be reached on this matter, make it legally mandatory'. I have a tendency to discourage this motion right now. I have made this appeal to the insurance sector, but of course I have done so from the point of view of private law agreements. We have therefore taken a positive view of this and have said that it will be made public, if possible and if necessary with retroactive effect. I think it is undesirable to say now that it should be regulated legally if it does not happen. This is quite far-reaching, because the agreements in question are, once again, private law agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u10	You said you had a tendency to dissuade. I understand you're dissuading this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u11	I'm gonna dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u12	We regret that, because we are still getting signals that banks are dealing with it in very different ways. That is why I urge the Minister to reconsider consulting with the banking sector in order to see if they will not be able to deal with this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u13	In this case, it is insurance companies. At the moment, I have no reason to sit down with insurers. It shouldn't be some kind of continuous talking circus. I have made an appeal and they have responded in a manner that I think is correct. Now the question is whether it really is going to happen. Mr Ronnes is hearing signals about this. I haven't heard any signals about that. Let's give that a chance. The CDA is always very much in favour of the emergence of solutions between parties in civil society and that the government does not always have to regulate this. I am almost in this CDA tradition, I think, when I say that we should give parties the opportunity to continue along this path and not immediately threaten with legal intervention by the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u14	Mr Ronnes, I didn't want to allow you to have a second interruption, but now that you're being provoked, you're getting that right. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u15	Is the Minister prepared to give a deadline for the moment when he asks the insurance sector when he will receive this feedback? So...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u16	The question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u17	No, I can't say that. We will see how this is further unfolding, but again: I really need to be exactly in this. It's about an agreement in civil law between two private parties. The CDA suggests that we can enforce that it becomes transparent and that through law I have to make transparent what is the underlying method of calculation in that mutual agreement. That really is an intervention in civil law, in a private law agreement, and that cannot be done. I think we should be very satisfied. The insurers have, I think, reacted constructively. They have said that they see the point and also want to get rid of the atmosphere of secrecy and secrecy. Many parties believe that it would benefit them if those settlements were made public. Then they can see if they could derive rights from it. I'd be fine with that. That's a promise now. Give that a chance now!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u18	Mr Ronnes, an opinion on the motions is not a licence for a new discussion. I would ask the Minister to proceed with the motion in part No. 911.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u19	Mr. President, may I...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u20	No, I'm clear, aren't I? You asked a question twice about this. The Minister is very clear. You can use the advice to determine your voice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u21	The motion in part No. 112 has been tabled by Mrs De Vries and concerns the small mutual insurers. These may be small mutual insurers in the number of members or participants, but the amounts insured may be very large. So there's really a big risk there. For example, if a farm burns down, parties may then expect the full amount for the new farm to be paid by the mutual insurer. So we are talking about a serious situation with a big impact. This means that DNB has said that it is important to have supervision of this. At the same time, we continue to look at the proportionality of regulation. The motion actually calls for the old regime to be maintained. That is really against the advice of DNB. I wouldn't be for that. Again, there really is a big difference between the small number of members of such an insurer and the size of the impact when the damage occurs, of what happens if the expectations cannot be met and what the consequences are for a company. From that point of view, I must discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u22	Do you have an explanatory question, Mrs De Vries?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u23	It is of course a tradition that has been in the Netherlands for a long time. In practice, people also know exactly what they are getting into when they get into it. Can the Minister indicate how many times it has gone very wrong in the last 100 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u24	I can't answer that question out of the loose wrist. If DNB tells us that if it wants to be able to monitor this seriously, it must be regulated in this way, then I take that advice extremely seriously. If Mrs De Vries really wants to see that question answered, we can, of course, ask the supervisor and come back to it in writing, but I find it really irresponsible to put DNB's advice aside too easily.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u25	The answer is clear, isn't it, Mrs De Vries? I also said we should all watch the clock. If we repeat the discussion every time now, that is not going to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u26	Then I would like to make a point of order. We have not run so far; that was because of the predecessors. I would now like to put a supplementary question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u27	Well, one question, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u28	I have indicated that there is also the possibility that, in addition to the current situation, DNB can also look at how it can be done in a different responsible way. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u29	I would like to say to Mrs De Vries that I will once again enter into consultation with DNB on whether there are any other possible modalities for meeting the supervisory pressure.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Perhaps it could then hold the motion pending that further written response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u30	I'm gonna see if that's gonna lead to action right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u31	Then I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u32	At the request of Mrs Aukje de Vries, I propose her motion (32013, No. 112). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u33	Mrs De Vries then asked whether the Solvency Basic regime could be evaluated after two years. It wasn't foreseen, but it makes sense. Solvency II will be evaluated at European level in 2018. I propose to join and also evaluate the Solvency Basic regime in 2018. I would like to say that to Mrs De Vries. I'll move on to the third motion. Oh, no, I have to answer some of Mr Merkies' questions first, otherwise I would forget about them. Mr Merkies asked about the number of non-build-up investment insurances. The total number of investment insurances is still 2.7 million by mid-2015. On the percentage that is non-building, we do not have actual figures. That is why Mr Merkies has still not received an answer to that question. We know it was asked out once by the AFM. This led to the figure that there were 3.7 million running policies on 1 January 2013. Of these, 7% were non-building. The AFM then focused all its attention on its activation. 99% of non-building policies have now been activated. However, this does not mean that these policies no longer exist; they may have been extended or adapted, or there may have been no response after repetition. What can we do best now? We have imposed an obligation on insurers to report on individual performance in this area, but in this respect I think that the AFM should ask about the whole of the insurers, otherwise it is business-confidential information that companies will not want to disclose themselves. So next year I want the AFM to ask the insurers again about the number of non-building policies that still exist. Then the Chamber will receive an aggregated figure on the total number, so that it can set it against the figure we had, from 1 January 2013.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u34	What is the target date for providing this information to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u35	I really need to talk to the AFM about that. I now come to a question that Mr Merkies has asked several times. I'm looking for a solution to deliver that figure, but I need to check with the AFM when that's possible. I'll let the room know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u36	I'd love to. I'm asking because it's easy if we know when to expect information. That's the habit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u37	I understand that, but I'm already improvising, as you can see. At this point, I have to ask for a respite.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u38	It can always be harder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u39	Mr Merkies also asked about the role of the supervisor in settlement. I have responded to that in the debate on the Ronnes motion on item No. 111. His next question was about the timetable for the consultation on a framework for corporate social responsibility in the financial sector and what is in it. I do not have that information with me now, so I suggest that I, together with the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, who is also involved, inform the Chamber by letter about the progress of that process. In doing so, we will address at least two issues: the timetable and how broad the framework is going to be. Mr Merkies also asked about VIVAT and the exodus of directors. VIVAT has been sold. It is now a completely private company again, it has been recapitalised and a restructuring is taking place. Apparently, that also has human consequences. For me, the company is just under the supervision of the Dutch Bank. The Nederlandsche Bank also makes arrangements with the owner, Anbang, about the composition of the management. This is of course mainly about quality: there must be sufficient knowledge and experience, also knowledge and experience with the Dutch insurance sector. Along that line, we secured that. I can't keep dealing with and commenting on changes within the company. I'm not gonna do that. It is now just a private company, it meets all legal requirements and it is under the supervision of the Nederlandsche Bank, also as regards the quality of directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u40	On the one hand, I can imagine that, but on the other hand, we hear reports about the entire administration that is running away. That's a matter of concern, isn't it? I can imagine the Minister's concern for this, too. Then there must be something going on with that company.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u41	There's something going on with that company, too. That company was incredibly bad shape. We are sufficiently aware of that. More than a billion extra capital has been invested to keep the company alive. So, yeah, there's something going on at that company. Mr Merkies should not be surprised that the new owner, who has had to put so much money into it, will make a number of interventions. That's how I look at it. I dissect that certainty from the fact that the Dutch Bank is watching, including the composition of the board.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u42	I understand. Of course, this has a long history. Mr Van Olphen has been specially placed here, perhaps also a little with the social interest in mind. If not only he but also others are put aside, I wonder what's going on here. I'm not getting enough clarity on that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u43	Mr Merkies will have to accept that it is a private company. It's not in the hands of the state anymore. It complies with all legal requirements and is supervised. In the Financieele Dagblad you can read a lot about administrative complications in companies in the Netherlands, but I cannot justify this. Finally, I come to the third motion, the motion in part No. 113 members of Nijboer and Oosenbrug on the privacy of insured persons. In the motion a concern is expressed about premium discount in exchange for data exchange. This may damage the privacy of insured persons, given the risks associated with it. The motion asks the government, after hearing the College for Personal Data Protection, to consider how the privacy of insured persons can be guaranteed and to inform the Chamber accordingly. I'd like to be willing to do that. I understand the point. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-09-tweedekamer-5.u44	The votes on the motions will take place next Tuesday. I see that we can continue with the report of the written consultation on research into increasing the number of organisations of public interest in a single effort.
