ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u1	I am happy to give the floor to the Secretary of State for his first-term reply. He indicated his desire to respond on the basis of a number of small blocks: a brief general introduction, community care, the implementation of reforms and, finally, drink and drugs. If the interruptions can be done a bit at the end of each block, it will help the progress of this sitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their first contribution, not least Mrs Voortman for the fine words about the agreement with the Indian Platform. That file, like many of you, is close to my heart. In my turn, I would like to thank the Chamber for dealing with this dossier. I think that we have been able to take a significant step together for many people. I would indeed like to divide my story into a number of cubes. First, I would like to give a general introduction to the state of play. Then I would like to discuss the quality of the nursing homes, the support at home by municipalities, the care of the neighbourhood and the implementation. Finally, I have a block about booze and drugs. Speaking of which, that reminds me of a song, but we'll get to that later. What is the state of the reform? That you can just talk to someone about how things are at home and what support you need instead of an indication circus. That the neighborhood nurse can again simply do what he or she has to do and come home to provide medical care. That if it is no longer at home, it is also at home in a nursing home as much as possible and there the quality of life you were used to is taken into account. They are essentially simple goals that we want to achieve. Care must adapt to the people rather than the other way around. Some spokesmen have already mentioned it: it requires cooperation and trust, between professionals and healthcare institutions, buyers and financiers. It also requires more space and trust for professionals to do what needs to be done for people. Over the last few years, we have tried to look for this cooperation in the development of legislation and then in the shaping of it in and with the Chamber. Now we are in the implementation phase, although 2015 is in fact still a transitional year. During this period, we need to find practical solutions to problems and bottlenecks that arise. In recent months of 2015, and also in this debate, much has been said about all changes in long-term care. Those changes have been underway for ten months now. That is just far too short to have a final judgment on how things are going. For some topics it will be a process of several years. In those ten months, a lot of people have worked hard to ensure continuity of care where it was needed and manage all changes, by working with new parties, by setting up district teams, by entering into new contracts and simply by giving good care to the people who need them. For my part, I would like to focus now and in the coming period on having as realistic a picture as possible of the state of affairs as possible, not too rosy and not too gloomy. Because I, too, am impressed by the ability of those who work in care and support to seize the many changes as an opportunity to provide care in a new way. I have been in the country over the last few months to talk to clients, carers and professionals in the workplace and to see for myself how the new practice is forming. I have seen many good initiatives and met people, from Zwolle to Gorredijk, from Woerden to Vlissingen, but I also see that things sometimes go wrong or not good enough. I also see that all changes can bring uncertainty for people. If someone loses their job because of cuts or their number of hours of domestic help is falling, then of course you shouldn't come up with: be a little positive about those changes. That is why it is so important to keep looking for the nuance in the coming period. That is why it is so important not to use big words about what is going on so well or about how bad things are going on. Good examples need to be disseminated, and problems and bottlenecks need to be identified and addressed. As far as I am concerned, the reforms in long-term care have been launched with three major issues in mind. First of all, the fact that people are staying at home longer and longer, requires a different way of organising long-term care. It has been said a few times: in 1980, 150 000 people lived in a nursing home and in 2010 there were 84 000 while the number of 80-plussers doubled in the same period. When people go to an institution, there is often a heavier question of care. I was in Alphen with a 90-year-old widower who wanted to stay home. There was a lot to think about, but that guy had really thought about the things he needed, like a scooter. He and his children had made a kind of combination of professional care and informal care to support him. I know, of course, that this does not apply to everyone, but it does illustrate how many people are involved in the question of how they can stay independent for as long as possible. Care must adapt to the changing needs of people. Take more account of personal needs and circumstances, more space for community care and more attention to the quality of nursing homes. The second major issue is the affordability of long-term care. It was under pressure. There are increasing numbers of elderly people who will have heavier care questions. People are already paying a lot of attention. I want care to be affordable and accessible in the future, too, and perhaps just for people without a big wallet. In order to control the costs of long-term care, cuts have indeed been introduced, but let us also give a realistic picture here. Long-term care expenditure under the Long-Term Care Act goes from 17.9 billion in 2015 to 18.5 billion in 2018. The part that is included in the Health Insurance Act goes from 3.4 billion in 2015 to 4 billion in 2018. Expenditure under the WMO will go from 3.54 billion in 2015 to 3.57 billion in 2018. Yes, there are cuts, yes, they sometimes hurt, but let's not pretend that long-term care is being broken down, because that's not true. The third major task is to guarantee the quality of life of our elderly. Ensuring that quality is more than just caring. Loneliness is only partially combatable with three hours of care. Maybe the other 21 hours are much more important. I want more attention to be paid to the value of care and volunteering, but also just more attention to each other. Not a society in which you live side by side, but an engaged caring society. Last summer I met a special supermarket manager who is very involved with his clients suffering from dementia; Mrs Faber already mentioned it. The manager himself has experienced how important it is that dementia is recognized and just turned to action himself. He trained all his 100 employees in four weeks to recognise dementia, so that everyone who goes shopping there feels comfortable and can be safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u3	The Secretary of State is waving away the problems that exist in long-term care and home care, and he does so by magicalizing figures and saying that long-term care expenditure is increasing, in the sense of "how to cut costs?'. However, it is about people's claims. It is true that 40% has been cut on home care, 25% on daily spending and 15% on youth care and so on. And it's about people's claims, isn't it? Does the Secretary of State agree with me that the starting point should be that people should have the care they need and that the money should follow the need?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u4	This is exactly what I'm talking about. Mr Van Gerven began to say that the Secretary of State dismissed the problems. I have just made a whole speech about the fact that we should not take each other's measure in terms of whether everything is going well or bad, but that we should look at real problems and bottlenecks, that we should spread the good examples and that we should find out about the problems. I said there were cuts. I think they were also needed to keep the future of long-term care affordable. There are sometimes difficult choices, but we are on the road together to how we can make long-term care for the future sustainable and sustainable. Indeed, in the case of domestic aid, we have said: would it not be good to look at what people can do more themselves and what we can do with their environment in order to ensure that the heavier care stays out of the wind? Those are choices you have to make. If you don't, then taking care of people without a big wallet is gonna be unreachable and priceless, and I just don't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u5	The Secretary of State announces a VVD story here. Care would no longer be affordable. How is it that the cabinet has $5 billion left over for other cases, exclaiming $5 billion? With this structural amount, the cuts in long-term care could be completely reversed. It's the principle that matters to me. If the Secretary of State agrees with the principle that the money should follow the need, would it not have been better to assume the need for home care, daily spending, community care and so on? Then we could have looked at how best to organise it. Finally, we could add to the resources needed for this, so that it can be properly organised without people losing their right to all these facilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u6	I wouldn't want to use the term "shouting" if we use $5 billion to make work possible for people, to maybe make it a little easier in the wallet. That seems very social to me. In the Wmo we ask municipalities to make suitable arrangements for everyone, including the duty for municipalities to talk to people to see what they need and then to come to a provision. Actually, I think that's very social. If we bring the district care into the Health Insurance Act and let it be a claim, so that people are entitled to community care and there is always good care, then I think that is very social. We have a long-term care law, which we say you can go to an institution if it no longer goes home. Then people have a right to such a place in an institution. That is what we are giving ourselves further impetus to. Actually, I think that's very social. We may differ on how it is organised, but I really cannot say that this is not a social policy. We certainly want to ensure this further towards the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u7	The Secretary of State's story appeals to me when he says that we must be realistic and pragmatic. I have also mentioned this several times in my contribution. But it is important that we also tell the honest story. The Secretary of State says that caring for people with dementia is important. The other side is that too little case management dementia is currently being bought in. How does the Secretary of State feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u8	Let us try to find the nuance on this point too. We have found together that dementia care and case management dementia are part of the district care claim. In practice, this is designed in different ways, sometimes with case managers dementia and sometimes with specialised district nurses who are dementia experts. We have agreed with the health insurance companies that we must move towards a much more structural way of financing dementia care, sometimes over the fences. Let us ensure that, in 2015 and 2016, we have a kind of transition period in order to achieve this type of dementia care in a structural way. Sometimes that leads to different choices. I've seen places where both the neighborhood nurse and the case manager dementia came along and then they choose who does it. I will be very careful to ensure that dementia care is well protected during the transitional period. In consultation with the district nurses, case managers and health insurance companies, I want to come up with more structural funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u9	To be honest, I don't care very much how it's organized, it's about caring for people with dementia. The Secretary of State states that it can also be organised in a different way, for example through specialist care, but it is currently under-buyed. I refer, for example, to intensive child care. I ask the Secretary of State not only to pay attention to it, but also to inform the Chamber whether enough of this specialised care is being purchased. We share that. Ultimately, it's about the people who need it getting the right care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u10	We agree on that. We will have to ensure that it is done in practice. I think it is important to think even more fundamentally about the organisation of dementia care across the domains. I have spoken with a number of insurers about how we should look at the development of dementia care. That starts with a sense of non-flavor at home and ends with the hallway to a nursing home. This means that you have to use different healthcare providers and different systems at different times throughout the healthcare path. As far as I am concerned, it is a question of the dementia and his or her partner. This means that it is not only a question of financing, but also a question of how the chain works.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u11	I welcome many of the things the Secretary of State is now putting forward. In his words, I sense the importance he attaches to good dementia care. In practice, however, health insurers buy it in such a way that dementia care is placed with the district nurse who has not received specific training. However, there are training courses for this and there are also case managers dementias specifically trained for this purpose. These people are all fired under pressure from the cuts with the idea that the nurse can do it. The Chamber also adopted a motion for a resolution on this matter. Does the Secretary of State have this kind of conversation with the health insurance companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u12	Sure. Nor is it the case managers everywhere being fired from dementia. You can fill out this claim in the district care in different ways. Sometimes you do this with specialised district nurses, sometimes with specifically trained case managers dementia and sometimes with a combination of dementia. That is why I said that it is a good thing that it is a claim in community nursing, because that is why people are entitled to it. It can be completed in different ways, but we still need to look much more closely at structural funding. That is the subject of the discussions I have with the health insurance companies on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u13	I do hope that we have managed to maintain specialist expertise when it is well anchored at the end of the transition period. There is also a standard of care dementia that health insurers should be aware of. I hope it is as the Secretary of State describes, namely that the specific expertise remains, because people regularly tell me that they were working for a while and then under pressure from efficient purchasing that they lost their jobs. It would be a shame if we had to miss that expertise later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u14	Mrs Faber rightly mentions the standard of care dementia. There is a good standard dementia and it is currently being updated. If this sector is worn widely, it can become the standard for care purchases by health insurers. That is why I strongly encourage the updating of the standard of care. As is well known, the cabinet invests 30 million euros in research into dementia through the Memorabel research programme. Recently, in my letter Living with dementia, I made 16 million available for projects to make society more dementia-friendly. Mrs Faber mentioned it for a while. Every year 13,000 people are told that they have dementia and at least for the first five to six years they live with a profound disease, but as far as I am concerned they live in the middle of society. This must indeed be an inclusive society, because for many people with disabilities, the opportunities for participation literally fall with the removal of barriers and the promotion of accessibility. That is why I look forward to the discussion in the Chamber of the ratification and implementation of the UN Convention on Disabled Persons. As one of the few countries, the Netherlands has not yet ratified this Convention. That is not a bad sign, by the way, because we have looked at the consequences for the whole of the legislation. In addition to symbol value, it is also a call for action to make real progress on this inclusive cooperation. Let us take stock of the situation and then zoom in on the three pillars of the reform. Firstly, the improvement of the quality of nursing homes. I am pleased that we have been able to find room in the 2016 budget to make additional money available for the implementation of the Dignity and Proud Plan. In the end, that goes to more than 2.5 million structuralally. The 2016 target of 45 million has also been deleted. Mr Van Dijk asked about the use of this money. How do I ensure that this money goes to those activities for which we have set that impetus and those objectives? I am currently discussing the use of additional resources with all the parties involved. Mr Van Dijk asked how I would arrange for these funds to be spent in consultation with the people concerned. In accordance with his wish, I am prepared to agree that the board of the healthcare provider, for example, with the client council and the nurses and the caregivers, if they do not, will agree on what is a meaningful way to spend the day and how caregivers can be well equipped to take care of the clients concerned. As far as I am concerned, this leads the healthcare provider to draw up, evaluate and, if necessary, adjust the plan together with the Customers' Council and the Nurses' and Nurses' Advisory Board. As a condition, perhaps the only condition, the health care office will make it necessary to provide the funds that are in agreement with the client council and the nurses and caregivers themselves. This involvement of clients and professionals in drawing up the plan ensures that resources are focused on day-to-day spending and training. I want to do that with as little administrative burden as possible. In the spring of 2016, I will perform an analysis at national level to see if the planning works that way. I would also like to ask myself, for example, through a survey of the members of the client councils and the participation bodies of nurses and nurses, how satisfied they are with the results obtained thanks to these additional resources. We can then use that again for the 2017 cycle plans. I intend to check for the AO Quality nursing homes on 18 November to see if I can further inform the Chamber of the exact details of those appointments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u15	This story of the Secretary of State sounds good in principle. I also think it is a good thing that client councils or employee councils play a role in this. Still, I'd like to ask you a little bit more about this. How do we ensure that this does not stick with those councils? You want the people who live or work in such an institution to just notice that they can decide on the extra money that's there for them. Apart from the advisory councils that exist, how do we ensure that people get a grip on this themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u16	When they are created through their organs, i.e. the client councils on the one hand and the participation bodies on the other. Next, the healthcare office makes additional resources available that you can see afterwards what happened to them. We do not just do this as a means of controlling purchasing. I would later like to ask clients' councils and caregivers, but also in institutions themselves, what the outcome of all these efforts has been, so that we can take that on board in the following year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u17	I agree with that, but how do we ensure that not only the councils, but also the residents and the employees themselves decide how that money is spent for them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u18	I assume that a client council that is being questioned about how to make a meaningful day's spending is not going to sit down with the driver with the institution to assess his plan for a moment. The Client Council will ask the residents and the family what is important and thus come to planning. Similarly, this should not be an agency exercise for nurses and nurses. The opinion of the people who are on the work floor, who are doing the work and who are best able to see what they need now, is the basis for determining what is needed in the plan. I understand Mr Van Dijk's point. In the design we must ensure that it does not become a meeting exercise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u19	I would like to underline the story of Mr Van Dijk. I myself asked a question about this in my speech. Wouldn't it be helpful if the Secretary of State demanded that at least the proposal be discussed with clients and/or family, that this is part of obtaining money? We can keep that simple. It works through the client councils and participation councils, but with consultation as a requirement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u20	Yes. I understand Mrs Bergkamp's point, but I hope that is an almost unnecessary requirement. I assume that a well-functioning client council and participation council will come up with positions after they have also consulted the people they represent. There's no harm in bringing that up again. Mr. Chairman. The second part of Dignity and pride is about how we can ensure that the good healthcare providers set the standard for the sector, as some Members have also said. Last Monday I gave the start to 151 enthusiastic, innovative providers. There's an overwhelming enthusiasm. 151 institutions put forward proposals covering 670 locations. It was very different. Many institutions say: people are allowed to decide much more where to spend their healthcare budget; if you want to go to the hairdresser instead of in the institution, you can do so. I could cite many examples today, but that would be too much. They are on the website dignityentrots.nl. I'd advise everyone to take a look at that site. Good examples need to be brought up to standard. Mr Potters asked for it and Mr Van Dijk pointed it out. Mr Van Dijk has already tabled a motion to look at how it can be done and how it has been proved in practice that it can be done and to make those best institutions the norm for everyone. There was perhaps some difference earlier when Mr Van Dijk's motion was tabled. I am pleased that both coalition parties are now pressing for this quality standard to be the norm for everyone. I very much agree with them. We need to come up with new quality standards seen by the client's eyes. This is shared across the sector and, above all, inspired by the well-functioning institutions. This may then be the guideline for the Health Inspectorate, which can then use it in its supervision of the institutions. The three-stage rocket is: discover the best practices, extract from it a quality standard that is new, which is focused not only on the procedures, but above all on quality through the eyes of the client, and then make it a guideline for supervision by the Health Inspectorate. In this way, Mr Potters' wish and Mr Van Dijk's motion could be seamlessly matched.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u21	We all get excited by all the fine examples we see and at the same time we think: this really should be the norm. I welcome the answers from the Secretary of State. I have to say to Mr Van Dijk that he has asked for this very clearly before. I think that's good. I have another supplementary question for the Secretary of State. Soon we will have this standard, the inspection will see what the good and the less good examples are and will maintain them. Can I assume that any sanctions can be imposed on organisations that actually score below the norm? I want to get rid of the lack of commitment, that we will stick to these good examples and that everyone says: I did my best, but still I score much less well with the same budget than my neighbor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u22	That is a very valid point. That is exactly the link we need to establish. We are working on this new quality standard which I am now saying is far too simple, not a procedural standard, but a quality standard seen through the eyes of the client. The good examples should be the standard, a standard supported by the industry itself. I also note that the sector is very willing to set this standard in this way. Subsequently, the standard may be a guideline for the action of the IGZ, including the formal sanctions that are attached to it. In this way, we provide for the inspection of a new instrument to be able to impose sanctions on the basis of that quality standard, if an institution does not comply with that standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u23	I am glad that the coalition agrees that the quality of nursing homes should be raised. Of course, we all share that in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u24	The coalition always agrees!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u25	The Secretary of State mentioned quality standards. I am thinking of a pragmatically-realistic approach. Nurses vary in size and target groups. What does that mean? Are there going to be different standards? If the norm is that the client himself decides how he wants to fill out his evening and receive his care, then we are all for it. However, if we get all kinds of strange standards again, quantitative standards that bring everyone back to focus on them, we do not think it is a good proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u26	That is a very valid point. We need to make sure this isn't going to be another paper operation. The core is that you take more account of the personal circumstances and quality of life of people in institutions and that you also take into account how it was. That means you have to do it through the client's eyes. The simplest way is to ask them what good quality is for them and what they actually think of it, without this becoming another paper exercise. The CQ index is mentioned, where you fill in lists that don't say so much. Each nursing home must have the space to make its own choices. It's not "one size fits all." These choices should be made in dialogue, in consultation with the clients and professionals themselves. That is where quality standards take place. There, in consultation with clients and professionals, we need to look at what is the right quality for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u27	Finalizing, Mrs. Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u28	If you're going to set standards, you're going to have to register and have someone monitor it. I'm a little reassured by the Secretary of State saying that customization is central, but I'm still wondering. Can the Secretary of State mention three of the standards that would end up there? He's visited a lot of nursing homes. Of which three standards does the Secretary of State say that they should shape quality standards?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u29	There's already a few that we shouldn't take away. For example, hygiene and medication safety will always be very important. Quality looks very closely at the quality of day-to-day activities. Is sufficient attention paid to the needs for daily use of people in a nursing home? In addition, the attention and expertise of staff play a major role. Is there sufficient expertise to adequately support the dementias in a nursing home, to name but a few? Is there enough listening to the relatives? Is the care plan not a paper exercise to write it down every six months, but is there actual consultation with residents and their relatives? That will indeed require a different way of inspection. Inspection does not mean that the paperwork is checked and that the folder is out of the closet and that all food chains are well described. No, then the inspection will have to sit there and walk around and have conversations with residents, with clients' councils and with the nurses and caregivers involved, in order to get a good idea of the quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u30	Not only the Labour Party and the VVD agree, but in the previous debate we had on this, D66 was also in favour of making good examples the norm. So I am glad that this is underlined again here, without it being 'one size fits all' by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u31	Your question, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u32	I understand next month the quality framework will be ready to work for the nursing homes. Can the Secretary of State include in the progress report he makes on dignity and pride that quality framework, in particular how it leads to that improvement in practice, as well as the role of the IGZ and what the people who work and live in a nursing home are going to notice, so that we can also see that this standard really leads to improvement in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u33	Yeah... where's the hesitation in my yes? It's there because I can't completely see if it's really gonna be ready in a month's time in the required width. Yes, things like: how can you describe that quality and how can you put it down? However, I very much agree with Mr Van Dijk that you need to think not only about the quality standard but also about what it means for the way in which it is adopted and for monitoring. So I would like to promise Mr Van Dijk that I will give him that insight as soon as that quality story is available, but I would prefer that we take the consequences with us at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u34	In conclusion, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u35	I get that. So I'd like to give the Secretary of State that time, too. But I also asked him if, in his preliminary reports, he would like to tell us what people are going to find out about it in practice, so that the quality framework and the other role of IGZ ultimately also lead to better and more personal care in nursing homes, something we all want in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u36	That seems to me to be a valid point, and I am happy to say so. Mrs Keijzer asked how I could be moved to abolish the CQ index. You don't have to, because there's already been movement. The CQ index will be abolished as of next year. I am glad that I can inform you that all the parties involved asked the Dutch Health Institute last Monday to formalise this. I come to the topic of support at home by the municipalities. As I have just said, we see that in most municipalities, teams have been formed for this purpose which organise the community and neighbourhood support. Sometimes that's a long way off, because municipalities have been working on it for a long time, and sometimes it's still new and it's a matter of looking for good cooperation and the right expertise. Indeed, the so-called kitchen table conversations sometimes go very well and proactively. I'll give you the example of a 80-year-old man who told me the following. What happens to me now, he said, the congregation has called me! They came to see me, asking what they could do for me when they lived and if there was still a need for support. That gentleman was positively surprised, perhaps even a little positively bewildered. But sometimes the conversations lead to discontent because people do not feel heard or have seen their support adjusted without careful research. We see the judge corrects that sometimes. It's a shame it's necessary, but it's in line with the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u37	A while ago, I filed a motion for a visit to all those 80-plussers. That motion was dissuaded by the Secretary of State, and now he's very positive. So I don't get it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u38	This is because we had a discussion about whether we should prescribe how municipalities in their neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods will approach all older people. I think we agree that it is incredibly important that we pursue a proactive policy that fits the city, the neighborhood, the village where you want to do it. So there is no "one size fits all" for municipalities, but it is very important that municipalities proactively pay attention to vulnerable elderly people. That's what we agree on, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u39	It seems to me that an 80-pluser in Rotterdam is the same as an 80-pluser in Appingedam. He might as well be pleased; the example of the Secretary of State could stand up for both. It is a bit of a pity that an initiative of ours is being discouraged again and that the Secretary of State will later use it as a good example if it does happen somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u40	I tried to point out that we agree that it is very good for municipalities to adopt proactive policies to detect vulnerable elderly people and to see what they can do about them. I think that an 80-pluser in Rotterdam and an 80-pluser in Drenthe may belong to the same category of elderly people in terms of age, but that they are very different in terms of desires, needs, how people live, organisation of work, how things are with the district teams. That sounds good to me, too. Mrs Bergkamp, together with Mr Van Gerven, asked for attention to be paid to the example of the advisory office for older people in Losser. I myself have to get very used to the term consultation agency, because I think we should not be too patronising and not say that every older person is vulnerable and should go to a consultative office. At the same time, it is a very good example of cooperation between municipalities, district care and GGD, focusing on personal attention and tailor-made work for the elderly. Such a provision can indeed help to prevent health problems and prevent loneliness. I think that such a low-threshold facility is an excellent example of what the Wmo was built for. I would like to say that I would like to examine in more detail the experiences in Losser. They do seem very positive, and I will see how this can be further disseminated as a good example. Through the decentralisation of tasks, we often talk in this Chamber about the "responsibility of municipalities" and the "system responsibility for the Secretary of State." These terms make me frown my eyebrows every once in a while. I would like to stress that, in my view, there must be a very mature relationship between the Empire and the municipalities. I speak to congregations when I think there's reason to adjust. In an aldermen's letter, which I send periodically, I give the latest information to all aldermen. I try to give examples that can inspire, and I point to things that are not going well everywhere, such as the availability of domestic help. But municipalities should also appeal to me if there are legal or financial framework conditions that need to be reviewed. I also share Mr Van Dijk's view that professionalisation of social work and other forms of support is very important in order to stimulate this innovation. We should also not only think in the traditional boxes but break through fences, in this case those between care and well-being. For example, ANBO and VNG are working on a joint training offer, and the knowledge institutes Movisie, the Dutch Youth Institute, Vilans, the Trimbos Institute and the National Youth Health Centre are joining forces to pool their knowledge on the topic of working in the neighbourhood. In the short term, all the funds will be legally spent again, but in the long run, of course, you will have to consider whether you can make bridges there. I therefore agree with Mr Van Dijk that it would be very good if social partners in the welfare sector and in the care sector also looked at ways of combining the training supply much better. The same applies to carers. They must have as little difficulty as possible in caring for their loved ones. They must therefore be better involved in the organisation of care by the municipalities, in accordance with the law. They should be informed of the possibilities for support. I will constantly bring this to the attention of municipalities, including the possibilities for financial compensation, which Mr Van der Staaij asked me to do. He also asked me about my willingness to continue the program In for Mantelzorg. I would point out to him that, at the moment, the results of some 80 sections are being collected by Vilans and Movisie in order to complete the programme. I would like to say to Mr van der Staaij that I will consider, in consultation with them, how best to use these results so that the caregiver can see that he is better supported. This could also be a building block for a possible continuation of the programme. I'm gonna be on District Nursing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u41	This raises a question for Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u42	I assume this is the end of the block of "municipalities."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u43	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u44	I think the block wasn't "municipalities" but "care care." Go ahead, Mrs. Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u45	I think it was "municipalities" - I see the Secretary of State nodding affirmatively - but that doesn't matter. The Secretary of State indicated his role with regard to municipalities. In the written reply he refers to the code for handling care and caregivers. I am so sorry that this makes little concrete what this means in practice. Long-term contracts would increase job security for people. That is also stated in that code, but at the same time there are many municipalities that have concluded short-term contracts. I want to know from the Secretary of State what he's going to do in concrete terms. In the written answer he writes "stimulate that the code is being endorsed," but of course that doesn't help people whose jobs are on the road.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u46	This too must be seen in the perspective of time. I believe with you that more and more long-term contracts can help to create some peace and continuity and to achieve more innovation. That is an important point. That's why it's in the code. At the same time, municipalities are still wiggling and weighing. Under pressure from all of us, they ensured that contracts were concluded and that continuity of care was guaranteed. Right now, they're thinking about how to renew care. You may also need to conclude contracts with new providers for this renewal of care. That is also one of the wishes of the Chamber: let us look at the renewal blow. That's what we're in the middle of right now. If it has been crystallized how care is to be arranged in your municipality, you should also think about more long-term contracts, so that there is more certainty. We are now at a stage in which many municipalities are still looking at the question of continuity and where they want to make innovations, perhaps with other providers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u47	Finalizing, Mrs. Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u48	What does that mean for people who now work in care, for example in home care, and who are worried about their jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u49	Nothing other than that municipalities should ensure an appropriate provision and identify which providers they choose to provide. This sometimes leads to the maintenance of employment and sometimes to a change in employment. First of all, care for people must be secured. That doesn't always have to mean with the same healthcare providers. At the same time, we must also consider what this means for employment and the future of the labour market. I shall come back to that later on in detail. During the whole process of health renewal, in the transition, you must of course look at the care and its organisations, but parties must also look at what this means in the long term for employment and employment development in care. That is why I would like to come back to this matter in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u50	Before the Secretary of State starts his next block, I have one more question. I welcome the commitment on the advisory office for older people. The Secretary of State will take a serious look at the experiences in the municipality of Losser, where such a consultative office for the elderly already exists. Can he indicate when he will inform the Chamber? In fact, we are preparing a motion in which we are also linking the Public Health Care Act and not just the Wmo. Will the Secretary of State also look at this law? When can he inform the Chamber about the consultation office and about the follow-up step, namely the exchange of knowledge and the promotion of municipalities if the experience is good?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u51	We have just sent the progress report on long-term care to the Chamber. Next one's in March. I'd be happy to promise you that I'll take it with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u52	In March we will receive the report. Can the Secretary of State also include the Public Health Act, as it is not just about the Wmo? If the experiences are positive, can he see if they can be extended widely and include something like an incentive budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u53	I'm gonna have to pay attention to that last one. Mrs Bergkamp has asked whether we can ensure in the existing programmes that this kind of thing is encouraged. If I may take it that way, that is certainly the case. An important success of decentralisation can also be that new combinations are sought at municipal level with the Public Health Act and the Wmo. I very much agree with that. I would like to involve the Public Health Act. I'm here to talk about community nursing. I have sometimes said that the most important thing is that the district nurse gets her job back because she gets more work space. I used the word "they," but for the record, I add that the neighborhood nurse is sometimes a he. The neighborhood nurse can indicate again. I notice in all the conversations I have with neighbourhood nurses how important it is for them to be able to provide tailor-made care for clients and family. They are literally and figuratively the link with the general practitioner and the municipality. I can see how important this is for families or for spouses, for example when a husband is suffering from dementia and when things are getting back on track thanks to the district nurse and therefore learns how to deal with the disease. For example, a wife gets handles on how to deal with her husband's illness. The great thing about this is that with very limited support, with the knowledge and skills available, such a couple can stay home as long as possible. I also see that we haven't gotten there with the neighborhood nurse's care yet. I still see a lot of administrative burdens. I want to make the funding simpler and clearer. I want health insurance companies and providers to make good agreements about the purchase and that adjustments are made if necessary. We spoke recently about the patient stops and the waiting lists in the district nursing service. Mr Van der Staaij also drew attention to this. Let me be clear about this once again: we have not included care services in the Health Insurance Act for nothing; it is a right and a right in the Health Insurance Act. People are entitled to home care and community care if they need it. Suppliers and insurers must consult each other to ensure that no one is deprived of care. That's not a request, it's a legal duty. I will hold them to that at all times. Negotiations are taking place, previews are taking place and discussions are taking place on whether it is enough. Those discussions are of all times and will be of all times. I would point out that in 2016 180 million euros are more available for community care than in 2015. I understand very well that if you are now conducting the negotiations for the year 2016, the expectations and images may differ from one day to the next.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u54	We're cutting back on the district nursing. That's why we're talking about stopping at the neighborhood nursing. We didn't have one at first. At that time we did not have a discussion about people who are terminal who should be cared for by the district nurse, but who do not receive them and are therefore forced to be hospitalized. The Secretary of State has said twice that this cannot be done, but it will be done. Then how do we solve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u55	There is a duty of care in all cases. If the number of places or the budget ceiling has been reached by one provider, it does not have to be the case with the other provider. In such a case, the insurer will first consider how to ensure that someone gets that care, perhaps not with provider A but with provider B. If that does not provide sufficient comfort, there will be a contract. On the basis of the conversations I have had, it appears that there is a fairly large number of sub-contracts. It is first examined whether this can be resolved at regional level. If not, care will continue to be bought in. Of course, I also looked at the message about the terminal patients. I don't think you can say that you're going to take a quiet look at a terminal patient until the regional redistribution has taken place. For such cases something needs to be dealt with fairly quickly. I checked at the hospital to see if they had the image that people had to live their lives in the hospital against their will when they wouldn't have wanted to. The hospital doesn't recognize that. The hospital indicates that in such cases something is always arranged. However, sometimes this is not the case with provider A, but with provider B. In the debate we have had on the area of nursing, we have also said to each other that the current figures, which I have also sent to the Chamber, do not show this overrun. In fact, there is a slight underdog. I said: do not take it seriously, because it concerns the first two quarters, with a very limited number of declarations. I hear parties saying to each other: well, that's gonna be tight. We really need to assess this with each other on the basis of the realization figures we will get. Then, in spring, we can assess whether there are budgetary considerations, yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u56	Numbers don't help. What good is it to patients that there's a failure somewhere? That doesn't solve the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u57	Exactly!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u58	Patients aren't mail packages. So you can't say: if neighborhood nurse A isn't available, then we take care of neighborhood nurse B. Care is often given by people you know. Does the Secretary of State not consider that, if a person has always been at a particular institution, if a certain district nurse has always provided the care, it cannot be in a terminal situation that that district nurse is not available and that it should be emigrated to a third party or, what has even happened, that terminal care could not be provided at home and that the patient was forced to be hospitalized? That can't be the Secretary of State's intention, can it? When people say that they want a certain neighborhood nurse because they've been there for years, shouldn't that neighborhood nurse always be able to provide that terminal care, even if the budget at that institution is up?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u59	I would ask Members to intervene briefly, otherwise we will not have enough time. That would be a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u60	I think the most important thing for people is that they get the care they deserve, as the law says. Then we have to look at how that is arranged. The system proposed by Mr Van Gerven is actually a sort of personal funding, if I am not mistaken. It is precisely in his plans that it should be abolished. I don't get it. It determines in advance what budgets are available and purchases are made. If the demand for care increases, it may be that there is no place for one provider and that people can go to another healthcare provider because of the right to good care. It seems to me to be the most important thing that people receive the care they are entitled to and that it is qualitatively good. I also agree with Mr Van Gerven that, in the case of palliative care, you should not even sit down and think about where you are going but that it should be arranged very quickly and acutely. Fortunately, that happens in most cases. I also checked to see if that led to involuntary hospitalization. In this case, it was about the Maasstad Hospital. It has been indicated that the image is not recognizable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u61	I also have a question about the care stops. There are even organisations that say they're really short of money. Can the Secretary of State give a guarantee that anyone who needs this neighbourhood care will receive it until the end of the year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u62	That is not the result of negotiations. It's in the law. The law states that, if neighborhood nursing care such as district nurses who intend to provide.... I refer to the functional definition in the Health Insurance Act.... is necessary, there is a duty of care. This should be done as far as possible within the agreed budgetary framework. At the time, at the beginning of this period, all the parties sat together to discuss the budgetary framework. Everyone's signed it. And yes, it's quite an effort. It then looks at how it is organized. Can it be organised more efficiently? Shouldn't you see if there's another way? Mrs Agema has sometimes pointed out that the way in which neighbourhood care is done is cost-effective. Those are all ways to do that. If the duty of care leads to more care being contracted, that will prove to be the case. Then we can talk about this in the spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u63	But when it is pushed, does it have consequences for people's freedom of choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u64	People are entitled to good care according to the claims of the Health Insurance Act. It's not always like you get it from Provider A. Or we're gonna talk to each other about that. We say to each other, we don't sign anything anymore, we don't have budgets, and only after people have chosen, money comes. We are going to talk about this in detail, but I would point out that this certainty is not at all certain for many institutions. They have to wait and see what happens. So we try to offer as much continuity as possible in the care purchase, so that neighborhood care is available. On the basis of the development of care demand and the obligation of care, we will have to consider whether the budgetary framework is sufficient or whether adjustments are needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u65	The Secretary of State spoke about last week's Nieuwsuur broadcast, which showed that people who are terminally ill cannot die at home. It is really sad and actually embarrassing that this is happening in the Netherlands. The Secretary of State also said that from the figures he sent to the Chamber, there is now a six-monthly contract of 1,162 billion................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. However, I also brought in Vektis' figures, and Vektis is much higher. Vektis' figures are pretty up-to-date, as the Secretary of State knows. Vektis writes that half-yearly 1.3 billion is contracted to contracted care. If you add the personal budgets and non-contracted care, the half-yearly figure is almost 1.5 billion. Why does the Secretary of State send us one number and show Vektis a completely different picture?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u66	I sent the Dutch Health Care Institute figures to the Chamber because they were asked to do so. On the figures that the health insurance companies in Vektis write down, they themselves say: be careful, because these are the figures for the first six months; you cannot extrapolate them to the next period, because they do not yet say anything. Let me put it very simply. We follow the figures with each other every quarter. This could prove, in the middle of the year, after three-quarters of a year, at the end of the year or at the beginning of next year, that there is more contracted than the budgetary framework. Then we have the rules of the game that we have agreed to. So at that point we will see what we have to do. Should the budgetary framework be raised? Is there a need to move between the frameworks? Does it have to be dealt with in a different way? That's what we're gonna talk about, like we do every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u67	The Secretary of State is a bit easy to get over the quality of Vektis' figures. After all, Vektis has the most accurate declarations that can be made. The gap between the figures of the Secretary of State, who received the Chamber, and the figures of Vektis is 400 million in six months. And it's getting really fast. Isn't it wise for the Secretary of State to make an analysis of that difference himself? How could that difference have arisen? Maybe the Vektis numbers are good? Then the discussion promised by the Secretary of State, including with the organizations that provide care, will be very different. And rightly so, because then there is no underdog at all. Then there is an overrun. Can the Secretary of State do that further analysis and inform the House of Representatives as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u68	We do these analyses all the time. In the Health Insurance Act there is a duty of care, which health insurers must fill in by contracting care. A budgetary framework has been established in advance and all parties are trying to stay in it. Therefore, if more care is needed than is apparent from the budgetary framework, the obligation of care implies that health insurers have to contract more. That is what we see in the declaration figures, once they have become final. Then we have to deal with each other as to what consequences this will lead to. That's the most important thing. If the figures show that more resources are already needed, I would prefer to do so as we always do, on the basis of the figures and at regular intervals, as we agreed with each other. This means that these figures are simply dealt with here in the spring note. Then we can look at each other and see what the consequences are.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u69	I have a slightly different angle. Even if the law is clear, the duty of care is there; I fully agree with that and even if there is no problem on the total national budget, it can be very wringing and pinching at the individual level. It is simply said that the budget will stop for us and we still have to see if there can be a contract. That is ultimately passed on to the patient, if he does not know exactly what is going on. Does the Secretary of State recognize that signal? And how can there be more flexibility in the system?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u70	I recognise the signal in the sense that a supplier may have reached a budget ceiling at offer level. Then someone can no longer get care from that provider, but the duty of care remains for the individual. That means the health insurance company can't say: there's a budget ceiling, so I can't help you now. The obligation to care for individual patients remains. How do we get flexibility in that system? There's a few ways we can do that. This can be achieved by redeploying halfway through the year or at a few points in the year. Then it looks at what money is about and where money is short. In practice, insurers do the same. Sometimes insurers also need it to make a difference between personal budgets and care in kind. That's what you want to change over time. And sometimes they just have to sign up. That means an increase in their contracts. So it happens in three ways. Firstly, by redistributing regionally if necessary. Secondly, by shifting between personal budgets and care in kind. Thirdly, by simply subscribing if the duty of care so requires.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u71	That's true. That flexibility is indeed there. However, this is not always the solution to concrete bottlenecks. Because something like that takes time. I sometimes hear from nursing homes and home care institutions that the budget ceiling has been reached. People want to go there, but it can't be because you take a big business risk if you're going to incur all kinds of costs, which you have to wonder if you'll ever get contracted. Does that mean that we don't run too much in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u72	You can see that the discussion is going a little differently now. I'm going to explain it very simply. If a healthcare institution has contracted and wants money, there is always a discussion about whether there might be money left somewhere else. If you say in advance that anything more is produced will be compensated, we would have an unmanageable system. The fact that, once the budget ceilings have been reached, there is a discussion about what to do with them and whether there is any money left that can be used or that needs to be contracted. I do agree with Mr Van der Staaij that this should not be an endless process. This must be done as quickly as possible to avoid waiting lists. The signals I have received show that, after the initial discussion on how that would work, there will be a real contract where it is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u73	The fact that 23 people in the dying phase were faced with a care stop has crossed every line. I think that the Secretary of State should come up with a human response in the debate that we are about to have, rather than the technocratic response we have just heard. My question, however, is another one. 'Cause I'm a little remodeled. We spoke in the Chamber last year about the new Wmo 2015. The Secretary of State has defended it and he has received support for it in the Second and First Chambers. The same applies to the Long-Term Care Act. It was discussed here and in the First Chamber and received a majority. However, this does not apply to the transfer of care from the AWBZ to the Health Insurance Act. The President can confirm that I have often suggested to my colleagues that this debate should take place. However, that debate was not held. On the basis of which majority in the Second or the First Chamber does the Secretary of State feel supported in abolishing freedom of choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u74	I think it is legal to lay down the duty of care so that everyone who needs care in the neighbourhood is entitled to it, not technocratic but very much in the interests of the people who it is. I do not think it is technocratic at all, but it is in the interests of the people who it is. That's point one. The second point is the question of exactly what is the situation with the majority before the transfer. I would point out that we have had a lot of debates on individual laws. I believe that the Chamber has asked twice or three times to outline the coherence between the laws. What consequences does the Wmo have for the Long-Term Care Act or the Health Insurance Act, and vice versa? I remember that, in anticipation of these laws, two or three notes have appeared which dealt precisely with this coherence. Let us be clear: I am giving a technocratic answer on these laws... when we dealt with the Long-Term Care Act and the Wmo, this has just been explicitly discussed. We have indeed discussed this very extensively. The neighborhood nurse care was the discussion point of the summer. It was different from the government agreement and we had chosen to include the district nurse care in the Health Insurance Act. We have had three debates on this. I don't recognize that image.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u75	This is really flagrant bullshit. I proposed in committee that in addition to the discussion of the Wmo 2015 and the new Long-Term Care Act, the desirability of transferring the district nurse care from the AWZB to the Health Insurance Act should also be considered as a separate debate. That didn't happen. It was only after it had already been introduced and the laws passed that those debates took place. My colleagues can confirm that. My question to the Secretary of State was very specific: was it last year or this year? At what point has he satisfied himself that a majority in the House of Representatives supports the abolition of freedom of choice? When did he do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u76	I'm sorry, we think differently about that. We've dealt with three laws here. All these laws lay down exactly what claims arose in the different laws. It is also recorded what disappeared from the Long-Term Care Act, what ended up in the Wmo and the other way around. Mrs Agema may think that she has not been sufficiently heard because she did not have a separate debate on this, but of course it has been discussed extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u77	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u78	Mrs. Agema, the interruptions are taking place in two. You had your chance. I suggest you take it further in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u79	Mr President, I would ask you to do this. I have been very clear in my question at what point in time the Secretary of State verified a majority supporting him in abolishing freedom of choice. You heard that: he didn't answer that. I ask you as chairman to help me ask him again. When did he secure a majority in the Second and First Chamber for abolishing freedom of choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u80	I've heard the Secretary of State give an answer. You cannot agree with his answer, but there is a second deadline for further discussion. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u81	Let me put it this way: I am optimistic about the opportunities offered by the reforms, but I am also realistic about the state of play. We're a long way from here. Let me take up some of the issues surrounding the implementation. It has already been recalled that the personal budget exists for 20 years in 2015. I indicated at Per Balance's lustrum meeting that the personal budget is a wonderful tool that allows people to organise their own care needs and to organise them flexibly. Over the past few months, a lot of energy has been put into solving implementation problems that have played out. We have talked about this nine times and on 10 December we will talk about it for the tenth time. Fortunately, the payouts are now more stable. All energy aims to be able to continue this in 2016. That is and will remain my priority. All involved chain parties are currently working together under the direction of the chain directors to achieve a stable annual transition. In the coming period, this is mainly about the timely delivery of data to the Social Insurance Bank by municipalities. That's what we've agreed on. We'll get everything out of the closet. Step by step improvements will take place. Not all problems can be solved at once. We have talked about them quite extensively, but all parties are doing their utmost to ensure that the transition is as stable as possible. But in view of all the debates we have had, you will not fail to tell me that I remain very vigilant and that I believe it when I see it. The reform will need to develop new functions in the social domain. We still have a lot of discussion to do, particularly with regard to employment. On the one hand, we see the disappearance of employment, for example in domestic aid, but on the other hand there could also be a perspective for staff who fill in new jobs created in the social domain, for example in the field of home services. In all these transitions and changes in employment, my starting point is that we must keep as much as possible to ensure that regular, real, paid jobs continue to exist and arise. Where more efficient work can be done and a different price can be created, we must continue to ensure that this does not lead to an undesirable and unilaterally imposed deterioration in working conditions. For this reason, I am and will remain very willing to look together with the unions at the perspective of the labour market in care. That's what conversations are about. We found together that the door at that point is ajar. We are now jointly taking stock of what could become our story on employment development in the healthcare sector. I am therefore and will remain prepared to hold consultations with the unions on this subject, and that will continue in the coming weeks. We are now particularly at the stage where we need to spread good examples and identify bottlenecks and where we need to act very practically so that municipalities, insurers and the Empire can quickly find each other in order to solve problems for citizens. I also want the changes to produce noticeable results in 2016, that, as a society, we can, for example, improve dementia care across the domains both inside and outside care so that anyone who is confronted with this disease or their neighbor may simply have someone to support. I also want us to succeed in combining and supporting work and family care, to succeed in strengthening the link between general practitioners, district nurses and municipalities in a new first line, to succeed in reducing the administrative burden and to succeed in looking together with the unions at the perspective of the labour market in care. I also want us to work steadily on prevention, a smoke-free future generation and promoting a healthy school and non-smoking schoolyards. I also want us to develop a quality approach to disability care that is both dignified and proud. At the beginning of next year, therefore, I would like to come up with a plan for improving the quality of care for the disabled. Finally, booze and drugs. "If you want to chill it's not a problem, I'll go there. I'm not just coming because I've got booze and drugs" I'm glad to come up with an appealing example, listening now to the reaction from the public gallery. I was just quoting from a song that young people and also very young children sing together in the car or at breakfast, as if drugs are normal. It is also a nice tune, but it is also a sign that the normalization of drugs is something that we may have to look at differently. If almost everyone at a party, a dance party or an event uses ecstasy, is that even normal? And if that's becoming normal, how do we feel about that? As Secretary of State for Health, I am concerned about this. If it becomes normal for young people who go out a lot to take drugs, they are at risk. Going out and drugs aren't a normal combination or maybe they shouldn't be. I have spoken to many young people and they say: I deal with them very responsibly. Then when you ask why that is justified, you get the answer: I always get them from the person who always delivers them. And then you ask how he knows this is justified and then the answer is: well, he's been doing that for a long time. You find out that there's no thought about what's actually in those pills, what the concentration is and whether they're dirty or not. I think that's where we all need each other, national and local government, party organizers, bar and club owners, schools, professionals and parents. That is why I recently sent my drug vision to the Chamber to discuss with each other whether we could deal with it in any other way. I was hoping you'd come, Mrs. Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u82	Yeah, just in time. There has been a study by the Trimbos Institute, which the Secretary of State has indicated is going to repeat, which in itself is fine. Only, when that investigation was carried out, the law had just been in force for six months. So the results didn't say very much. Looking at the research, it's even more important that we didn't talk to young people back then. There has only been talk with addiction clinics and prevention workers. If the Secretary of State is going to repeat that research, is he going to talk to young people and is there also a qualitative study?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u83	Yes, I have no objection to that. By the way, can I understand that Mrs Bergkamp says: because we have made it a little more difficult for young people to buy alcohol, everyone goes to ecstasy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u84	The directors do not actually ask the members any counter questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u85	That's true, Mr. Chairman. I'm asking a rhetorical question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u86	Exactly. Were you finished answering Mrs Bergkamp's question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u87	I would have said that I would like to look at that in a qualitative way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u88	The Secretary of State says he's realistic and pragmatic. Yet in his question to me a judgment is hidden. I'm not saying there's a link, I'm saying it's okay to investigate. In the study carried out in 2012 you can also see signs that point to this. The general conclusion is that there is no link, but the law had just been introduced for six months. I therefore hope that the Secretary of State will not be obstructed by his own ideologies, but will also look at the reality. My request is therefore once again whether he can include the young people himself in this study. If the Secretary of State can undertake to do so, I do not need to make a motion in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u89	I would like to say that to Mrs Bergkamp. In my view, however, I have raised the question as such as whether the normalization of ecstasy is good. Somewhere further in that song the sentence sounds: say yes to MDMA. These are signs that we should be able to discuss with each other what we actually think about that. I am very interested in the debate on what D66 thinks of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u90	The Secretary of State was added a little negative this afternoon that he was telling a VVD story. When he just said his words about alcohol and drugs, I would almost like to congratulate him on the fact that it seems like an SGP story, given the concern he is putting forward. In the meantime we hear that everyone knows that song and is taken to find it normal. How does the Secretary of State manage to get young people to say, "Hey, there's something in the Secretary of State's drug vision, isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u91	Now Mr Van der Staaij sets the bar very high! An important element is the way in which parents and children talk about the risks of smoking and drinking and drug use. I simply think that a lot of parents are talking about smoking and drinking and sometimes also about weed, but perhaps very little about synthetic drugs such as ecstasy, simply because the parents do not know what that is and what the dangers and risks are and what the young people do not know. I think that we are already achieving a great deal in schools, in conversations between parents and young people and on parent evenings, so that at least the knowledge and skills as well as the risks become more visible. Then everyone better make the decision. I think we've won a lot by then.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u92	I couldn't agree more. That's a good move. However, there are still few ambassadors among known figures who say that alcohol and drugs should not be so normal. Isn't it a challenge to see if, with this drug vision in hand, that message can be carried out in a more creative way by song singers or any figures? Now only the other story, that it's all normal and fun, is brought out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u93	I am almost tempted to suggest to Mr Van der Staaij that we should make a rap together, but I can already hear the Minister whispering that this is not going to help. I agree with her. It's true that we need more creativity in it. It is also part of the drug vision that we need to look at information and communication in a different way. I very much agree with Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u94	Now I have a little cute baby at home and no teenager, so I didn't know that whole song. I let myself just whisper that it's not "a little chilling," but "if you want to chill bitch." So a little naivety has taken over the plenary. My question is as follows. A few weeks ago, I was approached and I got a microphone under my nose. Research had been carried out to show that drug use had indeed increased and a link was made to alcohol legislation. The last few years we have of course been very busy with the bashens again such a popular word of alcohol consumption. Can the Secretary of State, as Mrs Bergkamp asked, investigate? Can he study the report, so that research we got under our noses, and give us a reaction to it? Is the Secretary of State aware that such a pill costs €5 and that many young people see that as a very good alternative to spending about €50 on an evening of alcohol?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u95	I'm aware of that. It is also precisely the reason why I think it is very important that we recognise more the risks of this use. We need to know more about that. Something that's cheap isn't necessarily better. It is one of the points that we should pay attention to. Mrs. Agema quoted from the song "Better than me." I've been discussing with my staff the question of whether I should use that. We all thought it was unparliamentary language. I'm glad Mrs. Agema is correcting that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u96	I still have a great sense of correctness. But I asked about that investigation that we had two weeks ago in front of us at the messenger desk or the friestore, just to stay unparliamentary for a while. There would indeed be a relationship between falling alcohol consumption and rising drug use.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u97	There is a study by the Trimbos Institute that shows that that relationship is not there. Mrs Bergkamp asked whether that investigation should not be repeated once. The Trimbos Institute says there's no such relationship.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u98	Is that the investigation Mrs. Agema is referring to?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u99	No, the investigation we got in front of us turned out to be the opposite. Well, sometimes you get a microphone under your nose and then you have to give a reaction...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u100	I think it would be a good idea for you to mention the title of that study in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u101	I asked a question about child marketing. The written response states that there is little insight into compliance with the agreements with the Advertising Code Commission. The Secretary of State wants to investigate it. What I miss is concrete steps he wants to take. I said: simply do not grant any more subsidies to activities sponsored by the food industry. How would the Secretary of State feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u102	I find that a little too general in itself. I think it is important in itself that industry should also take part in healthy nutrition for children and be careful to advertise for too young a age. We've agreed on that, too. Maintaining that can be even more sharper. In my answer I indicated that it is not just about the shops and the Star, but also about everything that takes place on the internet. That must also be part of this self-regulation. I would like to examine whether that is sufficiently respected. I think it would be too general never to subsidise any more activities that are also supported by the food industry. The industry must also take a social responsibility to think about healthy and responsible nutrition for children and about the advertising that you can and can't make. I'd like to keep that conversation going.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u103	Does the Secretary of State agree with me that only activities related to healthy food should be subsidised? When it comes to unhealthy food, there should be no subsidy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u104	The discussion about what is and is not healthy.............................................................................................................................................................. The answer to the question of what belongs and does not belong in a healthy food policy is not to cut with scissors. We will continue to talk, including with the food industry and the alliance. Finally. I started my input with the simple goals we want to achieve. Care must adapt to the people rather than the other way around. We want to organise care as close as possible and keep it affordable. I believe that we should work every day to organise care for people close to them. That is the path that we must continue to follow together. The movement of systems towards people requires a system adjustment, but also at this stage it requires practical solutions. Mrs Voortman said in her speech that we must have confidence in care at this stage. Are we not making the right move towards the district nurse care, in which not the many products and rates are fixed, but in which the district nurses themselves decide which care is needed in what situation? Are we not, therefore, on the road to a new funding in which we do not have many but a few rates because we entrust district nurses more? Have we not chosen in the Long-Term Care Act to say "Let access be an objective assessment, but then allow the consultation between client and provider to determine which care is provided"? I see that there is more cooperation in healthcare than ever, and that is precisely what gives confidence for the future. I am optimistic about this, not to close my eyes to the problems that exist and which may still arise, but to keep an eye on the cooperation that is possible and necessary between all the professionals involved to shape the care in consultation with the client and the caregiver.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u105	I waited for the Secretary of State to finish, because I have a question about something he said earlier in the debate. I want to know whether or not what he said is actually correct. Did I just hear the Secretary of State say about community nursing that there were no people who actually wanted to die at home at the Maasstad Hospital? I had the impression he said this wasn't the case. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u106	I cannot, of course, say anything about this from my own observation. I therefore asked the Maasland Hospital, following the signals, whether it would prevent terminal patients from dying in the hospital against their will. The Maasstad Hospital said that they did not recognize themselves in the figures, but that is the view of the Maasstad Hospital. The Maasstad Hospital further indicates that there is always an attempt to find a solution for palliative patients within 24 hours. So I didn't mean to say it never happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u107	It is good that the Secretary of State nuances the figures, because previous correspondence from the Maasstad Hospital showed that people who wanted to die at home died in the hospital against their wishes. I think we should be very much aware that this has happened and that we must do everything we can to prevent it. I take it the Secretary of State is going to work hard for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u108	I very much agree with Mrs Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u109	The Secretary of State concludes his speech with a plea to come from systems to people. That was also one of the cubes from my first term. I will come back to the citizens' initiatives in the second term, because I would like to talk to the Secretary of State about intensive child care. You can see that the systems are ticking in there: health insurance companies that let you know by letter that there is to be a re-indication within two weeks and detailed care plans that need to be handed in while sometimes that is not possible at all due to changing care. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how he is going to take insurers and municipalities with him to make his ambition to move from systems to people at this point. For the sake of intensive child care, please clarify how we get from systems to people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u110	I can do that in two or three ways, a little depending on how you feel about it. First of all, I'm going to do it with parents of children who need intensive child care, to go over the table about what they're up against. How can we make the process that these people have to go through more flexible? This is being discussed intensively and, on the basis of the results, we will look with the parents and the health insurance companies for bottlenecks that we can identify and simplify. As unfortunate as it may be, intensive child care often requires different laws. Sometimes guidance is needed in the home situation. Sometimes you have to take care of things with education. Sometimes we need a hospitalization. Sometimes guidance and care are needed at home. Whatever we make up with each other, especially when children need intensive child care, it will always be a search. I hope that Mr Van Dijk will do the same, and that we will ensure that parents who face this type of problem are helped a little bit to solve them and to clean them up. I'm betting on two levels. On the one hand, there are things in the system that need to be solved because otherwise things will not work out well, but on the other hand, we also need to look for very practical solutions. When parents run into something, do people have to say, "You have to do it like this, or can I help you?" This is in line with the comments made by the Minister. Sometimes it rubs between the systems. In that case, we need to take the lead on how we can simply help people with practical problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u111	I think that's good. Some systems will have to be cleaned up, but part of it is just an attitude. You don't send a note to this type of intensive care stating that someone has to arrange a re-indication within two weeks. I am convinced of the good intentions of the Secretary of State, and indeed those of the executives in this country, but how does the Secretary of State ensure that health insurers and sometimes municipalities do not do this kind of crazy thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u112	By spreading the wrong examples, not just the right ones, and by using them to appeal to health insurers and municipalities. Then we simply have to conclave with these municipalities or health insurance companies and say that things have to be different. It's very simple. Then we don't shoot high, but we're very practical, sometimes at the level of the letters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u113	The Secretary of State concluded his speech with the importance of trust in municipalities and health insurers. That is also stated in the written reply. My speech was about trust in the people who need care and the people who provide care. Mr Van Dijk already had a good example of indications. The people who provide care are also facing increasing demands. Each municipality or health insurance company makes its own demands. What is the Secretary of State going to do about this in concrete terms? In my view, this only increases mistrust. People who give or get the care feel suspicious about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u114	I would like to mention a few points. In a few places we have abolished the traditional indication. That's a sign of more trust in the professionals. The example of the neighborhood nurse who indicated came along. We believe that municipal support should be based on conversations. Sometimes that goes well, sometimes it doesn't. I've already talked about that. You are quite right to mention the issue of administrative burdens. When all the tasks were transferred to the municipalities and when municipalities and healthcare providers entered into contracts with each other, there was indeed a multitude of objective requirements and registrations resulting from the contracts they themselves concluded. We brought parties together to see if we could lighten that. This has led to a huge reduction in product codes. A working agenda has been created between municipalities and providers to remove administrative burdens. We are continuing to do so. So this is our very top priority, but it has to be done, also on the workplace, in this case between municipalities and providers, but also between budget holders and insurers, for example. We are also looking at how the whole pgb system can be less burdensome for the budget holder. We are therefore doing so in a large number of areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u115	These decentralisations have not even started for a year, but already people who need care and those who provide care indicate that it has become more bureaucratic. Then you're not gonna come by saying you're dating? Then you have to tell municipalities and health insurance companies it doesn't work that way, right? We have adopted these laws precisely because we had less bureaucracy and more confidence in clients and professionals. If the effect is that people will have to deal with more distrust, we must act immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u116	That's what we're doing. It may be crazy, but it is also understandable that it can certainly lead to higher administrative burdens and registration charges at the beginning if you first talked to six healthcare offices about your budget, but now with many more municipalities. That is precisely why we believe that there should be clean-up. I am talking to the VNG about whether we should not achieve a much more far-reaching standardisation of a large number of requirements. I am very convinced of that. This requires that we have an adult discussion with the municipalities; I mentioned that in my speech. Each municipality is autonomous, of course, but on a number of issues you could make good agreements with each other, for example to synchronize and standardize purchasing and administrative requirements. That process is now in full swing. It's not so crazy that this is happening right now, but it would be wrong if we weren't going to clean it up. We've been ten months. The transfer of tasks just succeeded. We are now thinking about how we can further and better adjust this. This is a process that will take place over the coming months and perhaps years, but with one thing in mind: more simplicity, less administrative burden and more trust for the professional.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u117	From systems to people. I want to talk about a special group, the teenage mothers. The Secretary of State addressed this in the written replies. There's a report from JSO that's still coming to the Chamber. The Secretary of State is quite sure that if municipalities fail to fulfil their responsibilities, he will appeal to them. How do we know that municipalities do not fulfil their responsibilities? How do we get a good picture of these teenage mothers getting the right care? I am getting signals that they fall between shores and ships here and there, for example because WMO and youth aid regions do not overlap one-on-one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u118	It is a responsibility of municipalities, but we also want to know the results. This means that we have to carry out occasional research, such as this type of research, whether it goes well or not. What are good and bad examples of how things work in practice? That will also be demonstrated by this study. If the report goes to the Chamber, we will have to discuss with each other where municipalities need to be addressed, where there are good examples and whether things are going well or not, so that we may be able to adjust. Here too, we have not given this to the municipalities for nothing. It is essential that we give the municipalities the confidence that they also take on these kinds of problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u119	Of course, I would very much like to give the trust to municipalities. The task now also lies with the municipalities, but it is a very specific group that needs specific help, which is not always found by municipalities. The Secretary of State says in the written answers that municipalities have direct responsibility. I appeal to the Secretary of State for his system of responsibility to ensure that the relatively small group in need of specific assistance does not fall apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u120	I agree with Mrs Dik-Faber. The municipalities have that responsibility, but we are discussing the results achieved and the way in which municipalities do so. That's what I meant by the mature attitude of the Empire and the municipalities. I have said before that I do not want to be the Secretary of State who makes laws and then says to the municipalities: do your best. I would like to appeal to the municipalities for their results and come to an adjustment when we do not like them, just as I should be able to speak to municipalities when there are legal and financial obstacles. That means we do occasional research to see how things work out at this point. Then we can discuss it in the Chamber and tell each other whether adjustments are needed. That remains an active attitude for me as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u121	In response to Mrs Dik-Faber's point, the Secretary of State said that there would be a cabinet response to the JSO report that has now been issued. Does the Secretary of State also wish to include in the response to this report the point I raised, namely counseling in case of unwanted pregnancies? In what way is this settled and is independence sufficiently guaranteed if this counseling is also invested in abortion clinics? He went into it briefly. I would like to talk about it, but perhaps that is a better framework. Will the Secretary of State at least address this point in response to the JSO report?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u122	I would like to say that to Mr Van der Staaij. All the way to the end. The theme for 2016 has been searched by several parties. I was a little inspired by the thank-you day for Mr Van der Staaij's crop. There were also questions about oral care, so I had told you: the day of prayer for the crop could also have been the day of washing for the teeth, but that would have been a misrepresentation of things. I was inspired. Traditionally, the thank-you day for the crop used to be very focused on the crop. Nowadays it is much more of a day when you share gratitude and wonder with each other. That feeling creeps me every time I stand in this Chamber: on the one hand I am grateful and on the other hand amazement. All madness on a stick: D66 advocated for the year of simplicity, GroenLinks talked about trust and the SP and the CDA guided on working together. Then 2016 will probably be the year of cooperation in confidence, as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u123	I thank you, but not after Mrs Agema has made a final interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u124	The main conclusion of BNN's study among 5,000 young people, carried out by Labyrinth Bureau, is that one in three has started to use more drugs since the new alcohol law. For 8%, it was even the reason to use drugs. The Secretary of State does not need to comment on this now, but perhaps he can send a letter to the Chamber together with his colleague in the field of security and justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u125	I know that research where young people have been asked: now that you're not allowed to buy alcohol, are you going to use more drugs? When young people say 'yes, that is so', I do question what exactly comes out of that research. If it's true that you can easily get booze through your brother, would you go on drugs if you didn't get them? Would that really be the outcome?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u126	This is an investigation involving 5,000 young people by a renowned agency. I'm just asking the Secretary of State to chew this up with his colleague on Security and Justice. It's very serious. I'm asking him to come to the Chamber before Christmas with a reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u127	Maybe we can link that to the commitment I made to D66. The spokesperson asked me to repeat that investigation and to have a qualitative review of what is behind it now, now that we are a little further on. Then we can combine these two things nicely. I do not know whether it will be possible to repeat that investigation before Christmas, but I would like to admit that, on the basis of that investigation, I will send a further letter to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u128	Very briefly. It is efficient to get answers on paper, but then a bit slips in between. In a very short sentence it said that people who think they are entitled to a pgb but not getting it from the health insurance company can go to the SKGZ, and that this also applies to a municipal pgb. There is a sentence in the answers. It would be new information for me that people who are not awarded a pgb from the municipality can contact SKGZ. That would mean extending the SKGZ. Maybe that's a very good idea, but I'd like to get some clarity on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u129	That is neither the intention nor the good idea. So I'll take a look at that sentence. The SKGZ supervises the conduct of insurers and not those of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u130	This has put an end to the first-term response by the cabinet. I propose to suspend for five minutes and then continue with the second term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u131	We have come to the second term on the side of the Chamber. I give the floor to the first speaker, Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u132	Mr. Chairman. I'll start filing the next motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that power over the shaping of care has been increasingly transferred to private health insurers by the government's out-of-control;]] [[noting that the majority of society opts for a public health system without market forces and competition;]] [[believes that care should be a public provision that is high-quality and accessible to all;]] [[calls on the Government to make preparations to regulate the implementation of the basic insurance public,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a new Ambulance Services Act is in preparation;]] [[noting that the public variant, where ambulance services are covered by one national public organisation or under the responsibility of municipalities, is not being investigated;]] [[Whereas ambulance staff seem to have a high degree of support for this public variant;]] [[calls on the government, in the preparation of the new Ambulance Care Act, to examine this public variant and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are indications that one in three general practitioners who cease their practice are now asking its successor for goodwill;]] [[noting that this makes the care unnecessarily expensive and against the wishes of the Minister and the Chamber;]] [[calls on the Government to come up with a plan to prohibit and criminalise the payment of goodwill to general practitioners,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a majority of the Dutch are in favour of a public health system;]] [[Considering that trade agreements such as TTIP, CETA and TiSA may lead to irreversible steps towards more market forces;]] [[believes that if there is also a political majority in favour of a public health system in the future, this should be possible;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that a public health system remains possible in the future and to ensure an opt-out for the whole area of health care under the trade agreements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a large majority of health care institutions refuse to disclose voluntarily the declarations made by their caregivers;]] [[believes that everyone should have an insight into the sensible and economical use of public care money;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the declarations made by all caregivers and supervisors are made publicly available on an annual basis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that healthcare professionals have the knowledge and expertise to decide which medicines someone needs;]] [[considers that it is not the health insurance provider who has the last word if in individual cases a specially prepared medicine means the best treatment for a patient;]] [[calls on the Government to agree with the health insurers that the decision to prescribe specially prepared medicinal products in the absence of an adequate alternative in individual cases should be left to the care professional and that they should be eligible for reimbursement in such a situation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the own risk has increased since 2008 from €150 to €385 in 2016, creating an undesirable financial threshold for many to receive medically necessary care;]] [[noting that health insurance companies claim that an own risk of €385 is too much for many people to pay;]] [[noting that health insurance companies have an overreserve of around EUR 3 billion;]] [[invites the government, with the health insurance companies, to limit this to €200 for 2016, if its own risk has to be taken into account,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-33]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-34]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-35]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-36]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-37]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-38]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u133	Then my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that patients in their final phase of life may be confronted with a patient stop, which means that they cannot receive care from their trusted caregiver in the terminal phase, being the home care worker. the district nurse;]] [[considers that a good relationship of trust between the patient and the home care worker/neighborhood nurse is essential for good care, especially in the provision of terminal care;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that patients are provided with end-of-life care from their trusted healthcare provider,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u134	I forgot to put the following question to the Minister in the first place. This concerns an issue that has been going on for years: the issue of VAT in care groups in the first line. I would like to know from the Minister what the state of play is. This problem really requires a solution. We've been debating our healthcare system for two days. I always wonder what the political elite is listening to and who is getting better from this system. 85% of people reject the cuts in health care. Society does not want to destroy home care, care and nursing homes, but the PvdA and VVD cabinet continue to demolish Brussels. The own risk increases to €385. The result is that 333 000 people do not pay the premium and 800,000 people have a payment scheme. Who's gonna get better? Care should be cheaper, says the political elite. But patients don't get their customized medications or tools anymore. What kind of patient gets better? Home care, guidance and daily spending had to go to the municipality, abolishing the right to care. Who's gonna get better? The lawyers. We are seeing an increase in the number of lawsuits that people need to bring in in order to get some care. The lawyers experience golden times, as do the consultancy agencies, which need to be involved everywhere in order to make the decentralisation of the municipalities a little more effective. Who gets better from TTIP and TiSA? It's not the patients, it's the multinationals. The Minister is cutting back on the ggz, but the costs come to the police, who have their hands full in dealing with confused people. Who's gonna get better? Not the patient. First you start a fire and then you call on a hunting team in life to solve the problems. Who's gonna get better? With this healthcare system, a huge bureaucracy is being rigged up of dbc's andzzp's. Who's gonna get better? The bounty-payer? The patient? No. The managers in healthcare, the fastest growing profession in the Netherlands. The accountants. The accountants. The suits. They're getting better. Who's gonna be better off with this system? Not the patient and not the home care workers, who are being laid off massively or cut by 20%, 30%, but the care drivers with their top salaries. Look what happened in Zeeland. Yesterday or the day before yesterday we heard the message that in Zeeland care drivers who have failed go home with tons. Isn't it absurd that this is possible? It is time for a different policy, which abolishes competition between health care institutions, abolishes the risk of owning and charges in terms of carrying capacity, breaks the power of health insurance companies, restores the health care provider to the patient and guarantees the right to care for everyone, both nationwide and municipal. I say it again, with emphasis on the VVD: read the plan The concern is good for us. The helm really needs to change.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u135	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State and all the official support for the careful answers we have soon received so that we can keep the second term today. Yesterday the VVD made an important point of joint decision-making and quality of life. It is good that this has been widely discussed in the Chamber. It is good to conclude such an interesting subject with a motion for a resolution. I am therefore pleased that I, together with the Labour Party, can table a motion on Co-decision. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the standard of treatment should be discussed, considered and decided jointly;]] [[Considers that the financing of care is largely based on transactions and less on discussing, weighing and deciding together;]] [[Whereas the NZa will present a plan of action for the further development of DOTs this spring;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the NZa to make a decision together as part of the DOT development plan so that the good conversation becomes the norm;]] [[calls on the Government also, together deciding to make the standard of care become the standard by asking the Quality Institute to include Together Decisions in the relevant medical protocols and guidelines;]] [[Invites the Government to report on this for the summer of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Lange and Bouwmeester. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u136	Yesterday, the VVD proposed to declare 2016 to be the year of less regulatory pressure and more confidence. In the reply, the Cabinet states that next year is a very important year and that these issues will be addressed in that important year. In any case, it seems to me to be an important observation that next year's work will continue. That's profit. I come up with innovation in healthcare. The response has made it clear that the main focus is on removing barriers to innovation. That's important. I also make an active appeal to people working on innovation in care and to entrepreneurs to report such barriers. The VVD would like to repeat that call. We believe that we will be able to remove all these obstacles in a practical way. This improves both innovation and care. Together with the Labour Party, we have tabled an amendment on the independent family confidant in mental health care. This is an important additional link, which is needed now that people are happy to stay home for longer. The opinion on that amendment is left to the House. I'm curious to hear that. I think it is very important that these family confidants get that extra support next year, so that there is extra help for the outpatientisation there. The same applies to the Heartsafe Living Initiative. That can be rolled out wider. Then, if every second counts, people can actually get help from well-trained volunteers. In addition, emergency aid can be extended, not only to help with a heart attack, but also to provide wider care at local level. That's a wonderful system. A rural roll-out of that deserves our support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u137	The proposal is sympathetic, but I have a problem: it already exists. There's already an app, I think from Heart rate now. It has already reached 75%, as I heard yesterday in response to Mr De Lange's amendment. We must prevent two initiatives from getting in the way of each other. How can we fix this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u138	I thank Mr Van Gerven for his question. I checked that, too. Luckily, I knew that, too. Heartbeat.Now works with Heartsafe living. Heart safe living system is that it is also linked to all emergency rooms, while Heart rateNow only has an app. This makes Hartsafe Living an integral system. If there's a report, the volunteer pool will be sent in immediately. However, the systems work together. I agree with Mr Van Gerven that this must be done. Together they form a single nationwide closing system, of which as many volunteers as possible can use. Mr Van Gerven's concern has therefore been resolved. What he wants is secured.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u139	Well, I don't know, because I got that disturbing signal from HartslagNu.nl. My question to the Minister is also whether this can be looked at properly. We shouldn't have two emergency apps in such an acute situation. It has to be unambiguous. All the people who work in the field must also agree on it. That is why I once again ask the petitioner and the Minister whether the one system we already have can be improved if we have to. But please let's start from one app for the whole of the Netherlands at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u140	I'll share that. That's also the beauty of Hartsafe living. This has been working since 2010 and is therefore a proven system. Co-operation with that other app is now being looked at. I agree with Mr Van Gerven. Both initiatives talk about cooperation. When I got those signals, of course, I went after them, too. Of course, there has to be one system. As far as the VVD is concerned, this must be linked to the base of Hartsafe living, because that system has the links to the control room. That's where the added value comes in. Heart-safe living has been operational for years, so it's gonna be fine. I'm gonna go to the evaluation panel. Last year the VVD made this an important point in the budgetary discussions and, with the support of the Chamber, managed to reserve EUR 1.5 million for it. The question was whether the health insurance companies would participate. The good news is that during the budget debate the message came out that the health insurance companies are going to participate. This means that there will be an additional financial boost for the evaluation study. That's good news. Good care and a wide and accessible basic package, that is what the VVD stands for. We believe that there are guarantees for this in this budget too. To that we have added together decide and the quality of life. And that's what it's about: keeping a healthy lead on your own life.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u141	Mr. Chairman. Here is a satisfied Dutch MP of the VVD. I welcome the commitments we have received on our two main points. The good examples in long-term care are actually being raised to a standard and we are going to take a serious look at the issue of non-committality. In addition, I am pleased that I am testing and feeling a broad majority in the Chamber and with the Minister and the Secretary of State to take real steps in the subsequent funding. Because personal funding, in which the client is central, is the way to the future. Finally, of course, I am satisfied that the amendment will probably reach a majority for the aid dogs. In order to strengthen these two matters, I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many people are currently not satisfied with the quality of care institutions in long-term care;]] [[noting that a number of health care institutions in long-term care provide care under current laws and regulations where quality of life is high and individual attention and customisation are the starting point;]] [[noting that current legislation and funding do not create obstacles to providing excellent care;]] [[noting that, at the request of the Lower House (Motie-Van Dijk), the government has now presented plans to improve quality in nursing homes;]] [[noting that these plans have a high degree of voluntary and non-committal character;]] [[Whereas the quality of long-term care institutions needs to be improved in the short term, with a view to ensuring that the client decides as much as possible on the basis of his or her wishes and possibilities;]] [[Calls on the Government, in cooperation with the best healthcare institutions in long-term care, to develop a new standard based on quality in these institutions and to send it to the Chamber for summer 2016;]] [[calls on the Government to give long-term care institutions a period of two years to comply with this new standard and to allow inspection to intervene in the event of insufficient quality,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Potters. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u142	I am glad that the VVD has now added to the leg. Six months ago, the VVD was the only party to vote against the proposal to make good examples the norm. I have a few more questions for Mr Potters. If I understand him correctly, he says that the quality framework should be drawn up for the summer. The Secretary of State said in his reply in the first term that this will be done next month or the month after. Then why the delay? I also understand that the Secretary of State lets this be part of the IGZ, something the Chamber has previously asked for. What does Mr Potters' motion add? I ask all the more because I understand that the VVD is generally against unnecessary motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u143	I welcome this question because it gives me the opportunity to outline the difference between the motion tabled by Mr Van Dijk last year and this motion. We want it to be dealt with in the Chamber by next year at the latest. It is good that the quality framework is in place, but we want to speed up the discussion in the Chamber. The main difference is that we want to change the non-committalness that may have been left in the first instance. We want the inspection to intervene when the quality standard is not met, so that in future we will only talk about excellent examples and not just about good examples. I've heard the Secretary of State say that; I'm glad. However, I think it is good, not only for the inside but also for outside the Chamber, that this will be the norm for the future and that we want to test it. I think it is a good thing that we have a motion for a resolution to recapture such an important subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u144	I think we've come a long way on steam and this motion is more likely to delay. That is something I and my colleagues in the Chamber would not want. I have another follow-up question about the standard. Mrs Bergkamp (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. We want each institution to work on its own to improve quality. Doesn't the norm lead to some kind of rigid generality in this country? Because that's not what we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u145	No, I don't think we want that either. In my first term, I was asked to do so. I made it clear at the time that this is really about customization. Man must be at the centre. We all know the good examples. We want them to be the starting point, the standard, for inspection. The Secretary of State has said that he is in the process of doing so. He does that with the plan Dignity and pride. So he wants to, and that's fine. In my view, therefore, the Chamber should say that it really has to get rid of this non-committalism. In two years' time, we can see that the sector has really grown in quality, dignity and pride. I think we both agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u146	No one in this house is against a standard of good care. It is always the VVD to do unnecessary motions, but this is really an unnecessary motion pur sang. She's making me a little cranky, too. The VVD has voted against all the motions that we tabled for, for example, residence rights, which is the most concrete standard. And now Mr Potters, as a new MP for the VVD, is coming to set the standard?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u147	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u148	So what exactly is the norm? We all want a standard and we want a good standard, but what exactly is the standard?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u149	If Mrs Agema had listened carefully to what the Secretary of State said, which I also connected to, she would have heard that the sector itself wants to come up with a standard. The sector itself wants to say what quality of life is and how it is going to ensure that it becomes the norm for the future. I think that's very positive. We've seen a lot of good examples. Those organizations deserve a plume. However, we want it to be carried much wider in the sector. I think that's what Mrs. Agema wants. We do not want to continue to talk about good examples in the future. We just don't want this distinction to be there anymore. We then know that this is the norm for the whole sector. In the future we will only talk about really excellent examples. I believe that this is not a paper standard, but a very clear lower limit that we want to set and which the PVV should support by supporting this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u150	That's completely vague. The right standard? The good examples? The VVD always says it's against unnecessary motions. I'm not at all sure about that. I actually think it's a bit of a slap in the face for all my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u151	This motion is absolutely not meant to be like that. I think we're all trying to raise the quality of nursing home care. We have also often said to each other that we see good examples, but unfortunately there are also examples of places where things are not going well. I think Mrs Agema wrote a whole book about this. We all want the sector to take more responsibility for this and use these good examples as a standard. The Secretary of State says that the sector itself wants to do the same. Then what is wrong with us saying: do the inspection allow tests and hard action if it goes wrong and the standard is not met? I think it is a very clear motion, which we can all be very satisfied with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u152	I believe that the VVD is the only one who understands the motion, given the questions raised by my colleagues. It is a long motion, but I still have not understood what else is going to happen, apart from the fact that I share Mr Van Dijk's argument that not long ago the VVD did not support a motion from the PvdA on the same subject. Frankly, I don't think that's entirely fair either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u153	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u154	It has already been announced that the IGZ will conduct research and a quality framework will be established. I wouldn't want this to cause any delay, but I have another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u155	No, your question now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u156	It's coming, Mr. Chairman. Can Mr Potters mention what such a standard must meet? Can he give us four examples of this? These must be examples other than those given by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u157	I find it special that yesterday we exchanged that we do not want general standards that everyone has to meet, so that there can be no customization. The inspection says: let the sector develop a standard itself, because there are very good ideas for how to put quality of life first, with very good examples of that. There's also customization. I mentioned yesterday the example of one institution where you can bring your pet and the other institution where older people can stay together as long as possible as a couple. That's the kind of thing you can make really good deals about. I am not here to give a very specific indication of what is and is not the norm. However, I note that the sector wants to take a step forward. I'd like to confirm that with this motion. I think that's a very good thing, because that's the end of the commitment. We also want the inspection to intervene if the industry itself is not complying with the standard it is going to develop.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u158	I note that Mr Potters has no examples. That's possible, but shouldn't the core standard be used to how clients are dealt with?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u159	I think we also exchanged yesterday that it's obviously about what the client wants, because that's the norm. The client should be able to decide how well he likes his nursing home or care institution. He must also have a decisive say in this. That's what we stand for. We do not want protocols and ticking lists but want people to be able to determine the quality themselves. The motion that I shall be tabling on the next person's funding is also about that. I therefore believe that we have the same objective in mind and that D66 can very well support this motion. I now come to my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas clients in health care institutions should be given more control over what care they need, from whom they wish to receive it and when;]] [[Whereas more opportunities for clients to choose their own provider in the longer term will encourage healthcare providers to improve and innovate the quality of care provided;]] [[Whereas in 2014 Amendment 33891, No. 108 was adopted, which stipulates that further rules can be laid down by means of a General Measure of Management on subsequent financing of persons;]] [[noting that at present the AMvB has not yet been drawn up in respect of subsequent payments;]] [[calls on the Government, as a full alternative to or for care in kind, to develop further in an AMvB and send it to the Chamber for the summer of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Potters, Mr Keijzer, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u160	I should also like to point out that the CDA has indicated that care must be seen explicitly as a full alternative to care in kind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u161	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors very much for the answers. I would also like to thank the officials, who have had to do a lot of work in a short space of time. During the debate, we discussed in detail its own risk and its deterrent effect. It is clear from the Minister's answers that she is looking at this in a different way and that she is still a little cautious about turning it around. However, I would like to ask her if she would like to find out what I request in the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the original objective of the own risk was to encourage insured persons to make more balanced use of medical facilities;]] [[noting that this should be a brake on unnecessary care use and not a brake on medically necessary care;]] [[Whereas own risk is currently indexed on the basis of Article 19, second paragraph, of the Health Insurance Act on the basis of estimated expenditure on care;]] [[Considering that with this system, the annual increase in own risk is based on the size of the insured package and not on what constitutes an effective brake on unnecessary care use by individual citizens;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider whether Article 19, second paragraph, of the Health Insurance Act can be amended in such a way that the annual indexing of own risk will be based on the original purpose of its own risk, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Bruins Slot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u162	Because it is a technical matter, this time it has really become a long motion. We have also discussed the possibility of charging a rate per treatment in relation to its own risk. The Minister has made a number of comments on it, but my question to her is whether it is true that the Dutch Healthcare Authority has carried out an investigation into it and whether that investigation is on the mini-series. If that is the case, I would like to receive that inquiry. Then there's your own resources. We note that at the moment a lot of people do not get customised with regard to their own resources. These include incontinence and stoma material. We are looking at how this can be resolved in practice. The Minister says he wants to focus on directives, but that is a very long-term trajectory, which means that we will not have solutions in the next two or three years. Is it therefore not appropriate to investigate whether health care professionals, general practitioners and nurses can prescribe such devices in the event of medical need? That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the ZonMw report shows that there are no guidelines or standards for assessing which tool is the most appropriate, the user's position is below measure and there is little research available in the field of innovation, efficiency and added value of tools;]] [[Whereas the patient and the healthcare professional work together on the quality of care;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine the pros and cons of including the criterion "medical necessity' in the provision of resources and to notify the Court of Justice of this for the adoption of the basic package in June 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins Slot and Mr Otwin van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u163	I would like to sincerely thank the Minister for her commitment to come up with a committee of financial experts that will propose solutions in terms of the lack of transparency and the slow deadlines within which financial expenditure on care is made clear. It wants to do so within the framework of the current system. Then my request is for her or at least she will take the following points into account. 1. The bottlenecks in the registration, declaration and accountability requirements as identified by the General Court of Auditors in, inter alia, the Spending Management report. 2. The signals from the Dutch Professional Organisation of Accountants that there is a lack of clarity within the healthcare sector about the scope of each other's roles, position and mandate both for municipalities and ggz institutions, elderly institutions, disabled institutions and youth institutions. 3. The final adoption of the Health Insurance Fund, the Risk Settlement Fund and the corresponding audit reports. 4. The question of what health insurance companies declare to the Risk Settlement Fund and what they actually get from the Risk Settlement Fund and how these amounts relate to the total cost of the care. 5. The arrangements for ensuring that the macro-control instruments are adopted as soon as possible after a financial year. My request is therefore that these issues be passed on to the Committee of Financial Experts in order to keep them under review. Furthermore, I was very pleased with the reaction of the Secretary of State to the CDA's action plan to get pregnant people off smoking. I am really happy with the positive tone and the fact that he is going to investigate a number of things thoroughly and will come back to the House of Representatives in the spring. That makes me sincerely positive. In addition, the CDA has drawn attention to the fact that 60% of ambulance drivers in their career are experiencing an accident or near-accident. We asked whether, according to German example, we could look at how you allow motorists to emigrate. The good thing is that officials have been in touch with the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment for a while, but it is said that we do not really know whether such a uniform working method is possible. I also understand that in one night you cannot study a whole new approach and then give a definitive answer. That's why I'm filing the next motion. If the minister just says she'll figure it out, I'll see what I can do with the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research carried out by the Netherlands Institute for Physical Safety has shown that 60% of all drivers of priority vehicles, such as ambulances, report having had an accident or near-accident;]] [[noting that drivers of priority vehicles indicate that in Germany drivers know better what to do with approaching priority vehicles;]] [[noting that the method of diversion is laid down in Article 11 of the German Traffic Act;]] [[noting that the content of theoretical lessons in the Netherlands is based on the Traffic Rules and Roadsigns Regulation;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how to promote the clear departure of motorists from approaching priority vehicles, e.g. by adapting Article 50 of the Regulation on traffic rules and roadsigns,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Bruins Slot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u164	I can see that time is ticking, so I will drop the introductions and read the rest of the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas children in need of intensive child care may sometimes need guidance due to their illness or limitation in the context of education and development problems, sometimes partly due to their illness or disability;]] [[Whereas the first species is covered by the claim for intensive child care and the second by the Youth Act;]] [[Whereas this is an undesirable and confusing situation for the people concerned;]] [[Notes that all guidance for these children is covered by the right to care in the neighbourhood;]] [[calls on the government to adjust the entitlement to care in the neighbourhood accordingly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in his letter of 2 November 2015, Progress Report Reform Long-term Care, the Secretary of State is unclear whether slightly mentally disabled people who become 18 years of age due to this age pass from the Youth Act to another law;]] [[Whereas, according to the Youth Act, they may have a health profile appropriate to a health profile zzp vg 3 & 4 and should therefore be eligible for the Wlz;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that slightly mentally disabled persons with a care profile associated with a zzp 3 & 4 can still be eligible for a Wlz indication,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government considers that the introduction of the amendment to item No. 25 member Keijzer on the reservation of additional funds for the Wmo is only possible after amendment of the AMvB pursuant to the Health Supplement Act;]] [[points out that the AMvB should be amended on the basis of the Health Allowance Act in the light of this amendment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government considers that the introduction of the amendment in order to strengthen community care needs to be adjusted;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to provide additional resources for community care;]] [[calls on the government to instruct health insurers to spend an additional 200 million on community care so that patient stops are no longer necessary in all reasonable ways, and to ensure that this is covered by more effective hospital procurement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins Slot and Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-47]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins Slot and Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-48]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins Slot and Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-49]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins Slot and Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u165	Mr. Chairman. I'm ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u166	Thank you, Mrs Bruins Slot. That was in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u167	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for their answers, as well as all the staff and officials who have contributed very hard to them. The good conversation should become the norm in care. That is why I tabled a motion along with my colleague from the VVD, Mr De Lange. My group also has four motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas information on health and care should be easily available, reliable and understandable;]] [[believes that steps are currently being taken in patient-focused information, but that this needs to be further developed and implemented rapidly in the Netherlands;]] [[believes that patient-oriented information should be part of quality policy and procurement;]] [[calls on the Government, with speed, to achieve the objective of patient-oriented communication with a timeline and to inform the Chamber thereof before the summer of 2016;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the Healthcare Institute acts as a driver for patient-oriented information for the whole sector and to encourage and monitor progress,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in their different roles as patients and clients, insured persons currently have too little control over their care in an institution and care purchase by health insurers;]] [[Whereas the voice of insured persons, patients and clients is important and can make a major contribution to improving the quality of care and services provided by the health insurance provider;]] [[Whereas the Minister is now preparing a legislative proposal to strengthen the position of patient, client and insurance councils;]] [[Calls on the Government to take into account in the legislative process that the control of insured persons, patients and clients at their healthcare institution and their insurer is increased by allowing them to elect independently and to give them control over service provision, quality of care, and use of profit, including independent support and funding;]] [[calls on the Government to include this in the consultation round of the law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas care should also be in line with regional developments and issues;]] [[Whereas civil society organisations as healthcare providers and health insurers can be expected to inform and take into account the developments of the relevant stakeholders;]] [[invites the government, with healthcare providers and health insurers, to discuss how these civil society organisations can better involve and integrate their environment in their intended policies and decisions in advance, and what role the NZa has in this, and to inform the Chamber about this before the summer of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Bouwmeester and De Lange. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-51]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Bouwmeester and Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-52]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Bouwmeester and Bruins Slot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u168	The main point of the previous motion is that we should not have any debate on the closure of a hospital in Dokkum. People there should be given the opportunity to enter into proper consultations with all parties in advance. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the NZa indicates that health insurers buy mainly on price and insufficiently based on quality;]] [[Considers that quality-based procurement can only take place if the voice of insured persons, patients and caregivers is taken into account and this contributes to the support and legitimacy of the health insurance provider's actions;]] [[calls on the Government to instruct the NZa to adapt the procurement standard in consultation with the field as soon as possible and to complete it in such a way as to include quality for patients, insured persons and healthcare providers;]] [[invites the Government also to inform the Chamber of when this can be applied in practice and how it is secured by the NZa,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Bouwmeester, Bruins Slot and Pia Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u169	Finally, the core of our contribution to the budget. Good care is care that suits people. It is not only care that medically-scientifically has the best outcome, but also care that suits people's personal needs. For us, the question of people is central to this budget; that is what it must be about. The system must serve in that. We have put forward proposals for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u170	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank both directors for their comprehensive reply. I'm filing four motions. The first is about the extra money that will be available for nursing care next year. I shall submit the motion on behalf of Mr Henk Krol. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that additional resources are made available in nursing care;]] [[Considers that these resources should be used to improve the daily quality of life for clients in nursing homes and for the development of knowledge among employees on the floor;]] [[further considers that the best way for clients and staff to determine how these resources can contribute to improving the quality of life and care in nursing homes is for them to decide;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Court as soon as possible how it is ensured that clients and staff actually decide how the additional funds are used in nursing homes by indicating the requirements for this purpose for the CCR, VAR and or,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Otwin van Dijk and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u171	The second motion deals with the cabinet's motto "from systems to people" and the fact that citizens' initiatives find it rather difficult to find a place in it. I am tabling this motion on behalf of Mrs Voortman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that care cooperatives, citizens' initiatives and individual clients are entangled in the system of long-term care laws and regulations;]] [[Considers that the long-term care system should be subordinate to the care needs of clients, innovative forms of care and citizens' initiatives that arise in long-term care and fit in with the concept of long-term care reform;]] [[Calls on the government to identify bottlenecks in citizens' initiatives and care cooperatives in the long-term care system, to draw up an agenda to address these bottlenecks and to open up citizens' initiatives, health cooperatives and clients;]] [[also invites the Government to inform the Chamber on this matter before 1 March 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Otwin van Dijk and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u172	The third motion concerns strengthening social work. This motion is also on behalf of Mrs Bergkamp. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the social work requires a re-evaluation of the profession similar to that of the district nurse;]] [[Considering that further professionalisation of the social work is desirable and that a solid foundation for the profession should be built;]] [[Whereas the Health Council advises an investment in a substantial and coherent incentive programme to promote craftsmanship in social work in the building-up phase of the social neighbourhood teams;]] [[calls on the Government to promote a professionalisation of social work, focusing on the development of a strong professional organisation, the guarantee of professionalism in the register, the development of a professional code and the integration of vocational training with the required professionalism;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Otwin van Dijk and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24300-XVI-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u173	My final motion is on behalf of my colleague Tanamal. The motion concerns information on a number of possibilities which, unfortunately, are still too little known to people. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Wlz and the Wmo have amended possibilities to strengthen the control of clients, including drawing up their own care plan;]] [[Whereas new arrangements exist to combine care and work and thus provide care to relatives;]] [[noting the low use of these new opportunities;]] [[noting that the use of these opportunities has an emancipatory effect on the one hand, and on the other hand leads to the development of more demand-driven care and support and desirable developments in long-term care;]] [[calls on the government to develop an agenda from the Empire and municipalities in which clients are challenged to use their control as much as possible and to encourage people to use new healthcare and labour arrangements and to inform the Chamber about this agenda before 1 March 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Otwin van Dijk and Mr Tanamal. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u174	Mr. Chairman. This morning, the Chamber received 59 A4s with the answer of the Secretary of State and the Minister. I only point out the part, because I was allowed to do it with such a small block earlier. I think it's indicative of the work we do in the Lower House and the response from the Ministry. In addition, what is written there is blatant nonsense. I could even dedicate a second book to it. It is about removing the right of residence from the Long-Term Care Act, the right to go outside and the right to shower every day. It's just a little bit, and I think it's enough time to quote what the Secretary of State writes about it: "The Wlz Decision includes topics that a provider has to discuss with clients, both showering and going outside is included. Provisions from an AMvB have as much legal force as provisions at the level of a law when a client wishes to rely on them. There is therefore no question of a weakening." This is really, really bullshit. If a resident of an institution has a care plan and insists, for example, on showering Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday, but if an institution then strikes out Monday through Saturday and says that there is only a shower on Sunday, then a resident can do nothing about it. Then the situation will remain as it was. If residents had right of residence, they could have said: no, I have the right to shower every day, because that is what the law says! It is very unfortunate that you get six lines of answer that also make no sense. Also interesting was the interrupting debate I had with the Secretary of State on freedom of choice in the district care. The President can confirm that during the reform we did not have a debate on the transfer of the district care from the AWBZ to the Health Insurance Act. I asked for it then, and it did happen later, but that was after the reform had already taken place, after 1 July. I asked the Secretary of State very clearly which parties in the Lower House are supporting him in abolishing that freedom of choice in the district care and community care. I have a motion on that. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to state explicitly in his reply which parties in the Lower House are supporting him in abolishing that freedom of choice. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure freedom of choice in community care and community care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u175	Mr. Chairman. In her reply, the Minister pointed out that not she, but the Minister for Security and Justice, is responsible for the medical care of asylum seekers. Nevertheless, it is her own party, the VVD, that proposes in its austerity plan to exclude asylum seekers from various health legislation. In my opinion, care laws really fall under the care minister's jurisdiction. At the end of the day, we do not care, because I call on the government to reduce the burden on asylum seekers. Whatever minister will actually take care of that will be a concern to me. The PVV Group considers it impossible for asylum seekers to benefit from all our social services and even to claim a more comprehensive basic package than the Dutch. The Minister speaks of some additions, but I find free physiotherapy, free hearing aids, free glasses and free birth control pills, to name but a few additions, far too far. The PVV Group wants to put an end to this luxurious basic package for asylum seekers. That's why I'm filing the next two motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u176	Mr Van Gerven, do you want to ask a question now or do you want to wait until the motions are tabled?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u177	Let Mrs Klever read the motions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u178	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that open borders are incompatible with our welfare state;]] [[Whereas a large flow of asylum seekers comes to the Netherlands for economic reasons;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that asylum seekers pay their own care costs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that asylum seekers receive a more comprehensive and comprehensive basic package of health care than the Dutch;]] [[considers that the care package for asylum seekers can be limited to emergency treatment;]] [[calls on the Government to reduce the care package for asylum seekers to urgent medical care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klever. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-61]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klever. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u179	Yesterday, Mrs Klever proposed that 333 000 people who are currently in default should be dealt with as hard as possible. If they need care, they must pay cash, except in the case of emergency care. Through the chairman, I ask Mrs Klever: is that correct? Then may I assume the following is true? A patient who is unpayer, has a severe form of diabetes and needs to be accompanied by a specialist can only receive this guidance if he pays €1,000 first in the hospital.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u180	If Mr Van Gerven had listened carefully to my story, he would have heard that I distinguish between people who cannot pay and people who do not want to pay. Let's get that straight. For people who can't pay, I don't suggest such a system. According to the Consumers' Association, one third of those 333.000 defaulters are persistently unsubstantiated and simply stopped paying the premium completely. If people want to pay their premiums, they must, of course, have an incentive to pay. That incentive isn't there if you just get your care when you don't pay your bounty. Then why pay your bounty? For those persistent defaulters who do not want to pay their premium, I propose that only urgent medical care be reimbursed. What's that? I'd like to leave that judgment to the doctors. I do not think that we should make a list here in the Chamber which is and will not be reimbursed. I do not think we are capable of doing that, Mr Van Gerven as a general practitioner may be, but I am not a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u181	You know, I'm kind of freaking out. Those 333,000 ungratefuls all pay their bounty with a fine on top of it, so why don't they pay? Mrs Klever says that a malpayer who has a serious condition and needs to be treated cannot receive the care needed in the form of, for example, guidance. You can only get emergency care, for example if you need to be treated acutely for a heart attack. However, the PVV says about most care and guidance: we do not reimburse it, you pay for it yourself. Those people already have to pay a fine of 50%, which most people can't afford. Where does that lead? I would like to receive a response from Mrs Klever. That politics is deadly. That leads to illness by guilt. That leads to death by guilt. Do you know that, Mrs. Klever?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u182	What an awful load of crap this weather is. The definition of "wanpayer" is that you don't pay. Mr Van Gerven says that all those who pay them is simply paying their premiums. Do I have to take that seriously? Wanpayers don't pay their bounty. I make a very clear distinction between people who cannot pay and people who do not want to pay. Research carried out by the Consumers' Association shows that a third of those people have simply stopped paying contributions completely. There's 1 billion in unpaid premiums open. That's about $85 per contributor. People with a small welfare fee who do pay their premium pay €85 extra because of the people who do not pay their premium. I think that's antisocial. Mr Van Gerven should stand up for those people instead of hanging a death-by-indebted story here. That's total bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u183	You'll just be a doctor when the PVV proposal becomes practice. Then you can decide whether or not you're helping someone, when you've taken an oath that you'll do your best to help people. Where exactly does the PVV lay the dividing line between cans and wills? How exactly does the PVV intend to make that clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u184	A lot of low-income people get a care allowance to pay their contributions. If you see that certain groups are overrepresented in the default, you should consider why they don't pay their premiums. I have given the example of the immigrants who are three times more often dispaying. Well, you should check that out. How come they don't pay their bounty? Can't they do it or is it unwilling? It's only when you investigate what that is about that you can take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u185	Thank you. This debate has already taken place on a number of occasions. Rounding off and short, Mrs. Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u186	Mrs. Klever points out the care allowance. Is she saying that anyone who gets care payments has enough money to pay the bills, in other words, that every payouter is someone who doesn't want to pay? What exactly is the dividing line between wills and cans? A clear answer this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u187	Mrs Voortman wants a clear answer. That clear answer cannot be given at all. No, that line isn't that easy to pull, clip-and-ready. But, if you don't pay your premium and you still get paid for all the care, where's the incentive to pay the premium? After all, you'll get the care anyway. If you have a treatment of many thousands of euros and you don't pay your premium and your bills, you'll just be helped again if you come back a few weeks later. Then why pay your bounty? Of course, there's something very strange in this system. That is why we say that those who do not pay their premium, those who do not want to pay their premium, those who do not want to pay their premium, should be excluded from care, with the exception of emergency care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u188	Mr. Chairman. Budgetary debates have been more intense. It is a good thing that this time we have looked more closely at improvements in the system and how to deal with the mistakes in it. How can you be very practical with the things that don't go well? I thank the rulers for their answers. I will begin by tabling my three motions and see if I can still make a few comments. We have discussed, among other things, the issue of medical professional secrecy, at least I did; the Minister replied in writing. That doesn't satisfy me, which is why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is currently regulated by law that health insurers may have access to a patient's file without informing the patient;]] [[considers that the patient's privacy and medical professional secrecy should outweigh direct access to the patient's file by health insurers in order to monitor healthcare providers;]] [[calls on the Government to submit a proposal for a legislative amendment to the Chamber, setting out the law in such a way that the patient's privacy is protected at all times and that the patient's consent is required in advance before access to the patient's file,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the desirability of psychosocial care being part of the treatment of serious somatic diseases, but not enough in practice;]] [[considers that persons with a serious somatic disorder are entitled to psychosocial care as part of the treatment;]] [[calls on the Government to engage with interested parties as soon as possible in order to identify bottlenecks and jointly find solutions to ensure that psychosocial care becomes part of the treatment in severe somatic conditions, and to inform the Chamber of Progress by the end of the year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the current system the possibility of giving new initiatives a chance is little or no use by health insurers;]] [[considers that new, small, innovative healthcare providers should be given an opportunity to prove their added value;]] [[calls on the Government to identify obstacles and to find solutions together with health insurers and innovative providers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pia Dijkstra and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-63]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Pia Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-64]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pia Dijkstra and Mr Bouwmeester. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u189	In the last few seconds of my speaking time, I would like to repeat that I would have a reply from the Secretary of State to my question about the Healthy School. I didn't hear that answer, but maybe I missed something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u190	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and the Minister for their reply and also the officials for answering a great many of our questions. This allowed the debate to take place very efficiently. I have two motions because I found the answer insufficient. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, at the time when a child with multiple or severe mental disability is aged 18, there are many legal issues, such as legal representation, to be settled;]] [[believes that it is too often unclear for parents what exactly needs to be done to ensure that care continuity is guaranteed for the multiple or severely handicapped child;]] [[calls on the Government to facilitate comprehensive and timely information for the parents of these children, in the Wlz,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Otwin van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u191	I'm filing this motion because the Secretary of State refers in the response to the Wmo. This is specifically about the Wlz and thus about the role of the healthcare office and the role of the Empire. When children become 18 years old, the parents are suddenly unable to make payments from the personal budget. So there are many consequences and I believe that the Empire has a responsibility in this. I'm reading my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the CIZ is currently re-indication for 2017;]] [[noting, however, that at present there is no clarity as to the customised profiles;]] [[considers that this leads to unrest and uncertainty among clients' and parents' clients;]] [[calls on the Government to provide this clarity as soon as possible so that it can be used during the re-indication, with the aim of providing tailor-made care in 2017, based on the customised profiles,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Otwin van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u192	A brief explanation of this motion. Reindications are already taking place for 2017. People get to know what law their child is under, but the custom profiles aren't there yet. This leads to unrest and uncertainty. We think it is important that there is also tailor-made work. That's what we agreed to as a chamber. It wasn't our choice to treat the Wlz very quickly. If that is at the expense of customization, we think it is a serious problem. We therefore hope for a positive commitment from the Secretary of State to settle this properly for those concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u193	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for all the answers both in writing and orally during this debate today. One question was central to the Christian Union: who is our concern? I think it's people's concern. Right now, I'm seeing a imbalance in our healthcare system. There's a lot of power in health insurance. That is why, together with the Labour Party, we have tabled a motion to restore the balance sheet and give members' councils a good position in our system, so that health insurance companies can really work as cooperatives again. I come to the issue of nutrition in healthcare. I read in the written answers that, following the motion, there is an inventory of food concepts in hospitals. This is done by the Malnutrition Steering Group. I welcome that, but I am still struggling with the issue of funding. It's all getting off the ground, but it's a bit difficult. We really have to fight against the reimbursement of medical drinks that are on the market for some time. Can the whole nutritional system be included in the study? What tricks and tips do hospitals have to better anchor nutrition in care? The next item is the multidisciplinary directive for adults with down syndrome. Since 2011, there has been a directive for children with down syndrome and since then there has been a strong desire among doctors to draw up a directive for adults as well. However, that is very difficult to achieve. Knowledge is lacking and literature is not appreciated. A push in the back would be absolutely helpful. Doctors indicate that they do not know how to act because of a specific care question. People with Down syndrome are not treated, although they need to be treated. Or they'll end up in the medical circuit, which is completely out of the question. The directive can therefore be very helpful, hence the amendment. I shall also table the next motion on this point. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a multidisciplinary directive for the medical supervision of children with Down syndrome, due to their specific care demand;]] [[Whereas the professional group considers it important that there should also be a multidisciplinary directive on the medical supervision of adults with Down syndrome;]] [[calls on the Government to have a multidisciplinary directive drawn up by the relevant professional group and the Quality Institute for Health for the medical supervision of adults with Down syndrome and to send it to the Chamber by the summer of 2016 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-68]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u194	Time goes on, so I'll file my second motion soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that teenage mothers often need a lot of help; they are more at risk than others of growing up and raising problems;]] [[Considering that specialist guidance and care for young mothers is paid from different funding flows and that the offer of assistance varies from municipality to municipality, as no national agreements have been made on the provision of specialist guidance and care;]] [[noting that municipalities and institutions lack figures on the demand for specialist guidance and reception of young mothers and the scope and effectiveness of their supply;]] [[calls on the Government, as a system operator, to ensure the extent and effectiveness of specialist guidance and care for young mothers up to 23 years of age by making national agreements where necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-69]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u195	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in the Netherlands, around 12 billion are spent on medicines every year;]] [[Whereas a successful model has been developed in New Zealand in which the government itself has undertaken the procurement of generic medicines, the so-called kiwi model;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how this model can be introduced into the Dutch healthcare system, to examine the potential benefits and to include them in the forthcoming pharmaceutical policy vision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the use of prevention in the basic package of the Health Insurance Act is lagging behind;]] [[Whereas greater commitment to prevention will enable people to live longer in good health, reduce health differences and increase the quality of life;]] [[calls on the Government to examine measures to encourage prevention, such as a 1% prevention fund of the health insurance premium or a better definition of prevention measures covered by the basic insurance scheme, to consult with healthcare insurers Netherlands and patient organisations and to inform the Chamber of Health before the summer of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the personalised budget should be accessible regardless of the provision of care in kind;]] [[considers that the accessibility of the personalised budget will benefit from the uniformest possible implementation;]] [[Whereas different health insurers and municipalities set additional criteria for access to the personalised budget, including the absence of appropriate care in kind;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to put an end to additional requirements which impede access to the personalised budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas municipalities have indicated that they cannot fully spend the household aid allowance (HHT) budget for 2015;]] [[Whereas the household aid allowance has been set up to mitigate the effects of decentralisation on employment in the care sector;]] [[considers that this budget should remain available for that purpose;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to ensure that the budget of the household aid allowance not spent for the coming years is available,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the basis for a healthy lifestyle is already laid in childhood;]] [[Whereas the sponsorship of activities aimed at children by the food industry is only permitted if, at the same time, public funding has been made available;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the Alliance Stop Child Marketing Unhealthy Nutrition, to draw up an action plan against child marketing for unhealthy nutrition and at least to stop the link between government subsidies and sponsorship by the food industry in children-oriented activities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voortman, Mr Krol, Mr Kuzu, Mr Klever and Mr Otwin van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-70]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voortman, Mr Krol and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-71]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voortman and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-72]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voortman and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-73]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voortman and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-74]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u196	My final motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the cuts in home care have affected the position of employees in care, leaving many people in uncertainty about their jobs;]] [[Whereas the conclusion of multi-annual contracts can provide greater clarity and security to healthcare providers and thus also to healthcare professionals;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the social partners and the VNG, to promote more long-term funding by municipalities, so as to make it easier for healthcare providers to employ people and/or provide their multi-annual contracts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voortman and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-75]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u197	It remains for me to thank the official support for their work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u198	Madam President. I thank the rulers for their reply. It was a budget treatment in which emotions did not rise high, but the motions in numbers did. I would also like to make my contribution to this with the following motions. In view of the time, I shall read them out immediately, without further explanation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas investing in high-quality long-term care is highly desirable, but such investment plans are often not sufficiently developed because potential financiers are deterred from the significantly increased risk profile of healthcare providers;]] [[Whereas having a multi-annual contract could provide more certainty for potential investors and facilitate multi-annual contracting of legislation and regulations;]] [[Calls on the Government, with care offices, to consider how more multi-annual contracts can be provided, in particular to healthcare providers who face important investment decisions that enhance the quality of care, and to inform the Court of Justice about this for the publication of procurement requirements for 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is broad agreement on the importance of the care sector coming from the current supervisory and regulatory pressure spiral;]] [[Whereas, as a result of the reform of long-term care, healthcare providers face an increase in administrative burdens, including the thousands of different, sometimes conflicting, requirements imposed by health insurers, health offices and municipalities;]] [[Calls on the Government to promote in 2016 the standardisation of procurement, quality, and invoicing requirements for health insurers, health offices and municipalities respectively, so that this can still have its impact in the 2017 contract round,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas patients often end up in hospital unnecessarily with complications or wound infections due to lack of specific expertise in community care in complex wound care;]] [[Considering that the UMCG has initiated top-level nursing care in the field of complex wound care, using high-quality nursing support and expertise for all healthcare organisations in the region;]] [[Whereas the concept of top nurse care leads to better and cheaper care and in the long term can also prevent unnecessary intakes when it comes to stoma care, care for obese patients, incontinence care, oncological care and the like;]] [[calls on the government to examine how the concept of top nurse care can be implemented nationally,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-76]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van der Staaij and Bruins Slot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-77]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Pia Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-79]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u199	My final motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the austerity of community care is partly motivated by the expectation that more informal care can be used and that efforts can be made to strengthen self-reliance;]] [[Whereas the maximum use of volunteers and carers within the palliative care system, unlike the ordinary community care system, and the argument of self-reliance for palliative patients is no longer applicable;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with health insurers, to promote the relief of palliative care at home from the reversals of community care;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-80]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u200	I would like to make one more comment on an amendment, and I have one more question. I know I'm in injury time, but that can still be compensated from the pot. I mean, out of my own pot! My comment concerns the amendment to item No. 27. The Secretary of State responded to: an additional one-off support of organizations like the Eigen Force Centrale. In my opinion, his reaction is not to the text of the amendment itself, but to that of an apparently leaked draft amendment, in which some other words were used. I ask the Secretary of State to respond to the text of the amendment as tabled, because it is not attributed to one organisation. Finally, a question. There was a major fire in Bucharest recently. A Dutch victim was also involved, who fortunately survived, but who wonders why there was so little concern from the Netherlands, while we have a great deal of expertise in the area of burn care. French and Israeli teams came, but why not Dutch teams? Does the government, VWS or Foreign Affairs, have a role in facilitating such care? How's this going in practice? How can we contribute to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u201	Mr. Chairman. I thank the two rulers for their answers. In particular, I would like to thank the Minister for her commitment to make budget available for the vaccination of vulnerable elderly people against shingles and pneumonia in a positive opinion of the Health Council. I would also like to thank the Minister for her commitment to include a separate section on older people in the revised prevention paper. This is very important. To support this, I will table the next motion, as the government says on its own website that the offer of prevention for older people is rather fragmented. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas prevention is a priority of the cabinet;]] [[Whereas prevention has a high potential for health benefits and savings in healthcare costs;]] [[noting that on its website the government itself indicates that prevention policies aimed at older people are fragmented, which makes their effectiveness difficult to measure;]] [[Whereas the Minister has undertaken to pay particular attention to prevention targeting older people in the revised prevention note;]] [[calls on the Government, in the revised prevention note, to pay particular attention to the coordination and effectiveness of prevention activities aimed at the elderly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-82]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u202	50PLUS considers care support to be of great importance. The Tax Plan will come back to whether or not tax arrangements for family care are possible. We believe that subsidies for interest groups and projects are important, but we also believe that it is important for carers to see their tasks relieved very immediately. That is why I am tabling an amendment to increase the use of day-to-day activities and respite care for elderly people living at home. In addition, 50PLUS considers it very important that extra funds for nursing homes are put in the right place. Are these funds spent on activities according to the individual resident's wishes? Are they spent on the right training courses? That is why 50PLUS warmly endorsed Mr Otwin van Dijk's motion from the PvdA. I have one more question for the Minister. It claimed that the own risk was also increased in relation to indexation, but pensions have not been indexed for years. Does this mean that there is no need for an increase for pensioners? That would be very reasonable, wouldn't it? Finally, I would like to make two further motions. Several insurers have taken the medication assessment out of their own risk, as they consider it an indispensable contribution to the medication safety of vulnerable groups. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the medication assessment is an important means of ensuring adequate drug use;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for people to refrain from, or postpone, this medication assessment, because it falls within their own risk;]] [[Whereas a number of health insurance companies have now taken the medication assessment out of their own risk on their own initiative;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage all health insurers to take the medication assessment out of their own risk,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-83]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u203	Finally, a very practical motion, in line with what Mr De Lange proposed on behalf of the VVD Group on digitisation. Society is digitizing more and more. Care is also digitizing; we also discussed this yesterday and today. We do not usually have to take young people into account, but some older people need to be helped. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas society is increasingly digitalising;]] [[Whereas this development is becoming increasingly visible in health care, including through the application of eHealth and home automation;]] [[Whereas many older people are lagging behind young people in digital applications;]] [[calls on the government, care institutions and owners of senior complexes to encourage Wi-Fi to be made available to residents as easily as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-84]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u204	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u205	To explain to the people who follow the debate in a different way, that means that he has passed the time he has given up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u206	That's right, I reported that yesterday. Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. The first motion concerns the creation of the price of medical devices. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research has shown that the prices and margins of medical devices are not transparent;]] [[Whereas this does not promote the creation of a level playing field among actors in the healthcare sector;]] [[Whereas greater understanding of the creation and composition of prices of pricey medical devices could contribute to reducing healthcare costs;]] [[calls on the Government to conduct an international comparative study on the creation and composition of prices of medical devices, including maintenance contracts, above €75,000 in Europe,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that individual healthcare providers such as general practitioners, physiotherapists, logopedists, ergotherapists, dentists and orthodontists are in some cases offered take-it-or-leave-it contracts by health insurers, for which they cannot individually negotiate with health insurers;]] [[Whereas this prevents a level playing field among actors in the healthcare sector;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with field parties, to examine the main aspects of the prevention of such signs-by-the-cross practices and to make an inventory of possible solutions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the proportion of people aged 65+ will increase from 4% in 2012 to 23% in 2060;]] [[noting that this will increase the number of people with a migrant background using the care of the elderly in the Netherlands;]] [[Considering that this will make an increasing use of the cultural sensitivity of healthcare institutions in the future;]] [[calls on the government to continue to raise awareness in healthcare institutions, training institutes and local authorities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-85]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-86]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-87]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u207	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the rulers for the answers. In the first term, I have already said where our group is going to go. We want much more freedom and much lower burdens for the people in the country, the insured. This can also be done by focusing on individualisation and preventive care. In the first term, I have also briefly indicated what is a great annoyance of many people. That's what the motion I'm filing is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that patients are not exempt from paid parking at the hospital;]] [[noting that the cost of parking paid at the hospital may amount to €36 per day;]] [[noting that both the transport of sick persons and the hospital stay are included in the basic package;]] [[noting that in Scotland and Wales, for example, patients can always park at the hospital free of charge;]] [[Whereas there should be no penalty on sick persons;]] [[calls on the government to investigate the way in which patients can be exempted from paid parking at the hospital in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Klaveren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-XVI-88]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u208	Mr. Chairman. I would like to go back to the OECD quote given by Mr Van Gerven. It is always good to read the text, to make sure that not only the first part of the quote is given, but also the second part. The OECD indeed indicates that the high concentration on the Dutch insurance market at first sight appears to be a textbook example of an oligopoly. However, Mr Van Gerven did not mention that the text would go further. The OECD points out that a certain concentration of insurers could also be efficient, due to economies of scale and purchasing power. Insurers seem to be competing according to the same OECD report and not obtaining excess profits. The OECD sees the decline in the 2014 care premium as a sign of successful cost control. We can fight each other endlessly on these things. Today, with my input, I have just tried to point out that we need to look at the issues that are affecting people. What do doctors, physiotherapists and psychotherapists suffer from? Can we stop thinking along with them to solve their daily problems? That will continue to be my commitment for this year and for next year. I can illustrate it to the Top Income Standards Act. Mr Van Gerven made the point that it is really awesome that so much is being earned. He gave a number of examples of hospitals. They are in the transitional period, but the government has now set a ceiling under the Standards Act. That is what we consider socially responsible for making directors earn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u209	The top incomes have just exploded through the competitive system, privatisations and the remote placing of all healthcare institutions. It takes regulation from the political point of view to bring it back a little bit. That means it's totally offended if you leave it to the market. I would like to return to the beginning of the Minister's speech on insurance and oligopoly. If we do not want this competition and it is difficult, why not just abolish it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u210	I've been having this debate for years. I think we have a repeat of moves over and over again. I just wanted to point out that it's useful to quote the whole piece. The fact that we disagree on this is not special at all. Nor that we look at it differently. However, I would also like to point out that we can find each other in other areas. Whether we're talking about the Top Income Standards Act or about one of the other parts that we're going to talk about later, we can find each other. That is why I believe that a practical approach to care and, above all, to patients will be the best.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u211	Care is not too expensive; this system is too expensive. Let's take a look at the behavior of the health insurance companies. The Minister is not doing anything about the reward of the summit, which is still far too high. It should be much lower, but that is much more difficult to regulate, because we do not properly regulate it. Let's look at the transition circus. An advantage of 70 million has been obtained there, says the Dutch Healthcare Authority. That is an advantage for the citizen. Expenditure on acquisition and advertising for that whole circus is in the order of 250 to 300 million. It's ridicul that we're allowing this, isn't it? It's premium money spent on such bullshit. That money is spent on sponsoring football clubs. Let's cut the crap.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u212	Your question is clear, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u213	Those numbers don't add up at all. I've already indicated that in the first term. There is, of course, money in services that are provided to show people the way. Where would they go best if they had a particular disease and where would they best get certain things when they needed them? If you put everything together, you're gonna come up with a huge amount of money. I don't think we're really gonna get out of this. I do think it is time not to tire the public constantly with all kinds of false fights. Let's just try to solve problems with them. The first motion, in part No. 33, calls for a massive change in the system. We discussed in the debate that the results are disastrous for employment. Furthermore, I do not think we should waste our energy on this type of system change. That's why I don't recommend this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u214	The Minister keeps saying that our proposal leads to job losses and calls on the Central Planning Office to do so. The cuts in the current cabinet have led to the loss of 65,000 jobs in the healthcare sector, haven't they? If we were to fix that and invest 3 billion in healthcare, wouldn't that lead to job losses? Will the Minister just acknowledge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u215	The account is thus not reduced, but only placed differently with a group, in such a way that additional work would not pay at all. Then you'll see that it doesn't happen again. Those are ancient laws, that's the way it is. Centraal Planbureau also listed this. You have not specifically zoomed in on that, but that those effects of your plan are very firm, you can clearly see. That's okay, you can draw that consequence, but it's not a consequence I'd like to draw.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u216	There are no very old laws in this area. However, there is the Keynes model, which states that you have to invest in the public domain when things go badly. This creates jobs and does not lead to job losses. We disagree with the cabinet, and with Minister Schippers in particular. That investment in the public sector would lead to job losses, I really can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u217	It's about where and how you put the bill down, and how something like that stimulates people or doesn't encourage them to do anything extra. That's where the job loss comes from. The motion in part No. 34 calls on the government, in preparation for the new Ambulance Care Act, to examine the public variant and to inform the Chamber accordingly. I think we have already discussed this in the debate. I'm having trouble cutting up the chain. Also in the public variant you would have tenders. The motion seems to suggest that that would not be the case, but that is not the case. I will come up with a position on this. I'd like to discourage this motion. The motion in part No. 35 is about goodwill. We agree on the undesirableness of goodwill. However, the motion calls on the government to come up with a plan of action to prohibit and criminalise the payment of goodwill to general practitioners. We have sought legal advice on this matter. Miscriminalizing goodwill is legally very complex. I am prepared to look at a plan of action to get goodwill out in a different way. Maybe we'll be able to find each other after an adjustment of the request. I already know that I cannot make the request in this motion, which makes it very difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u218	The goal is the same, so we agree on this point. I understand that it could also be the design of the Health Insurance Act. I'll ask the Minister to look into that too. Perhaps we can get a grip on this or even get a ban on it through a legal amendment or some kind of focus on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u219	I'd look into that, but I manage the expectations. We have already had a legal investigation because I think it would be very bad if we went down that road. The legal opinions did not make me very optimistic, but I am prepared to make a plan of action. If Mr Van Gerven wishes to amend his motion and ask for a feasible plan of action, I would like to say that I will take the legal element into account. Then I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u220	We'll adjust the motion in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u221	We're going to the motion in part no. 36. There too, Mr Van Gerven and I agree on one thing: public health is a national competence. I agree, just as I think it should remain so. It is just a pity that I really cannot share the observations at all. That is why I do not think I can leave this motion to the House. I'm gonna dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u222	I'm just gonna grab it, 'cause I gotta say it right. This is a schedule of specific commitments and a list of exemptions. I've got it in my hands. They cover 155 pages, I believe, and are about health and social services. I really read there that the Netherlands imposes restrictions on almost no area, when it comes to commercial presentations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u223	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u224	Countries such as Austria, Slovenia, Poland, Cyprus, Finland and Denmark all have restrictions, but the Dutch government does not. Now I come back to the example of that ambulance service. What if that private is organized and we want to make that public? This is irreversible, because we have made no exceptions in the agreements. We can't reverse that in the future, if that's what we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u225	Most countries have a public health system. That is why you can see that in many of these conventions, including TTIP, there is an exception to the public health system. I have indicated that we have a private healthcare system, but that I am nevertheless in favour of exception from our healthcare system. So both our efforts are essentially no different; your efforts serve a different purpose than my efforts. I think that a national government should simply be able to decide on its own care system. We are talking about our own fees and we are talking about what medicines are in the package or not. We all want to keep it that way. The cabinet certainly has that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u226	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u227	It's about services. The cabinet makes no exception. Once a service has been liberalised, the "ratchet clause" applies, so that it can no longer be reversed. That's the problem. Why doesn't the cabinet just opt out for a full opt-out for those services in the healthcare sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u228	Minister, excuse me. I would really ask Mr Van Gerven to ask for shorter questions on his motions, otherwise there is really not enough time left for colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u229	I can only repeat that the cabinet's commitment is to exclude the Dutch healthcare system from undesirable influences of these trade agreements and that care is and remains a national matter. I see in Mr Van Gerven's motions only all kinds of observations that I cannot make and that he has opinions that I cannot share. That is why I reject this motion, not because it indicates that this system falls within national competence. If he adjusts that, we might be able to come to an end, but otherwise I'm gonna have to discourage the motion. On the subject of declarations, referred to in the motion on item No. 37, I believe that the standard is sensible and economical declaration, including in health care. I'm in agreement with the parties. It also includes a declaration of transparency. In spring, there will be an adapted governance code from the healthcare sector. This is now being discussed widely. Declarations are part of this, as are a lot of other subjects. I would like to see this motion held so that we can discuss all the issues together at the same time. If the motion isn't held, I'll advise against her. We are in good conversation about this. It's a step. I do not think it is right that it should take so long for it to be put in place, but such a motion is very disturbing the process. Then I come to the Van Gerven motion on part No. 38 on the prescription of specially prepared medicinal products. We have agreed on a method of working, inter alia, following oral questions in this Chamber. A good trial has begun. Insurers determine in the implementation what is covered by the general regulations of the law. As far as we are concerned, it is not intended that insurer A should approve a different preparation from insurer B. We have therefore agreed that insurers should discuss the implementation of what we have agreed. If one does not get out because it is complex, the Zorginstituut Nederland is called in. That's what I'm holding on to, also because I've spoken to the Healthcare Institute. It is really very afraid that if it is done in a different way and it gets everything on its plate, it will lose a lot of human strength and therefore not be due to other tasks. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u230	Mr Van Gerven, please be brief and concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u231	Steps have been taken. If it's okay, there'll be a uniform policy. Even then, there will be individual exceptions that are not forthcoming. I am not in favour of going along the path of the Healthcare Institute, in which all these resources, potentially hundreds, have to be tested. We are in favour of leaving it to the prescriber, the patient and the pharmacist in those very specific exceptional cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u232	The Zorginstituut Nederland must then ultimately determine whether something is covered by a collective claim. Otherwise, all kinds of medicines will be reimbursed which are not actually covered. That doesn't create an orderly system. We have a procedure now. In the majority of cases, insurance companies come out. Maybe there'll be a few left. That's why we're asking the Healthcare Institute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u233	In conclusion, Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u234	I would therefore urge that the whole circus of the review should not be used for that very small specialist group. I'm in favour of leaving that small group of specially prepared drugs to the care professional. It is not a question of new medicines. In my view, this is a very practical solution, allowing the Health Institute to do its job in the areas where it has its hands full.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u235	I agree with your efforts not to burden the Healthcare Institute with anything and anything else. I do think it is on its way to say about the few things on which there is a dispute whether it is covered or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u236	With that, do you dissuade the motion as it stands now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u237	Yes. Then I come to the Van Gerven motion on part No. 39, in which the government is asked to limit its own risk to €200 for 2016. We discussed it extensively in the debate. It's undesirable because of the behavioral effects. I also find it undesirable because of the financial effects. You can only wager reserves once. So they're going down for 2016, but the care costs aren't going down. They're gonna keep going. This means that we have to take a much bigger step in the next year in order to cover everything up. So it's just a one-time thing, and then you lose that money, too. You won't have it anymore in case you actually get into trouble and have to pay out healthcare providers. It is also not feasible as of 1 January 2016, because it requires a legislative amendment. I advise against this motion. Mr Van Gerven asked me whether I would like to solve the VAT problem for the care groups in the first line. I can tell him that at least I am busy talking to the Ministry of Finance, with the Secretary of State. It hasn't been solved yet, but it has my attention. I shall now turn to Mr De Lange's contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u238	Before you proceed, Mr Van Gerven has a really short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u239	I assume the Minister's goal is to solve it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u240	Sure. Otherwise, I'd think it was a waste of my time, too. In the motion-De Lange/Bouwmeester in part no. 41 The Government is invited to decide together to make the standard in healthcare by asking the Quality Institute to decide together to include it in the relevant medical protocols and guidelines and to report on it before the summer of 2016. Making decisions together is absolutely my priority. I see this motion as supporting policy and leave it to the Chamber. Mrs Bruins Slot asked for a report the NZa would have made on a menu approach to one's own risk. That is an investigation currently being carried out by the NZa. We have not yet received a report on this. I now come to the committee of financial experts. I tried to write with it, but it went pretty fast. There are a number of points that seem to me to be relevant issues at first hearing. However, we must be careful not to widen the scope of the mandate in order to ensure that it is effective and speeded up. I will pay you a visit to see if I have written them all down correctly and see if I can pass them on to that committee and if it has enough focus.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u241	The stenogram will probably be ready in a minute. I have spoken out exactly what the points are, so the Minister can read them back. I would like to hear from the Minister once and for all whether she can address all these issues, because they are precisely the concerns the CDA has about the financial elements of the changes we have in the healthcare system and, above all, about its transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u242	If the committee is present, I will forward the composition of the committee and the mandate to the Chamber. Then I have the Bruins Slot motion in part number. 44 requesting the Government to examine whether Article 19, second paragraph, of the Health Insurance Act can be amended in such a way that the annual indexation of own risk will be based on the original purpose of its own risk, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer of 2016. Its own risk must go hand in hand with care costs, wages and price adjustments. I find this motion undesirable because its implementation slowly but surely reduces its own risk in relation to the premium, which will increase the premium more rapidly. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u243	On the basis of the answers I received from the Minister, I had some suspicion that she would have no great enthusiasm for the plan itself. I have therefore deliberately asked her to investigate whether she would like to put the pros and cons together for once. Maybe the Minister will come to another insight?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u244	I don't need that investigation. I know there's a lot of thought going on about all kinds of variants of one's own risk. Within Healthcare Choices in Map, all kinds of questions were asked to the Central Planning Bureau. I don't think this is a good way to go. We have an index of our own risk, but also of the care allowance, I say to Mr Krol. It shall be indexed at the same time as its own risk. Then there is the Bruins Slot/Otwin van Dijk motion in part No. 45: calls on the Government to examine the advantages and disadvantages of including the criterion "medical necessity' in the provision of tools and to notify the Court of Justice of this for the adoption of the basic package in June 2016. We're working on a tool letter, and I'd like to take this with me. I do not want such an investigation to be too large, but I will see if I can do justice to it in that letter. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u245	It would be nice if the Minister would at least like to sit down with the field, the nurse's professional association or whatever the problem is, suppliers and the like, and have a legal analysis carried out on what is and is not possible. In fact, I do not think it is necessary to hire a huge research agency for this. If at least the Minister wants to take these two aspects and then make a proper assessment, I think there is a good and thorough investigation underneath.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u246	In the administrative consultations, this is already on the table and we are already discussing it. The bottlenecks have already been properly identified. I'm not sure we have the capacity to do it without an investigative agency. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. At least I'll take this in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u247	Is there a legal analysis of the possibility of including this within the current arrangements?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u248	Yeah, but I'm not sure we can man that with our own people. Maybe we'll get a lawyer to look at that from the outside. In the motion in part No. 46 the government is invited to examine how to promote the clear departure of motorists from approaching priority vehicles. I don't have a lot of eyes on this. It's not just about the ambulances, it's about the fire department and the police. It belongs to my colleague from Infrastructure and the Environment. We can do two things. Or Mrs. Bruins Slot will hold the motion and I'll make the request. Or I'll direct the request. However, I will not judge it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u249	Maybe we can choose the variant that there might be a letter from I and M sometime next week? That letter doesn't have to be in the Chamber by Tuesday. Then I will at least hold the motion, with the request for I and M to respond to the motion. If one can give the response for Tuesday, that is only nice. If it's after, we'll put the motion to the vote a week later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u250	I will pass the motion on to my colleague from I and M and ask if there is a bit of a speed with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u251	May I conclude that the motion in part No. 46 is under arrest?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u252	Yeah, but on the condition that I and M send a letter in two weeks. It would be nice if the chairman wanted to pass that on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u253	At the request of Mrs Bruins Slot, I propose her motion (34300-XVI, No. 46). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u254	Then the motion to part No. 51 by Ms Bouwmeester, in which the government is called upon to swiftly achieve the objective of patient-oriented communication with a timetable and to inform the Chamber before the summer of 2016. I can. We have made the objective clear. There are 30 conditions. We invest a lot to achieve this objective. The request is also to have the Health Care Institute Netherlands act as a driver for patient-oriented information. This is the focus of policy. I also wrote a letter about it recently. I see this motion as supporting policy and leave it to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. Mrs Bouwmeester asked the government to take into account in the legislative process that the control of insured persons, patients and clients at their healthcare institution and their insurer is increased, by allowing them to elect independently and give their control over services, quality of care, and use of profits, including independent support and funding. This is a bill made at the request of the First and Second Chambers. I have suggested that this should be done through the NZa, but at that time the Chamber said that it would rather be regulated by law. That law is ready, and it was supposed to go into consultation on Monday. This motion could not do that, because there are a number of things in it that are not in the law. In any case, this would result in delays for the law. In addition, control also involves liability. A legal analysis of its scope will therefore also be required. Our tour has not shown that there is a need for this. I also think it will not promote interest in participation. So I really do want to discourage this motion, both from a substantive and procedural point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u255	The answer is very disappointing, because it confirms a little what has happened over the last 20 years. Then it is said by the people who actually have the power in care, such as administrators and all kinds of other people...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u256	Your question, Mrs. Bouwmeester?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u257	...that there is no need for patient control. That is amazing, because the patient and client clubs have said massively that they want their members to have control.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u258	Ask the Minister your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u259	And also support and funding. The minister says, "I've never heard that before." So that's not gonna work out. That's why we filed the motion. The question to the Minister is the following. There's going to be an internet consultation right now. He can now be anonymous. Then what does the Minister think of the idea of making this Internet consultation fully public, making extra efforts to allow vulnerable patients and other people about whom this law is about to be able to really have a say in this, so that not only the power of the drivers is taken back?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u260	I do not think that Mrs Bouwmeester's remarks do justice to what has happened over the past period. The Kuiper motion has been filed in the First Chamber, which contains a detailed statement of what one would like to see regulated in this law. We then had a debate in this Chamber, in which a number of things were added. I put them all in this bill. Both the Lower House and the Upper House have thus provided extensive input. That's the bill as it stands. I have been encouraged several times, particularly by Mr Slob, to speed up. I really did my best to do that. So the bill is now ready for consultation. So I don't think it's right. The second part of the question concerns the consultation round. As far as I am concerned, others can participate in the consultation round. Afterwards, it will become more real if we get a lot of input. I don't mind that. I therefore have no objection to more people speaking in a consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u261	It is nice that the internet consultation takes place in public and that the minister actively invites people to do so. The Minister has just confirmed the need for this motion, because she says she does not recognise at all that people who want participation facilities. That's what the field wants. This underlines why it should be regulated in the law, because it does not happen automatically. The law is not made for the Upper House or the Lower House who say anything, but for people in the country who have not been in a position for a long time and for whom the Chamber now stands up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u262	I'm fine with it. I warn the House that it will certainly be delayed if this motion is adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u263	I would like to come back to the last point, namely that the Chamber is being warned of delay. However, this motion does not express the need to wait for the consultation round. We have expressly included in the motion that the idea of the motion should be taken into account in the consultation round of the law. That means just get started and take this with you in the consultation. The Chamber will get that back at some point, then we will talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u264	If I do something in consultation, I want that looked at legally. Otherwise, the trial will be a mess. There are elements in which lawyers really work with us and which they say should be given a good legal test. I can't just swing that into the world, 'cause we're gonna have a tough story. If we do something in consultation, VWS must be convinced that there is a law that works well and in which we manage things properly. We all care about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u265	I think that the Minister and I disagree on this. Mrs Bouwmeester has also confirmed that these are matters that are expressly wanted from the field.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u266	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u267	My point is that I would bring it into the consultation. At the end of the consultation, the Chamber can then still discuss it and lawyers can also look into it. Then we have a complete package on which we can debate again. Please do not allow the motion to be an incentive to hold the consultation, because that is not what it says, and that is not the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u268	The motion states that a number of things must be taken into account in the legislative process. A lot of things are then listed. I have to see how that could find a place in the law, don't I? I have to look carefully at whether such a law is feasible and legally sound. I can't pass a bill with a motion next to it, can I? Well, that's got to get a place, because it's in proportion to each other, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u269	This discussion of the procedure already indicates that there is confusion. I don't think that's a good idea. Can the Minister state once more what the government's opinion on this motion is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u270	Dissuade. Mr. Chairman. I come to the Bouwmeester/Bruins-Slot motion in part No. 53. It invites the government to discuss with healthcare providers and health insurers how these civil society organisations can better involve and integrate their environment in their intended policies and decisions in advance, as well as the role of the NZa in this regard. The Chamber should be informed of this before the summer of 2016. We see that many parties involve their environment very well and that other parties do not, where that is really a pity. We see that there are good processes, but also less good ones. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 54 is about purchasing policy. Purchasing policy was part of the law that was eventually killed in the First Chamber, namely the law on vertical integration. In doing so, we discussed the question of whether it would be good if a health insurance company became much more predictable in what he pays attention to when buying. To this end, he should make known his purchasing conditions before 1 April of the preceding year. In the Eerste Kamer but also in this Chamber the purchasing conditions have been discussed extensively. All kinds of criteria have been added, including through amendments. I recall that Mrs Dijkstra mentioned innovative companies and that Mr Van der Staaij brought in the diversity. That's how we made it with each other. We then decided that there would be no separate law, but that this would be invested in regulation through the NZa. That process is now under way. It is now in a phase that it can begin. Just before it starts, there will be a motion asking for adjustments to be made. That's exactly what drives the field crazy. We ask for things that are very labour-intensive and then at the last minute we change the rules of the game. You can also get this started. If there are no guidelines for anything, one insurer will say that he has taken a directive from Germany, while the other insurer will choose another directive after a discussion with the profession. The whole purchasing process is of course about care content. Have the NZa monitor that. At the end of the year there will be a report on this. Then we can set up a learning cycle with each other. This is better than changing the rules just before it enters into force. I strongly advise against this motion. In motion No. 61 calls on Mrs Klever to ensure that asylum seekers pay their own care costs. I have already indicated that this motion should be submitted to the budget for security and justice. It determines exactly what's in the claim. The claim has been established on the fact that an asylum seeker has no chance to work. He doesn't make a living himself, so he doesn't pay his own bounty. He's in that temporary situation depending on what's being offered. I advise against this motion. In her motion in part No. 29 Ms Klever asked the government to reduce the care package for asylum seekers to urgent medical care. As with the previous motion, the Ministry of Security and Justice is concerned in particular with this package. I would like to point out that this is incredibly difficult. If you've patched someone up with emergency care, but he's not taking his pills, you can fix them up after a while. The situation does not improve structurally. I'm dissuading the motion. In her motion in part No. 63 Ms Dijkstra indicated that the patient's prior consent was required before access to the patient's file. We have made strict regulations in this area. A health insurance company can't just look into a patient file. It's about medical confidentiality. The fact that an appointment is placed on an agenda is already covered by medical confidentiality. How can an insurer verify that the agreement has actually been implemented? That can only be done if there is reason for it, if it is well argued and if the whole cycle has gone through. An insurer must be able to control material expenditure. Strict rules have been laid down. I am also sure that I am prepared to give the Chamber a proper look when it is allowed to do something. If access is possible only with the consent of the patient, it will be constantly harassed with questions about controls, while he may be pleased that the health insurance company does so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u271	I understand what the Minister says, it's difficult. It has already indicated this in the written reply. I'm prepared to hold this motion. Is it possible for the Minister to put all this together in a letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u272	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u273	What are the guarantees for patients, that their data will continue to be covered by professional secrecy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u274	That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u275	At the request of Mrs Pia Dijkstra, I propose her motion (34300-XVI, No. 63). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u276	The motion in part No. 64 is about psychosocial care and calls on the government to engage with interested parties to identify bottlenecks and to work together to find solutions. We've been talking for almost a year. It has already been found that this has not been properly arranged. If you have a very serious disease, this is not just part of it, then you shouldn't wait until the end, until you think it's all gotten much worse, but then you should actually let it go right at the beginning. We started oncology and looked at how that could go straight away. So the bottlenecks have already been identified. We are already working on solutions. I can send those solutions to the Chamber in the spring. It all needs to be dealt with properly. After all, this is an issue that you simply want to include in the standard treatment. You want to see if there's a need for this by default.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u277	What is the verdict on this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u278	If the motion is amended, I can leave the verdict to the Chamber. Now, before the end of the year, I have to say that I have been talking for a long time, that we already have the bottlenecks in sight and that we are working on a solution. Of course, I am going to inform the Chamber as soon as that solution is in place, and I will let you know on which parts all of these relate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u279	The motion was motivated just to give the process some speed. In fact, it was important to me that we be informed about it quickly. If the Minister says that this is absolutely impossible, it will be very difficult. Isn't it possible to hear about that earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u280	It says "spring" here. I can also, of course, promise that at the beginning of the year we will outline the state of play, where we are now, where we have not yet come from and what we have already achieved together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u281	Then I'll adjust the motion accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u282	The motion in part No. 64 is amended and the Minister leaves the opinion to the Chamber, if I have understood her correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u283	Yes. In the motion in part No. 65 the government is invited to identify the obstacles and to find solutions together with health insurers and innovative providers. I'm worried about the same thing. I just found another solution. We've inventoried. Somehow you can see that these bottlenecks are very heavy. We'll check them all out to solve them. To bring in the speed, I've set up the Innovation Center Cure. That is where I am going to give the opportunity to bring about at least 15 initiatives, whether they fit or not. If there are rules to be postponed, they should be postponed. I would not really like to lose our energy in inventory, but rather to see in practice how we can really take steps here. I will regularly inform the Chamber of progress. Due to the request for inventory, I'd like to discourage the motion. We have really taken a different path, namely from studying again to doing ordinary things. Then we will simply see where the bottlenecks are and we will be able to get on with it. From Mrs Dik-Faber I have a motion and an amendment on the multidisciplinary directive. What I find a bit difficult is that she says that the profession considers it important. The profession gets funding to make guidelines. If it is financed from the budget every time the profession says that it is important in the Chamber, then I can stop funding the scientific associations or the funding that we separately allocate to it. It's part of the normal action you make guidelines. That is why I do not recommend the amendment to item No 2 of the motion for a resolution. 59. With regard to the motion, I would first like to have a discussion with the Quality Institute and with the parties on whether it is considered to be of such importance that we are already working on a route. The Quality Institute comes into the picture if problems arise because a patient wants something other than a scientific association or an insurer. We are not supposed to put in all kinds of guidelines at the Quality Institute with the remark "go ahead and make them." The field has to make the guidelines. If they do not do so quickly enough, the Quality Institute can intervene. I would also like to keep that order, and I would advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u284	I've been in touch with the field. That directive has been under way for five years. They want it very much, but they do not get it off the ground, hence amendment and motion. I hear what the Minister says about the amendment. I think this might just give the necessary push, so I'm keeping the amendment in the air. I would like to amend my motion because I also hear the Minister say that it is up to the professions themselves to develop a directive. If care gets in the way, and that's what's going on, I hear from doctors themselves, the Quality Institute can jump in. I want to see if I can change the motion. Something really is going on. We have a directive for children with down syndrome, but these children are now 60 years old and even older. So there is definitely a need. I'm on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u285	If the motion is changed in that order, I'd like to judge her with "judge chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u286	The motion in part No. 68 is therefore amended. If this is done in accordance with the spirit of the reply, the judgment is for the Court to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u287	First the profession, then the Quality Institute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u288	Yes, and the amendment on which you gave an opinion concerns the amendment on item No. 59.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u289	Yes. I'll come to the motion in part No. 70 by Mrs Voortman c.s. It invites the government to examine "how this model can be introduced into the Dutch healthcare system, including the possible benefits of this model, and to include this in the future pharmaceutical policy vision." The pharmaceutical vision is due at the end of this year. It is therefore impossible to carry out such an investigation, otherwise one will have to wait for the other. I myself think that we in the Netherlands have a good mix of procurement by suppliers, insurers but also the government if we believe that providers or insurers are not strong enough. The very expensive medicines without alternatives are already regulated by the government itself. I am not convinced that it will be cheaper if I start negotiating, but that it will be more bureaucratic. I would therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u290	Hence my proposal to investigate. We do not know now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u291	Shall I first take stock of what we already know about the model? The kiwi model is not new, so there will be a lot of research already. Let me get that together first. Is that an idea? Then we don't have to do any double work. I'd like to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u292	Yeah, I'll hold my motion until then. When are we gonna get that inventory?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u293	That depends on how quickly we find things, but I will at least inform you about the state of play with regard to this inventory in the context of the pharmaceutical vision, before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u294	I'll hold my motion for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u295	At the request of Mrs Voortman, I propose her motion (34300-XVI, No. 70). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u296	I'll come to the motion in part No. 71 in which the government is invited "to examine measures to encourage prevention, such as, for example, a 1% prevention fund of the health insurance premium or a better definition of prevention measures covered by the basic insurance scheme, to consult with healthcare insurers Netherlands and patient organisations and to inform the Chamber about this before the summer of 2016." We have had the Wolbert motion with the order for payment titles. This motion is actually asking for a new investigation. I never mind doing research, because it can always be better, but I would say: let's wait and see the research that has already been seriously deployed. If information is missing, we can have additional research conducted into the missing information. I therefore advise against this motion. How is the burn aid arranged if there is a disaster like this in Bucharest? Of course, that's horrible. It reminds us of a situation that we have also had in the Netherlands. We have very good expertise. I don't know how that's arranged. I really should check that out. I'll come back to that later. I can think of something, but you're not waiting for it either. So I'll come back to that later. I can check with the Foreign Minister, and I can let the Chamber know within two weeks whether and if so, how and what we contribute to it. In the Krol motion on part No. 82 the government is invited to pay particular attention in the revised prevention note to the coordination and effectiveness of prevention activities aimed at the elderly. I'll leave the verdict on that motion to the Chamber. I've already promised. In the Krol motion on part No. 83 the government is invited to encourage all health insurers to take the medication assessment out of their own risk. I think that a medical assessment is very important, but I really leave it to the insurers to decide what they want and what they do not want to take out of their own risk. If we start doing this, we will have to deal with a long list of things that we can ask the question about: wouldn't that be part of it? Then I would step into the responsibilities that lie primarily with the health insurance companies. So I'm deceiving the motion. In the Kuzu motion in part No. 85 the government is invited to conduct an international competition on the creation and composition of prices of medical devices, including maintenance contracts above €75,000 in Europe. The resource sector is really very diverse. I know that because we're negotiating. That goes from very small things, from things in your body and outside your body, from very simple things to high-tech. When you ask for an investigation like that, you don't just ask for something. That really has a lot to do. I think that insurers are making incredibly big blows right now. We also see in the figures that they take the purchase much better. The aid providers tell me that they may be doing too well sometimes. I'd like to focus the energy on that for the time being. I think we should do that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u297	If information comes from tool suppliers, I would say: take it with a grain of salt, because of course there are all kinds of interests behind it. I don't have to tell the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u298	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u299	We have explicitly included in the motion the amount of €75,000. I understand from the Minister's words that she sees the problem. It is a diverse sector, but it is precisely for this reason that we have formulated the limit of €75,000. Anything up there, we'd like to have it examined. It is indeed expensive medical equipment which we know is much cheaper abroad than in the Netherlands. Why should we allow ourselves in the Netherlands to be squeaked by the tool industry?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u300	I agree. Nor do I look at the blue eyes of the tool industry; I see it in my budget. In that I see that there is a better purchase. I can also see that much more is being bought in together when working in the country. It makes a difference whether each hospital buys its own things or is going to work together in the purchase. In the latter case, there is much more power in the negotiations with the aid industry. You see, that's a lot more coming out. Because we are making this change now, I would say: let us use our energy to do so. The Chamber can always decide to have an investigation done. I do not recommend the motion, because I think we should use our energy for other things. If you want to know this, you need to have an intensive, wide-ranging, large research, which in turn comes under the research budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u301	I get that point. I am open to suggestions to formulate it more precisely so that we can really succeed. However, my question to the Minister is: what harm can it do to do that? Even if it takes a little longer than we have in mind, we can achieve the profits that can be achieved. So what's the harm?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u302	If the responsible insurers themselves have to sit on the blisters when they're not doing well, nothing gives a strong push like that. Insurers have really made a change and buy much sharper in the tool sector. What happened with the drugs is slowly getting off the ground with the medical devices. They can do that much smarter and more accurate than we would if we could pull out such an overall investigation. However, it is not impossible. The Kuzu motion in part No. 86 is about drawing-by-the-cross practices. We have just gone through a whole process in which we have seen, after the review of the Health Insurance Act, that this has gone far too far and that the insurer's power towards the individual professional has become far too strong. We then organized a tour of the Netherlands to see how we could organise it in such a way that an individual professional has more to do with the quality and in the way of organizing rather than something to sign or not to sign. We have continued this process with the general practitioners and continue it with other professionals, i.e. the field parties. I don't think an inventory is necessary, but we'll take it up. I can reassure Mr Kuzu: we are on top of it and take it up. I wouldn't do an inventory right now because we're already in the process of solving it. Therefore, I advise against the motion. In the motion-Van Klaveren to piece No. 88 the government is asked to examine the way in which patients in the Netherlands can be exempted from paid parking at the hospital. I understand that Mr Van Klaveren thinks that there are far too many burdens on the collective and that everyone has to stand up for themselves much more. However, it is the second time that he asks whether the costs you incur can not be paid by someone else. I find that somewhat inconsistent, but I cannot discuss this with Mr Van Klaveren because he is now gone. I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u303	Mr Van Klaveren has signed off on the rest of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u304	I have two more amendments to discuss. The spirit of the Van Gerven amendment, which has been amended, in part No. 78 is no different from the original amendment to item No. 16. The judgment therefore remains the same: dissuade. The spirit of the Van Gerven amendment, which has been amended, in part No. 81 is also no different from the original amendment to item No. 23. We also discussed this in the debate. I'm not gonna let it get away with it. First of all, I would like to make sure that Zorginstituut Nederland takes a good look at it so that we can settle this right now. Appropriate use is, in fact, the only way in which this can actually be regulated collectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u305	There is also Amendment No 1, tabled by Mr Voortman. 32, that's about sports and moving.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u306	That amendment is about the hockey team. I said I'm going to have a conversation and I'm going to let the WHO know what the results are. I've already advised against the amendment. I hope that we will not be able to do so at all, but that we already have a solution for the WHO.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u307	I do hope that there will be a solution, because that will allow me to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u308	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u309	A further question has remained as a result of a motion that has been adopted and is being carried out to identify the different nutritional concepts of hospitals and to integrate nutrition into care. Is it possible to indicate to the Steering Group on Malnutrition, which is now working out the motion, that funding is also being mapped out? I realize that this research is ongoing and I do not know if it is possible, but perhaps we can map and learn from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u310	I'd like to do my best to do that. I also do not know if we can do it anymore and what stage we are in. However, I would like to see where we are. If it's still possible to give it to you, we'll give it to you, and if we can't do it anymore, we'll be too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u311	The Minister thus came to the end of her reply. I am happy to give the floor to the Secretary of State for his answer in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u312	Mr. Chairman. There is a question from Mrs Dijkstra about the healthy school. I am making it just as broad as the healthy school canteens and the non-smoking school grounds. Currently there is a programme for non-smoking school grounds until mid-2017. During the last AO Tobacco, I promised that I would look with the Ministry of Education at what further measures are possible to encourage schools to develop non-smoking school areas. I agree that I will inform the Chamber in December of the results of the consultation with education. There is also a programme in the area of healthy school canteens. More than 1,100 school locations have received tailor-made advice and 84% of the recommended schools have started working on the range. Following the Wolbert motion, we will look at how parents and teachers can be more involved in the development of healthy school canteens, so that the will to have healthy school canteens is not just with the teacher, but also with the parents and the youth themselves. In the Van Gerven motion to item No. 40 the government is asked to ensure that patients can rely on the provision of terminal care by their trusted healthcare provider. It is, of course, complicated to guarantee at this place that everyone can appeal to the trusted healthcare provider. In the Van der Staaij/Dik-Faber motion to item No. 80 are already being asked to promote palliative care. That seems to me to be a better way to achieve the same goal, shared by all of us. For that reason, I advise against the motion in part No. 40.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u313	Mr Van Gerven has a question. It's gonna be a short question, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u314	I don't get it. The Secretary of State makes a link to the motion in part No. 80 on palliative care. He says that this motion is a little in line with the motion I tabled in part No. 40. Then he dissuade my motion, while he will probably say that the motion in part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u315	In the motion in part No. 40 is asked to ensure that everyone can always contact the healthcare provider of their choice. I can't guarantee that. We can guarantee that the necessary care is provided. For that reason, there is a duty of care, so there must be good buying in. I very much agree that it is necessary to prevent people from suffering from this by failing to buy enough care. That's where the motion in part No. 80 on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u316	Mr Van Gerven, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u317	The motion in part No. 40 considers that a person who is given care by a district nurse, in the possible subsequent terminal phase, may have the same district nurse. Does the Secretary of State agree that this should be secured and that this is in fact in line with the motion in part No. 80?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u318	As much as possible. It must be guaranteed that anyone who is entitled to terminal care will also receive that care. It must therefore be ensured that sufficient terminal care is purchased. I am prepared to talk to the health insurance companies about further guaranteeing that care is spared. However, I cannot guarantee in this place that it is always the caregiver of your choice. People must be given proper care to which they are entitled. That's gotta be locked up. In the motion-Potters in part No. 42 The government is asked to develop a new standard based on the quality of the institutions themselves and to send it to the Chamber by the summer of 2016. We have discussed this at length. I believe that we have noted that a fine majority of the coalition, at least formed by the coalition, is in agreement on how the funds are being spent and on how we would develop the new quality standard. I have already said that I have a three-stage rocket in mind: to develop a good advance and to develop a quality framework based on it, which will then be used by the inspection. I would also like to make an undertaking that I will see if I can send the 'first pitch' of the quality framework to the Chamber for the AA on 18 November. I made a number of commitments. The motion in part No. 42 is a policy support. Perhaps Mr Potters would like to see this combined before the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u319	And your judgment is then?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u320	I found it to support policy, so I leave the judgment to the Chamber, but it is my preference if the motions are combined.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u321	The Secretary of State makes a full plea as to why this motion is unnecessary and then ultimately the Court of Justice is the judge. Oh, come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u322	It contains elements that we discussed in the debate. I have no objection to these being recorded, but I have asked the petitioner to consider whether this motion can be combined with earlier motions. This secretary of state is sometimes a little mild.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u323	Interrupts are running through the Interrupt Microphone. I give the floor to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u324	In order to get it sharp, the motion states the operative part that it will be necessary to send some to the Chamber in six months' time. The last thing we want is for quality improvements to be delayed. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that this motion won't ruin his life?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u325	That is why I made an additional commitment on the motion you tabled earlier, namely to discuss the first concept of the quality framework as soon as possible. The answer to that is yes. I would like to try to send that to the Chamber before the AA of 18 November. In the motion-Potters c.s. in piece No. 43 is requested to prepare the next person's funding in an AMvB and send it to the Chamber for the summer. Just as sharp: the possibility of an AMvB is already there. It is now a question of the interpretation and the practical translation of it. I would prefer to have the debate on the renewal agenda in accordance with the previous commitments. That includes the next person's funding. Then we'll see how that goes down in an AMvB. The motion refers to the summer of 2016, but if I may read the motion in such a way that we base it on the debate on the renewal agenda that we will have earlier, I consider this policy support and leave it to the Chamber. In the motion-Bruins Slot/Keijzer to piece No. 47 it is said that the claim for children should be returned to community care and is asked to adjust the claim for community care accordingly. That would mean a change of law. I wanted to do that as practically as possible. I see that there are occasional problems with connection. This will also be the subject of information. I will come to the Bergkamp motion on this later. It has to be clear to people. I want to be very practical about this. I am actively working to make things clear and to provide the right information, but let us not solve this by changing the system or changing the law. For that reason, I would like to discourage this motion. Then I come to the Bruins Slot/Keijzer motion in part No. 48, to ensure that people with profiles zzp 3 and 4 are still eligible for a Wlz indication. We discussed this in the debate and in the written questions. Access to the Long-Term Care Act is determined on the basis of health-related criteria. So there is no looking at the old care packages. Sometimes it's not quite clear in advance which law you're subject to. This has to do with those care-related criteria. I am going to clarify this with all those involved. Yesterday we received further parliamentary questions from Mrs Keijzer, which we will also answer as soon as possible. That's why I'd like to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u326	In doing so, the CDA Group withdraws the support it gave to the Kunduz agreement for the extramuralisation ofzzp 1 to 3. A majority of them have fallen away. How's the Secretary of State handling that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u327	It seems to me best if the question of whether the majority in the Chamber has fallen away is answered by that party and not by me. I work on the basis of the majorities that have emerged for various legislative proposals in this Chamber. We're implementing those laws now, and I'm going to abide by them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u328	The Secretary of State has implemented that the funding of zzp 3 has stopped. The CDA Group withdraws its support for this. My question is, how does the Secretary of State deal with stopping that support? He doesn't have a majority for it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u329	I think we're talking about another subject. This is about thezzp 3 and 4 in the care for the mentally handicapped, but not about the care and nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u330	No, Mrs. Agema. The interruptions go in two. The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u331	(NL) Mr President, this is factually wrong, because allzzp's 1 to 3 are not covered by the Kunduz agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u332	Thank you. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u333	I think we have different views on that. The motion-Bruins Slot/Keijzer in part No. 49 ensure that the AMvB is amended to take account of the amendment mentioned therein, so that the amendment can be implemented. However, my objections to the substance remain the same. I do not think it is appropriate to reduce the health allowance in order to make money available for the implementation of this amendment, particularly for lower incomes. I would therefore advise against this motion. In the motion-Bruins Slot/Keijzer to piece No. 50 insurers are asked to spend 200 million extra on community care and to cover this from a more effective purchase for hospitals. The insurers have a duty of care. They also have a duty of care to purchase adequate care facilities. We exchanged that with each other. On the basis of the results achieved, we will discuss whether the budgetary framework is sufficient or whether it needs to be raised. For this reason, I advise against the motion. In the motion-Otwin van Dijk/Krol in part No. 55 the government is asked to inform the Chamber as soon as possible how it is ensured that clients and staff can talk about the use of additional funds for nursing care. This has been discussed extensively in the debate. I've reported my initial ideas on that. I am in consultation with the various stakeholders on this issue. I consider this motion to be a policy support. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. In the motion-Otwin van Dijk/Voortman in part No. 56 the government is invited to inform the Chamber of the bottlenecks experienced by citizens' initiatives and health cooperatives. The motion mentions the date of 1 March 2016. I would prefer a little more space so that I can take a closer look at the practice. If that can be "before the summer," I'd like to leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u334	I see Mr Van Dijk nodding in agreement. Is an amended motion tabled for this purpose, or is the interpretation of the motion part of the debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u335	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u336	The latter is the case. Then it's judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u337	Then I will go into the motion-Otwin van Dijk/Bergkamp in part No. 57. It calls on the government to encourage professionalisation in social work. In the debate I said that it is a primary concern of employers and employees to see how they do this in their training plan. However, I am very much in favour of it, because the link between care and well-being is growing. For this reason, I would like to leave this motion to the House. In the Otwin van Dijk/Tanamal motion in part No. 58 the government is invited to develop an agenda to encourage participation and to provide more information on care and work. The way I see it now, I could carry out this motion in three ways. One. In Dignity and pride, we are going to take the issue of client councils with us rather emphatically, thus encouraging participation. Two. We have just launched a campaign on the possibilities of work and care, but I acknowledge that this may still be very underexposed. Three. I would like to look at the proceeds of this in order to find out whether we want to make a deepening effort in this area. If the authors agree to this interpretation, I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. Mrs Agema asked the government to guarantee freedom of choice in the district care. I'm a little confused, because insurers need to be able to shop selectively. From the patient's point of view, the purchase must indeed be such that there is sufficient freedom of choice. There is no evidence that this is not the case. In fact, there are still signs that many different types of care are being purchased. In the debate we also talked about pilots which are somewhat obstructive. That's why I'd like to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u338	This is a very strange response in the context of the topicality we have discussed today and in previous debates, and also in relation to the 23 terminal patients who have been refused care. The point is that the patient must have freedom of choice from suppliers. When the cake's gone, they won't have that freedom of choice. The Secretary of State must guarantee that freedom and otherwise he must indicate which parties in the Chamber support him in the view that people no longer need to have freedom of choice when the cake is gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u339	Mrs Agema would be right if there was only one provider, if there was not enough care and no one can go anywhere. That is certainly not the case in community care. If one provider is at its budget ceiling, it can be checked if there are other providers. I just turned that in. There's always a duty of care. The health insurance company is obliged to buy in sufficient care. There are no signs that there would be insufficient freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u340	So those signals are there, and that's why I'm asking the Chamber to tell the Secretary of State that she's not gonna take this. You need to be able to choose a provider, even when the cake is gone and even when the contracts are divided so that one very popular provider does not have enough space and another more. I don't think we'll accept any of that. I have already asked the Secretary of State: who supports him in that policy? I don't think anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u341	That must be demonstrated in the vote. However, the cake will never be such that the duty of care cannot be fulfilled. In the motion in part No. 66 the government is invited to facilitate comprehensive and timely information for parents of 18-year-old children in the Wlz. If there is a lack of clarity, this will indeed lead to a lot of discussion and discomfort on the part of the parents concerned. I want to check that ambiguity and then see what we can do about it. For that reason, I would like to leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 67 the government is asked to clarify the re-indication quickly. As I indicated in the written reply, the purpose of the re-indication is precisely to provide clarity as soon as possible. When we talked about the Wlz indication, we said that we would make a provision and then re-indicate it as soon as possible. That was meant to clarify things. In this way, as from 1 January 2017, the regime under which everyone is covered must be completely clear. I am prepared to look with all the parties concerned at the uncertainties that remain, so that uncertainty and unrest can be avoided. If I may interpret the motion in this way, I'll leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u342	The Secretary of State may interpret the motion in this way, but some uncertainty arose from his response. It says that he expects an overwhelming majority of clients to be able to be offered customised in a regular manner. There's uncertainty there. I think we agreed that in 2017 people are entitled to the customised profiles if they need them. I just wanted to add that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u343	The sentence was intended to indicate that I too would like to keep a close eye on whether the existing possibilities provide sufficient security. So we need to see if that's true. In the motion in part No. 69 the government is asked to ensure the size and effectiveness of specialist guidance and care for young mothers up to 23 years of age. We talked about the JSO investigation I'm about to send to the Chamber. I'll try to do that before Christmas. It contains an analysis of the facilities available and the state of care for teenage mothers. On that basis, we can see if there are any bottlenecks that we need to address. I would like to ask the authors whether they wish to continue the motion following this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u344	And if that is not the case, will you pass judgment on to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u345	I would like to await the opinion of the proposers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u346	That's good. We'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u347	At the request of Mrs Dik-Faber, I propose her motion (34300-XVI, No. 69). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u348	I'm getting to the motion on part No. 72m, which calls for tailor-made solutions to put an end to additional requirements that impede access to the personalised budget. I think this conclusion is too early, especially since in the debate I undertook to monitor this very closely, both in the Health Insurance Act and with the municipalities. I promised earlier that I would take stock of this on the basis of this monitoring and report it to the Chamber. So I'll come back to this. At this stage, I would like to ask the petitioner to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u349	When can we expect that? We have already received several signals about municipalities that impose additional requirements. Recently, for example, there was the judge's ruling on the Groninger municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u350	I want an image of the year 2015. That means I could take this to the Chamber in the first quarter of 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u351	In that case, I'll hold the motion for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u352	At the request of Mrs Voortman, I propose her motion (34300-XVI, No. 72). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u353	In the motion in part No. 73 the government is asked to take measures to keep the unspent household aid budget available for subsequent years. This is about the household aid allowance. It might be good to take a look at what is meant by this. This is money from the municipality, which went to the municipality in the context of the decentralisation of benefits. I don't have a say in that anymore, but the city does. I do not intend to recover it, but I cannot oblige municipalities to continue spending it on the household aid allowance. I do expect them to do so, and I am also prepared to appeal to them. In that sense, I am thinking of meeting the intention of the motion, so perhaps the petitioner can withdraw this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u354	The Secretary of State states that he is going to appeal to the municipalities. I assume he will do so in the short term. In that case, I can withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u355	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u356	Since the Voortman/Dik-Faber motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u357	In the motion in part No. 74 the government is invited to decouple government subsidies and sponsorship in consultation with the Alliance Stop Child Marketing. That's going too far for me. I said that in the debate. I think it is very good to occasionally look at how the food industry takes its social responsibility in the area of nutrition and marketing for children. I do not want to burden the consultation with the possibility that there will never be a grant again. Moreover, I am not interested in extending it very much, to say euphemistically. We are in consultation with the Alliance Stop Child Marketing to see if we could pursue an even more active policy to properly monitor that marketing. A number of programmes have also been launched. Next year, an action plan on social media will be launched to ensure that compliance is improved. For that reason, I would like to discourage this motion. In the motion in part No. 75 the government is invited to examine, in consultation with the social partners and the VNG, how to promote a longer-term grant by municipalities through multi-annual contracts. I think it is very important that this happens slowly but surely. I would point out that Doekle Terpstra's code is intended to encourage the creation of more long-term contracts. Mrs Voortman pointed that out as well. I do want to encourage this further. That is why I leave this motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 76 the government is asked to examine with the health offices how to provide multi-annual contracts. I am prepared to bring this further to the attention of the health offices, which, moreover, are increasingly seeking to buy multi-annual care. I shall therefore leave this motion to the Chamber. In their motion in part No. 77 members of Van der Staaij and Bruins Slot ask the government to encourage municipalities, health insurance companies and health care agencies to continue to standardise procurement. This will require different actions from these three parties. I have already said in the debate that I consider this to be very important. Therefore, I should like to leave the opinion on this motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 78 the government is asked to investigate how the concept of Nursing Topzorg can be implemented nationally. The UMCG has initiated this Nursing Topzorg, an interesting development. I still want to study this. The request to see if this can be followed up, I consider to be a policy support. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. On the motion in part No. 80, which we have already discussed, I have said that I am promoting, in consultation with the health insurance companies, that palliative care at home is spared from the reversals of community care. We have all spoken out how important it is for people to have good care in it. It is also in line with the recent letter of Parliament which states that the palliative core facilities must be maintained as much as possible. Thanks to my contacts in the country, I know that insurers are very aware of this. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 84 the government is asked to encourage Wi-Fi to be made available as easily as possible. Although I am in favour of this, I think that this is really a matter for the management of institutions. I do not think it is right for the Chamber to promote this on a section. For this reason, I reject the motion, although I take note of the opinion of the Chamber that the promotion of e-health and home automation, which is part of it, should receive a great deal of attention in the coming period. That will happen, because I share that view. In the motion in part No. 87 calls on Mr Kuzu to promote cultural sensitivity. It is true that care for the elderly will increasingly be faced with people with a migrant background, making culture sensitivity important. That is why I leave the motion to the Chamber. I have to improvise a little, because I am not sure which amendments are expected from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u358	On the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. (Parliament adopted the resolution) 90.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u359	The amendment in part No. 31 looks at a specific grant for the Expertise Network Life Questions and Older People. I reject this amendment, not because I do not think it is useful, but because it is the responsibility of the municipalities to promote this type of activity. I do not think it is right to provide one specific organisation with an additional subsidy. That is why I reject the amendment. The amendment in part No. 90 the question whether an additional amount can be allocated to carers under the non-compulsory part of policy Article 4. The same applies to this. Municipalities have a duty to support carers. It's secured by the law. For this, additional money was also provided to the municipalities. This amendment would be at the expense of the article which strengthens the position of the client and the professional. That is why I reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u360	Indeed, issues of meaning for the elderly lie on the board of municipalities. They're working on it. Local networks are emerging, but I see that there is a great need for expertise and that municipalities often want to, but cannot. They need expertise. Can the Secretary of State imagine that we will support an organisation like this once a year to help the municipalities? The following year, it could end up in the Wmo. That is the intention behind the amendment. Eventually it must end up in the Wmo.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u361	As meaningful as I think it is, I find it difficult to deal with one organisation separately. However, I must say that I will once again discuss separately with the UNG how we can indeed promote these very important activities for many older people and draw sufficient attention to them. I am wary of giving one organisation extra money, while more organisations will be active in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u362	Very brief, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u363	I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment to discuss this issue with the UNG. To my knowledge, this is the institution that has the expertise in this area. I do not want to put other organisations at a disadvantage, but this is the organisation that is very active in this area. The very small number of networks currently operating is also supported by this organisation. She just likes to give it an impulse.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u364	That is what I take with me in consultation with the VNG.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u365	I think I left a question to the Minister. This concerns Mr De Lange's amendment on the emergency app for heart problems. However, there is also the Heart Rate appNow. My question is whether these do not overlap. So there are two apps. I asked the Minister through Mr De Lange whether she would consider whether this would be a risk if this amendment were adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u366	Mr Van der Staaij, do you have a question for the Secretary of State? Then I suggest you ask it first. Then I'll look in the direction of the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u367	I asked a question about the amendment to item No. 27, that is, whether the wording chosen at present does not prevent it from focusing on a single organisation. I don't know if the Secretary of State has been able to look at it yet. Otherwise it might come back to the Youth legislative consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u368	It can indeed come back to the Youth legislative consultation. I find the wording very creative. However, I think it would be wise to put the municipalities first in the position of assuming their responsibilities without providing a specific element of additional funding. I will therefore stick to my judgment, namely that I am not recommending the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u369	Let me take a look at the Minister for the question on the amendment to item No. 29. The judgment has already been given, but Mr Van Gerven has a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u370	I agree with Mr De Lange. Of course, we have to work together in this. It has to be additional.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u371	The votes on the motions will take place next week. The votes on the amendments will take place in December. I would like to thank the heads of government, the Minister and the State Secretary, and their official support for their contribution to this debate and for their response. I would like to thank Members for their input.
