ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-19.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last month, we talked about a number of issues that concern the judiciary and the police. I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to come forward with a letter after the summer following a discussion with the case-law on the adaptation of the directives on heavy arms trade. He will also discuss with the Public Prosecutor whether there is a need for a special firearms officer. This afternoon, Mr Krol drew attention to a new variant of mobile banditism, namely travelling around fraudulent Irish handymen. There will be another letter, but the CDA Group is asking the Minister to state clearly whether the police and the judiciary currently have these gangs in their sights, whether they are dealing with them and whether they are currently getting knowledge from colleagues in the United Kingdom. Can the Minister describe in the promised letter how English legislation has made these gangs miserable and what we can learn from it? The RFID chip is currently being tested to combat license fraud. That is a good idea, but privacy concerns have been raised by a number of parties. Would it not be an idea to keep up the momentum in this file by asking for advice from the Personal Data Protection College? Then there can be a reaction from the cabinet immediately after the test results have been published. I also have a question in connection with the start of the new football season. The latest progress report on motorways indicates that all regions of outlaw motorcycle gangs are sitting in the stands of paid football clubs. The report states that the LSO will keep its finger on the pulse. The CDA Group thinks that this is rather lean, given the clear presence of those members at the football clubs. Will the maximum use be made of infiltration and possibilities for police spotters next year? Finally, I shall table a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas mobile robbing gangs damage the retail trade for around EUR 250 million per year;]] [[Whereas Retailers have indicated to the Netherlands and the police that current laws and regulations hinder them from exchanging information, including camera images, for the prevention of theft and the detection of the perpetrators;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with Retailer Netherlands and the police, to resolve these obstacles and, if necessary, to come forward with proposals to improve the exchange of information and inform the Court of Justice of this for the next budget handling of Security and Justice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Oskam and Mr Tellegen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29911-110]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-19.u2	Mr. Chairman. I have a very nice motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the figures given by the Minister for Security and Justice on the working stock (also known as plank matters) and the signals from the workplace do not entirely correspond;]] [[Whereas it is very important to know how many cases the detective is not entitled to, or unable to detect;]] [[calls on the government to clarify how much work is currently available and, if possible, to specify how many cases could be organised crime, and to inform the Court of Justice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29911-111]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-19.u3	The Minister and I have had a fairly frequent exchange of views in written questions, I have become angry in a debate and I have tabled a motion on good working shoes for the agents in Tilburg. I went to work there with Mr Oskam. They had to go into drug labs on sneakers and then work in hydrochloric acid. I was very angry that the Minister didn't want to take care of this. But half an hour ago, I got the message that these cops finally got good work shoes and a good uniform. I may have been a little mad at the Minister, but we got our way, I'd almost say. Of course, that's not the point, because especially for the cops, this is very good news. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-19.u4	Mr. Chairman. If we are going to give compliments, I would like to thank the Minister for having sent us the document on the legal anchoring of special care for police officers at the end of the recess. We have held a general discussion on organised crime. During this consultation, I spoke with the Minister about the specialist capacity of detectives. It is not enough to be able to take a serious blow to serious organised crime. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that tackling organised crime is one of the priorities in the 2015-2018 Security Agenda;]] [[Whereas there is insufficient specialist capacity to deal effectively with organised crime;]] [[calls on the Government to take short-term action to increase the quantitative and qualitative strength of the investigation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Berndsen-Jansen and Mr Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29911-112]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-19.u5	Mr. Chairman. During the general consultations we also discussed local authority, its possible undermining and the importance of strengthening local authority. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that due to all the problems, the police are unable to respond properly to local security problems, as there is not enough room for local tailor-made work;]] [[Whereas greater involvement of the mayor is a good way to make police efforts more consistent with local needs;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with concrete proposals to strengthen local authority in security policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Berndsen-Jansen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29911-113]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-19.u6	Mr. Chairman. I did report at the last minute. I did so on the basis of the first motion tabled. My group is sympathetic to this. I will leave the final judgment in the middle, because I still have to discuss it. I believe, however, that the Elissen/Van Toorenburg motion has already given rise to this at the outset. In this sense, a start has been made that if cameras are made, they can hand them over to the police. There's a chance to file a report. That led me to ask questions about that. I would like the Minister to go into this in greater detail on the occasion of the motion. I have also said in the past that any camera footage used should not lead to a reduction in the penalty in the context of the violation of the perpetrator's privacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-19.u7	Thank you, Mrs Helder. This brings to an end the term of office. The Minister does not yet have all the motions. We are just waiting for this to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-19.u8	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for the opportunity to see my last VAO here on the last day before the recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-19.u9	You were also invited to attend the votes this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-19.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If my VAO gives rise to this, I will certainly consider it, because I think it is very important for a representative of the government to be present at the votes. By the way, I understand that it is an old tradition for the Secretary of State for Security and Justice to be present on the last day before the recess. I will also give an instruction accordingly. As a result of the general consultation, Mr Oskam asked whether the government is aware of the phenomenon of Irish travellers and what is being done about it. Of course, these Irish travelers or handymen are also known to the government and especially to the Public Prosecutor and the police. They mainly occur in the United Kingdom, but some families and groups also end up in the Netherlands and other countries of Europe. It's a special form of mobile banditism, but this one's not new. This phenomenon was already known in 2009. My predecessor answered parliamentary questions in 2011 from the Party of Labour. We must beware of generalisations; not all Irish travelers are immediately mobile bandits. The number of incidents reported to the police varies considerably and varies from season to season and region to region. It is very unfortunate that the victims of criminal Irish travellers are mostly wanted among the elderly. Sometimes there is also a nuisance. It is therefore almost certain that there is exploitation and tax evasion. So this is an important phenomenon, which we must take strong action against. One problem with this is that the willingness to report is rather low. The phenomenon is known, it is being investigated. There is close contact between the Dutch and the British police, among other things to learn from the experiences of British colleagues and to exchange information. In the United Kingdom, this phenomenon is covered by organised crime. We can do that here, too. Moreover, I am not aware of any British legislation against this phenomenon. With us, we have known this phenomenon for years. We're working on it. We make sure that we do what we can to combat this form of mobile banditism effectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-19.u11	I would like to ask the Minister to respond to all the motions and then questions can be asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-19.u12	Mr Oskam asked about the RFID chip test. I think there's some confusion at the Chamber about this. I have answered a lot of Parliamentary questions about it, all of which are based on the idea that people are driving around the Netherlands on the public road with a certain number of plates, behind which is a chip that can be read. As in the written reply, I can reassure the Chamber here too. There's a trial going on in an enclosed area of Defense. The license plates are mounted on cars owned by the Defense Department, so there is a fully sealed trial setting experience with those chips. It will determine whether it makes sense to continue with this. Only then should the College's protection of personal data be involved, as Mr Oskam rightly points out, in order to see whether such a proposal can also be rolled out nationally. The National Police aren't ready yet. This one hasn't been able to discuss that with me either. I haven't gotten that far, either. I have taken good note of the fact that almost all the groups have asked questions about this. We will look at the privacy aspects with great care and weigh, as the government always does, along the line known to the Chamber. Mr Oskam also asked a question about the outlaw motorcycle gangs and the confusion and intertwining with football supporters. Police analyses show that there is generally no strong interlinkage between the two groups. A high degree of involvement is seen only in incidental cases. Apart from a single violent crime and a suspicion of drug trafficking, there is no significant criminal involvement between the criminal motorcycle gangs and supporters of paid football clubs. Of course, police capacity is used wherever it's needed. At that point, criminal motorcycle gangs have a high priority. Mr Oskam has asked if I would like to reveal what investigative acts are subsequently being carried out. I will give you the answer I will always give, namely that I do not make any announcements about specific investigative measures. Mr Oskam, also with the motion on item No. 110, called for attention to mobile banditism and the problems for the retail trade. The motion calls for an attempt, in consultation with Retailers Netherlands and the police, to resolve the obstacles in laws and regulations that make the exchange of camera images difficult and to inform the Chamber for the next budget handling of Security and Justice. I cannot serve Mr Oskam and Mrs Tellegen more quickly than with the announcement that I had the conversation requested this morning with Retailers in the context of the Platform Combating Crime. That is exactly where this issue has been raised. The purpose of the government is to enable that exchange of images. If Mr Oskam appreciates it, I can report on this morning's discussion before the budget debate. The next call is scheduled in December. I cannot report on this, but I can report on this morning's discussion. I will therefore draw your attention to the legislative proposals that we are preparing to exchange these images more effectively. If Mr Oskam appreciates that, I can see this motion as supporting policy as I did this morning. If Mr Oskam wishes to put the motion to the vote, I shall leave it entirely to the Chamber, because I find that support pleasurable as support in the back. Mrs Kooiman has the motion in part No. 111, which calls on the government to make it clear how much work stock there is at present and to specify what matters it is. I cannot follow up on this motion because in a number of cases the data are certainly not broken down into organised crime. The question is also what exactly is covered by this. That's why I have to discourage the motion. Moreover, the Chamber is regularly informed of the progress of the investigation. In a number of cases, e.g. concerning the bottlenecks surrounding child pornography in the past, separate reports have been made on the work stock. However, I note that there is only a working stock there and certainly not a shelf stock. I therefore advise against the motion. I admit immediately to Mrs Kooiman that her anger has worked, even without me noticing. I'm very glad this is true. This means, however, that in general terms the LFO is the one responsible for dismantling and entering drug laboratories. I'm glad the Tilburg agents are doing this. I think I know who it's about, too. I trust them to take this in their right mind. In the motion in part No. 112 by Mrs Berndsen-Jansen and Mrs Kooiman, the government is invited to take action in the short term to increase the quantity and quality of investigations. This motion precedes the re-examination of the National Police which I have promised to the Chamber and which will deal extensively with this subject, partly because the Public Prosecutor's Office has explicitly requested it to do so. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. I will meet the demand by means of the recalibrate. I come to the last motion, the motion in part No. 113 by Mr Segers. It calls on the government to come forward with concrete proposals to strengthen local authority. This morning, it was in a newspaper somewhere. I don't remember where it was, and last night it was in Nieuwsuur. If Mr Segers has read the newspaper, he will know that the re-evaluation of the National Police is in line with his request. That is why this motion comes too soon, as well as Mrs Berndsen-Jansen's motion. I must therefore discourage them, because I have already made commitments on this. Following Mr Oskam's and Mrs Tellegen's motion, Mrs Helder pointed out that amendments had already been tabled on this subject. It is clear, I repeat, that this government also considers it important that camera images can be exchanged between private security agencies, entrepreneurs and the police. We also want to make it possible, as Mrs Helder knows, that citizens are also able to make unidentified suspects public in a number of specific cases in order to ensure that unknown suspects become known suspects, obviously in close consultation and consultation with the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-19.u13	Mr President, I shall hold my motion until we have dealt with the re-examination proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-19.u14	At the request of Mrs Berndsen-Jansen, I propose her motion (29911, No. 112). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-19.u15	I thank Mrs Berndsen for that. I would like to take this opportunity immediately to suggest the same to Mr Segers. In this way he can see whether the re-evaluation of the National Police, which was promised to the Chamber by my predecessor in November last year, will meet the required requirements. According to the newspaper I read this morning, that is the case, so Mr Segers will be served at his beck and call.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-19.u16	The Minister is asking this very kindly. And I'm a cooperative MP, so I'm gonna have my motion held and wait until I can see the plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-19.u17	At the request of Mr Segers, I propose his motion (29911, No. 113). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-19.u18	Mr President, may I also take this opportunity to wish all Members of your Chamber and you in particular a pleasant last afternoon and evening? Maybe we'll meet again at the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-19.u19	Thank you. If that is not the case, I wish you a quiet summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-19.u20	We are voting this evening on the motions that have not been held.
