ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber, in particular the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. There are ten speakers today. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Koolmees of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. This afternoon we were surprised again. The European Commission gives France an additional two years until 2017. That's on top of the nine years they've had. Eleven years of delay, the crazy number. It is indeed crazy if we allow this to happen unpunished. It is bad for the French economy, but it is also bad for the European economy. The picture is again that Europe measures with double standards. In the Chamber, the Prime Minister promised over and over again that France must keep its commitments. Yes, France announced structural reforms last week, which is positive news, but it is too late and too little. What will the Netherlands do to get Hollande in line? What will be our position in Ecofin? Recently, the Prime Minister was crystal clear. Is that still the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u3	It's important to mark this. D66 demands that the Dutch Government do not allow this to go unpunished. Those are firm words. Can Mr Koolmees explain what punishment he has in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u4	We have a Stability and Growth Pact and we have agreed on the maximum budget deficit and on what to do to comply with those agreements. Again and again we have said here: a deal is a deal. This applies to countries such as Greece, the Netherlands, but also to the large countries. France now has eleven years of its GDP at least if this becomes the truth and there will be a deficit of more than 3% until 2017. I can't explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u5	So far nothing new, because the rules of the game are known here. The question is what punishment D66 proposes when this is agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u6	We have made agreements in the Stability and Growth Pact. It contains all kinds of clauses on possible fines to countries that do not comply with the agreements. Those are existing agreements. The only question is whether they will be maintained. That is my question to the cabinet. What is the Dutch government going to do, in consultation with the other countries in Brussels, to get France on the right path?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u7	I fully agree with Mr Koolmees on the substance. I'll report that later. It is indeed the question of what should happen. Does D66 now plead for fines? That seems odd to me. The Commission will decide on this and, in my view, should decide on the fines. Then the Commission would decide on the one hand something for which it will fine on the other hand. If I understand correctly, at least D66 doesn't plead for a two-year delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u8	That's right. That's the short answer. The Commission has today put forward a proposal on the progress of the whole programme. This will soon be discussed in Ecofin, I think next week. The question is what commitment the Dutch cabinet has in Ecofin to get France on the right track.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u9	Mr Koolmees now looks a bit like a VVD, who speaks tough language that he can't explain it and that it won't happen to him, but eventually he signs with every cross. France gets two years' delay, but Italy, Greece and Belgium get it too. All countries under the Netherlands are about to be delayed. He can't explain it. He's been explaining it to the citizens for 11 years, and now he can't explain it anymore. Just admit honestly that you will sign with every cross!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u10	We in Europe have made budgetary agreements and agreements on the budget, on economic reforms. Many countries, including the Netherlands, have taken measures in recent years to put their economies in order, to reform, to reduce the budget deficit. Now there is always one big country, France, that shifts the hot potato for itself every time. All the countries mentioned by Mr Van Dijck, such as Greece, have taken a great deal of action in recent years. You can't compare that to the situation in France.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u11	It is well known that the Netherlands is the crazy henkie of Europe, because that indeed keeps to the agreements. But all those other countries south of the Netherlands do not comply with the agreements. Greece would send 150,000 civil servants home, but it has accepted more than sent them home. In other words, what are these appointments worth? As long as you're in a union with all the different countries, including countries that don't take the agreements so closely and do their best, you get this, and isn't the Netherlands the crazy stallion who can pay and who keeps to the agreements? Mr Koolmees knows that, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u12	That's bullshit. In recent years, we have worked very hard to strengthen the Stability and Growth Pact, for automatic sanctions, for tougher agreements, for economic reforms. In many countries this has indeed happened and you can see that things are getting better. Now one country always pushes out the hot potato. The cabinet has often said: a deal is a deal, we are going to keep France to that. Today it is announced that France will still be granted two years' delay. I wonder what the cabinet is going to do to make that old saying "a deal is a deal" come true. Greece can take a breath now. After a few weeks of sharp negotiation and a few rounds of bluff poker from both sides, there is now an agreement with the eurogroup, the ECB and the IMF, no longer called the troika but from now on "the institutions." I would like to congratulate the President of the Eurogroup for his role in this agreement. What does this agreement say? Cuts don't move. Nothing will be reversed without consulting the institutions. Debts are paid off and individual measures can be replaced by new, better measures. So we are sticking to the line: flexibility within the frameworks. That was also the agreement made with this Chamber. I have a few more questions for the Minister of Finance, first of all in the next four months. The Greeks have sent a list of new reforms. I see VAT reforms, tackling tax fraud, more efficient ministries, labour market reforms, pensions and care, and less administrative burdens. These are all hopeful signals from the new Greek government. The Eurogroup agrees with this list, but the ECB and the IMF are critical. There is a clear statement, including by the Eurogroup, of a starting point for further discussions. The concrete implementation, including the figures, is yet to come. The Greeks have been given the time to do so until the end of April. For the time being, payments to Greece are suspended. What does this mean for the financial situation in Greece in the meantime? We know that major repayments to the IMF will have to be made in March. Does the Greek Government have the means to do this? The question is also whether the Greeks themselves are going to implement this agreement. The Greek Minister for Energy said today that privatisations are being reversed in the electricity networks, whereas on Friday it was agreed that they would continue. What's the deal now? It can't be that on day one we are already negotiating back on made agreements. I'd like to get a reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u13	That is not just a question for the Minister of Finance. It is also a question of what D66 thinks of this. In fact, how does D66 intend to force the Greeks to do what they are going to do on a list in Brussels one day and disprove the next day in Greece?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u14	Over the last few weeks, the Eurogroup and the Greeks have been hard to negotiate this kind of agreement. Now it has been very consciously chosen to take four months to work it out, but then it has to be done. That is why it is wise that payments have been suspended and that we are not already transferring money. So it has to be done. It is the role of the President of the Eurogroup to ensure this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u15	I think that the Greeks are very impressed when Mr Koolmees says here: it must be done. In recent years, the point has always been that it doesn't happen. What is D66's answer if it is repeatedly found that agreements made are not being complied with? Then what is the solution of D66 for the Greeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u16	I think that's a weird question. Two weeks ago, we had a debate here. In it, not only by D66 but Chamberwide, it has been said: agreement is an agreement, the package can be negotiated, but the existing agreements are the starting point. Those existing agreements are very tough. In recent years, a great deal has changed in Greece. The retirement age has been increased, pensions have been cut and wages have been severely affected. That's hard on you. That's what you see in Greek society now, but they're not there yet. We have also always said: it is good that we have made these agreements, it is good that Greece is really working to strengthen the economy and put public finances in order, but you cannot stop halfway. The negotiations over the last two weeks have certainly been proof that we are far from there, that further measures will have to be taken in the coming years. D66 also called on the cabinet to do so. To be honest, I do not understand Mrs Schouten's question either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u17	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u18	I was with Ukraine. We had an international agreement, but the fights continue. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats finds it all very worrying. The cabinet calls the Minsk agreement a step towards de-escalation that can create room for a political momentum. How is my group supposed to see that two weeks later, so I ask the Prime Minister. Should we conclude another third Minsk agreement next month? My group chairman asked for Lampedusa's attention two weeks ago. On the day of the debate before the European summit, 300 people drowned. It was underlined again that the EU operation is not working. My group considers it undesirable. We need to take over the Italian operation. The Prime Minister promised that the Netherlands would address this in the JHA Council. That is good, but it should also be discussed once in the Council. I'm rounding up. My group is happy to receive a clear statement from the cabinet on the French. We would also like to hear what awaits us in the coming months with regard to the Greeks and Ukraine. My group also asks the cabinet to take the lead in helping drowning refugees in our waters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u19	Mr. Chairman. The SP is pleased that a provisional solution has been found for Greece. This is, first and foremost, good news for the Greek people, who suffer from forced austerity, economic contraction, corruption and tax evasion. Agreed reforms should change that. Time has been saved so that reforms can be initiated. That's good news. Last Friday Greece was slashed along the edge of the abyss. A bank run was lurking, even starting. In one day, no less than EUR 1 billion was taken from the bank. Without agreement, this development would undoubtedly have continued. Does the Minister of Finance share that assessment? And what is the status of the current agreements? The report of the conference by telephone states that the Court can give a ruling before the Netherlands finally agrees. If that is the case, then our opinion is positive and the Netherlands can agree. That does not mean that there are no questions, to begin with, about Greece's own debt. Is it true that the lion's share of the loan package has been devoted to saving the banks and to repayments and interest payments, and that only 11% of these loans have benefited the Greek government itself? Is it also true that, at this stage too, some of the debt, some 15%, is still in the hands of private investors? Of the private sector that deliberately took an entrepreneurial risk with those loans? Can the government confirm these figures? Different amounts of money circulate about the Dutch share of Greek debt. Previously, a debt of 18 billion was discussed and the CBS now comes with a lower amount, namely 12 billion. What exactly is it? In the coming months it will be necessary to see whether the lenders agree with the detailed Greek reform plans. The four-month extension of the agreement is not final. Only when the Greeks show that they have made sufficient efforts to implement and implement the reforms will they be given the green light of the institutions. Will the loan be paid at the end of April or later?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u20	Mr Klaver has a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u21	I welcome Mr Van Bommel's attitude, because he supports a package that was previously not supported. I remember a while ago, when Mr Irrgang was still in the Chamber, that Mr Van Bommel and Mr Irrgang wrote an article to the effect that Greece would be better off from the euro. What exactly does the SP want?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u22	Mr Klaver is mistaken. We have also said in the past that this support should be provided. However, we have always made that support conditional. As we know, the debt was mainly in the hands of private investors at the time. We said, "Write it down first and come to the aid." Moreover, we have never argued that Greece should leave the euro. We have said that the Greek Government should be given the opportunity to do so, if it considers it wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u23	There is no debt relief in the package that has been agreed. However, the SP can now agree. I therefore wonder where the SP is in this discussion. Should there perhaps suddenly be support for the Greeks because Syriza has won the elections? Or is the SP running at this point? What does the SP want with Greece? Is there support now, but not next time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u24	There is now a temporary solution. Reforms have been announced which we say are much better than the package presented by the previous Greek Government. I would like to draw attention to the fight against corruption, tax reform, tackling high incomes and combating privatisation. All these electoral promises will probably not be met in one go, but we think it is a step in the right direction. We understand the support that has been expressed in large numbers to the present government. This is without prejudice to the fact that this is a temporary solution. Greece will therefore have to continue to reform in order to obtain sound public finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u25	I am somewhat in agreement with Mr Klaver, because I too am now getting a little confused. We are talking about the possibility of granting a tranche of a loan programme of some 7 billion. The SP was always against that loan program. Why is the SP suddenly for cashing out that tranche?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u26	That question is justified. It's been "stand still" or "fall down" in the last few days. If last Friday's development had continued in one day, EUR 1 billion had been absorbed, Greece would have been bankrupt and we would have seen nothing in return. It's very simple. The importance of the ordinary Greek was not served by that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u27	I remember the debates here on loan programmes. In these debates, the government used the argument that the SP is now used. The cabinet also said at the time: this is the choice that lies ahead. At all these times, however, the SP voted against these loans. At all these times, that was not an argument for the SP to vote in favour of a loan package. Today, that is suddenly the case. I'm surprised at that. I agree with Mr Klaver that there is a twist of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u28	I can easily recall the motions tabled by my predecessor, Mr Irrgang, and his successor, Mr Merkies, on the support programmes. It was always conditional aid, because there should also be debt write-off. Those motions didn't make it. In some cases, these motions were supported by part of the Chamber, but they did not make it in the end. We have never spoken categorically against support programmes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u29	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u30	I can send the motions around one more time, if that's appreciated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u31	We will first listen to Mr Van Dijck's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u32	I would like to support my colleagues on the point of the 180 degree turn that makes the SP, of a Eurosceptic party that says that there should not be a penny to Greece, to a party that says: fine! It must have something to do with Syria. There's almost no other way. I think Mr. Van Bommel received a phone call saying: you will support us, brother, comrade?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u33	I can assure Mr Van Dijck that we have known since today that all telephone traffic is being monitored, so he knows which point of contact he has to report to if he wants to clarify that I have not been called by anyone and that we are taking our own position. I remember Mr Van Dijck's own motions. If he reads the relevant passages in the Acts again, he will see that very often we have not supported these motions, because we thought they were far too rabid. We wanted to give our support, under conditions which we ourselves have laid down and which are also contained in motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u34	Indeed, under conditions of debt cancellation. That's it, isn't it? Now we're making $7 billion. There's no debt discharge. It's 7 billion. You are very concerned about the Greek people. You used to care about the Dutch people. The poverty and the food banks, that was also something of the SP. The SP now transfers 300 million in Dutch taxpayers' money to the Greek population. The question is whether it will end up there, because so far it has not reached the Greek population. I wonder why that 7 billion would end up there now. Anyway, that must have something to do with Syria. The question is, of course, why the SP is now in agreement with 7 billion, without debt cancellation, of which 300 million comes from the Dutch taxpayer. You could have donated this amount to all those food banks of yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u35	Mr Van Dijck is right in saying that the money from those earlier programmes has, to a large extent, been misplaced, as in the case of banks. That's what I told you in my story. That's a big problem. That is why we have attached to our own support proposals that condition of debt cancellation, precisely because it concerned private investors. So that was a whole different story. Now, in the short term and with a bank run in front of the door, it's whether you let the Greeks fall all over and let them all choke, collectively, and lose all the money you put in it, or you don't. Then we choose the latter. It's a temporary solution. It remains to be seen whether this temporary solution offers the space that the Greeks think they need in order to achieve sound public finances. It's a pretty short period of time. In the coming months, therefore, it will be necessary to establish whether the reform plans are sufficient. Only when the Greeks show that they have made sufficient efforts to implement and implement the reforms will they be given the green light of the institutions. The IMF is critical of the reform proposals submitted by the Greek Finance Minister. They'd be too vague. When, according to the Dutch Government, did Greece meet the requirements? What is the flexibility with regard to the primary budget deficit, according to our government? What is the government's assessment of the tax amnesty scheme whereby Greek citizens and companies with tax debts receive a 50% discount? It is still unclear what will happen to the Greek banks. The parties may have come out, but in the period preceding the agreement there has been so much uncertainty that many people have taken their money away from the bank. At least 20 billion would have been taken from the banks, and possibly more. The bank run has thus already occurred in part. How viable are these banks anyway? What will the ECB do? What alignment has there been with the ECB? In the coming weeks and months it will be necessary to show what the precise implementation of the agreements will mean for the Greek people, who have expressed their support for the government of Prime Minister Tsipras. That government will not be able to deliver on all the promises made and is now facing a huge challenge. Finally, I have one sentence on Ukraine. The commitment was, and must remain, with regard to the SP, that a political solution to the conflict is reached. This means that we must do justice to the wishes of the people to achieve some degree of self-government, even in regions where there is no agreement with Kiev. A solution cannot be found in sending weapons and military. I ask the government to reaffirm that position today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u36	Mr. Chairman. In the last few weeks, I've often thought of a homeless man I've encountered. He was begging and was addressed by a police officer, who said: you can't beg, that's criminal. Then he asked, to a homeless person, what is your home address? Then a ticket was issued to that homeless person, someone who had no money and was begging, with the request to comply. I have often had to think of this image of this homeless man and that policeman when negotiations were being held with Greece: asking a country that is virtually bankrupt, asking for all the agreements that have been made and that are putting the country incredibly tight. You can't pick feathers from a bald chicken. That seems pretty simple to me. We need to understand that quickly. I am glad that an agreement has been reached with Greece, that a temporary solution has now been found and that some peace has been bought. In any case, we can now work on a structural solution. 'Cause we're a long way from getting here. I find the coverage of Greece a little bizarre sometimes. One day it's one big mess and the other day it looks like we've already found the solution. But we're still in the same boat. There is a temporary solution, at least until April. We'll have to move on in June. We're in a cramp of "a deal's a deal." We have lost sight of reality. In the previous debate, I have already referred to the situation in Greece, which I will continue to mention in the forthcoming debates. Youth unemployment is 52%. The WW is €360 and there is no assistance. Almost 3 million people in Greece do not have access to health care. One in four Greeks lives below the poverty line. The result of all the cuts and the support programme so far is that the debt has only increased from 127% of GDP to 175%. I told you, a temporary solution has been found. I'm happy about that. I am glad that a collision with Greece has been averted. That scenario would not have been positive for anyone, not primarily for the Greeks, but also for Europe. We seem to forget the latter sometimes. In the event of Greece's bankruptcy, we wouldn't see our money back at all. The Netherlands has a trade surplus with Greece and, in the event of bankruptcy, simply loses an important trading partner and income. A grexit will cause a great deal of turmoil in the financial markets, and the whole of Europe will suffer from this economic burden. I am not even talking about the geopolitical consequences of a grexit. These are more than enough important reasons to make every effort to keep Greece with the European Union and in the euro. GroenLinks is therefore pleased that it has succeeded in the short term at least. Although the agreement on the Green Left could have shown greater compassion with the Greeks, my group can support it. After all, the alternative would have been worse. Although the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have not yet drawn much attention to this, the agreement does provide some light for the Greek people. For the first time, there is room for some humanitarian policy: a minimum income, the no longer weakening of collective agreements and a priority for tackling tax evasion. The fact that the Eurogroup approved this as a starting point for a new agreement between the two parties is hopeful. Last week's final statement by the euro group states that the requirements for the primary surplus are made dependent on economic growth. That seems to me to be an excellent thing. Last week I indicated that an excessive primary surplus unnecessarily cuts off the Greek economy. I'm curious what this passage means. Can I get a little more clarity on this? Does this mean that a surplus of 3% is no longer a tough requirement for 2015, and that the deficit should not necessarily reach 4.5% in 2016? In other words, does this mean a change in the arrangements? I hope that this will be answered in the affirmative, because I would be pleased. Because if we really want to find a structural solution with Greece, we cannot ignore the fact that we have to forgive debts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u37	Mr. Chairman. What is an agreement worth in Europe? That question is pressing after what has happened in recent days; of course around Greece, but let me start with the announcement this afternoon that France is being postponed again to comply with the budgetary commitments. For years, France has been facing a maximum budget deficit of 3%. What about the European Commission? It's there and it's okay. This is a knife in the back for all those countries in Europe that have kept to the agreements. How does the Minister appreciate the support shown by the European Commission? Does he recognise that the Stability and Growth Pact is gradually becoming a dead letter? Is he prepared to firmly distance himself from the European Commission's decision? And will the Netherlands oppose this course of action? Then Greece. On Monday evening, at the end of the day, the list of proposals from the Greeks was drawn up on the basis of which the objectives of the loan programme were thought to be met. Yesterday, the Eurogroup and the institutions, formerly known as the Troika, agreed to the list as the starting point for the negotiations. The big question now is: what has this spectacle achieved in several parts? The problem has been averted in the short term. The President of the Eurogroup, this Minister for Finance, has done well, I must admit. But have the Greeks gained more perspective with this package? Is the euro area now assured that Greece will comply with its commitments? Is this a return to confidence, both among the Greeks and among the Europeans? It's almost a rhetorical question. The Greek people slept a democratic cry for help in the elections in January. The euro has become a flogging for the Greeks. In some places unemployment is 60%. Wages and incomes have fallen dramatically. That is the reality behind the internal devaluation in the absence of the possibility of an external devaluation of a currency. This has led to great poverty. The Greek economy must be able to participate in the European movement of peoples, but it has proved impossible to do so. The most basic cases for the functioning of a state, such as a working tax administration, are not there or hardly there. The land register would have been set up four or five years ago, but that still hasn't been completed. I note that these basic issues are still being addressed. Many laws have been passed in recent years in the Greek Parliament, but how many have actually been fully implemented? In this context, is the Eurogroup confident that the agreements with the Greeks will come to a successful conclusion? And why? What is this trust based on? The IMF has raised its finger and is questioning the reality of a number of measures on the list, especially if they are to be implemented within four months. You don't change tax morals in four months. In fact, the efforts made over the last five years have not been sufficient. How did the cabinet weigh this IMF signal? My impression is that, in the end, it has been a political choice to re-agree with the Greek reform ambitions. That impression was reinforced yesterday by statements by the Minister of Finance. Yesterday, the Minister said that it is not useful to always discuss an exit from any euro country; too much political capital has been invested for that. What does such a statement mean for the negotiations with the Greeks on the completion of the reform list, which should now begin and be completed in April? Isn't this what the minister gave carte blanche to the Greeks? Does the Minister still consider it possible, on the basis of yesterday's agreements, that the entire last instalment should not be paid out, for example if the Greeks completely fail to implement and implement the reform package? I'm rounding up. We must look for a structural solution for the Greeks and for Europe. That's out of the question right now. What's happening now is buying time and hoping. It's muddling back to the next decision. That does not make the Greeks any better and neither does Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u38	Mr. Chairman. The euro has sailed past the abyss again over the last few weeks. The ruthless action of the new Greek government required weeks of crisis consultation. There were great words on the part of the new cabinet in Greece, and sometimes even personal insults. In the end, an agreement was reached very difficultly. The blame for the fact that it was so difficult applies to the Greek Government, but the appreciation of the success of the euro group, and certainly its President, is true. The Eurogroup mentions the agreements with Greece as a starting point for a process leading to the gradual and successful completion of the programme with Greece. That is an economical comment, but it is an agreement with a party that would like to get away from the agreements again tomorrow. That must not happen, and that is why I have the following questions to the cabinet. Had the IMF not noticed correctly that the agreements are very vague and leave a great deal of room for interpretation? After all, tax reforms have been promised so many times by the Greeks. I see a little water at the chairman's office. Unfortunately no latte macchiato this time! Why does the Eurogroup believe the promises now? Have any agreements been made on the budgetary surplus to be achieved for the Greeks in 2015? How is it also determined whether and when the remaining 7 billion will be transferred? Who makes that decision? My final question on this part is when the promised tax reforms and anti-corruption measures should show their results. What should the result be measured in financial returns? I would like to say that it is absolutely not natural for the CDA to agree to another programme in four months' time. The Greek Government has put too much faith to the test. I therefore call for the following principles to be taken into account at the start of the forthcoming negotiations. Firstly, it must be absolutely clear from day one that the troika, i.e. the ECB and, above all, the IMF, must be involved again. The Greeks may now call this 'Tifkat', 'the institutions formerly know as troika', but support without involvement of the IMF and the ECB is unthinkable. I hear here that the Greeks do not say that; they cannot even say that word. Secondly, a deal is a deal. This means that every euro has to come back within the agreed period. This is an agreement made by the previous government of Greece, but which also binds the current government. The third point is that the Dutch taxpayer should not be responsible for reckless decisions by the Greek Government. If measures are taken there which undermine confidence, if interest rates rise again or the banks are emptied and entry into the markets becomes even more difficult for the Greeks, then that should not be a reason for other countries to come back. The Greeks must do whatever it takes to reform and get things back on track. I would like to get a response to these points. I will now briefly go into the European summit, because this was about the euro group. We have all been able to look at the negotiations in Minsk from a distance. This may have been the most feasible. However, I call on the Cabinet to remain vigilant and, whenever necessary, to continue to use the economic weapon against Russia and to continue to do the defensive work through NATO.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u39	I'll come back to Greece. I do not know where Mr Buma has been for the last five years, but we made agreements with Greece. Greece has a very large civil service, relatively the largest in the world. Greece would fire 150,000 officials and privatise business. The Greeks would do all kinds of things, but none of that has happened. Does Mr Buma still give the Greeks the benefit of the doubt and agree to this four-month extension? Because that's what we're here for tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u40	This is the best result for the Netherlands. We already saw a taste of the way things were about to go wrong. If we had not achieved a result in recent weeks, we would have had a completely different debate here. Then even Mr Van Dijck would have asked: how could the cabinet have allowed it to come to this? These agreements were necessary, because otherwise the euro would have gone over the edge and thus also the Dutch economy. Moreover, the taxpayer in the Netherlands had lost all his money. So it is necessary, but I keep saying, also to Greece: agreement is an agreement. You can yell that you don't want to meet, but you're gonna have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u41	With this institution you can call "a deal is a deal," but then the Greeks also know that you never drop them anyway. The next, third, support package was announced by the Minister of Finance at the beginning of last year. In July Greece will receive a credit line of 10 to 20 billion, because that money is needed by the Greeks. Then Mr Buma stands here again and says: a deal is a deal. But then again he agrees with 10 to 20 billion for Greece, while the Greeks have not complied with all the commitments made over the past five years. What does it take for the CDA to realize that the Greeks aren't so close to agreements? Promises are empty promises in Greece, as long as the billions continue to flow. What's it gonna take for the CDA to get that insight?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u42	Remember, there's a big difference between the elections and the newly elected government. The new government has an economic policy that is moving towards a policy that the PVV is also pursuing. That is a policy that does not directly lead to economic prosperity. In particular, in addition to the blunt manner in which Greece walked through the European porcelain cabinet, it threatened to go completely wrong and the euro went down the cliff again. If the Greeks had continued the programme of the previous cabinet, there would not have been such a problem. They'd have gotten out of trouble sooner and we could've moved on. Just Greece, much more than France, which I'm going to talk about, did its job.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u43	You've got 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u44	One sentence on the deepening of EMU, which was discussed at the Euro Summit. The President of the Commission spoke of a capital market union. I ask the Prime Minister, who was there, exactly what was agreed. Let us not all start using big words again to get huge discussions about something that we do not know what it is. We must only take steps if we know what is happening and why it is happening. Finally, France.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u45	But really in two sentences, because you're way past your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u46	Seven seconds. France will be delayed for two years. That's absurd. The cabinet shouldn't agree to that. We have tabled motions on several occasions. They have been adopted and the cabinet has promised to implement them: no further delay for France. I'll hold the cabinet to that. This means that sanctions cannot be excluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u48	You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u49	Mr. Chairman. Where Ireland and Portugal successfully ended their programme last year, Greece can never be normal. The new government thought it was possible to make a lot of empty and expensive promises to the people and pretended that agreements with Europe could easily be pushed aside, but that kite is not going to fly. Before the recess, we have already indicated that Greece has two choices: either comply with all the agreements or fail to deliver, and in that case the consequences are for the Greeks. The only option available is to replace one measure with another, provided that the troika believes that it produces the same amount and has the same positive effect on the economy. Greece only has that space and nothing else. It'll already be in the program. In the Chamber and in the other 17 euro countries, we have rightly maintained this strict requirement. After all the kettle music and tough language, I honestly did not expect the Greeks to make the turn, but after last Friday we can see that Greece has made a full turn. There is nothing left of the blunt kettle music: no debt write-off, no lower interest rates, no extra money. The Greek Minister for Finance may be slightly different, but our agreements with Greece have not changed. But I'm skeptical about the odds of success. The ideas about measures which the Greek Government would otherwise like to take are vague. The extension is about the money that the Greeks would actually receive in 2014, but they will not get that money after next weekend, because they have not met the conditions since autumn. Three points are important for the VVD. First of all, I would like confirmation that Greece will not receive payment of this tranche until the March rules which are or will not be amended in April have been reviewed by the Troika parties as they have always been. I would like the explicit commitment that this will be done and that no benefit will be paid to Greece until then. Secondly, the adaptation of the MoU, i.e. the replacement of one measure by another, can only be done after the troika has approved it and after we have been consulted on it as a parliament. I would also like to get a commitment on this. If the troika says that the measure will not fly on further development, it must not be introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u50	That is a legitimate demand from Mr Harbers, but we must look at it when it comes to approving it. It must be done well, but Greece assumes that it will receive the first money in about three days' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u51	I read it differently in the pieces. That is why I ask the Minister to confirm that this will not be the case. We are now dealing with the programme that would actually end at the end of 2014. We are talking about the money that would be paid out in the third and fourth quarters of 2014. That did not happen at the time, because the Greeks did not meet the conditions. It has been extended and it is now being renewed, but the conditions have to be met first. The measures must be introduced first. Then the troika comes along and only when the troika finds that it has all gone well will benefit take place, just like it has been for the past five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u52	Is that about the 7 billion or the sequel? Of course, the agreements on reforms and so on have not been implemented in the coming days. Those are just promises.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u53	No, that's my third point. Until the Troika approves any replacement measures, the programme will be implemented as it is. This will mean, above all, that nothing will be reversed. I want a commitment to that, but this is also my answer to Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u54	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u55	I would also like to respond to a few other questions. The first concerns the interpretation by the IMF, which doubts the hardness of alternative measures. On the other hand, the fact that the European Commission issued such a positive statement yesterday is all the more reason for me to insist that the ECB and the IMF continue to carry out their checks as usual. The three separate letters make it clear that the strict and gloomy mathematicians are with the ECB and the IMF. So I would also like to get confirmation that the troika institutions remain, whatever Tsipras thinks of it. The second question concerns privatisations. These can't just disappear. After all, they were already intended as a quick opportunity to reduce public debt. They were even set apart, in a separate, independent government-designed body. Today, however, there appeared to be several English and Greek texts. The Energy Minister said he wouldn't privatise the electricity companies anyway. So I would like to get a response from the Minister: what happens now? The fact that tax evasion might be dealt with now is perhaps the best thing in the plan. The assessment will also include: no double counting. There was, of course, already the necessary effort in the existing agreement, of which it is only fair that it be complied with. I also like to get a reaction to that. I would also like to hear from the Minister that Greece's budget balance and economic conditions will not be handled differently than other countries. The austerity call still stands; again: whatever Tsipras thinks of it. Only under these conditions, and therefore only after approval by the Troika and the Eurogroup, will the FVO be able to support the extension. Greece has lost a lot of confidence over the past few weeks. This is one last chance to regain that trust. I'm coming to Ukraine. The situation there is serious. In this debate, I can be brief about it. I would particularly like to hear from the Prime Minister what he can tell us about the current situation and what it means for the future of Minsk II. I see that I am out of my speaking time, but I am asking one more question about France. For the sake of clarity, I would like to repeat the question that has been raised here a number of times: what is going on and how does the government judge it? I hear different messages. One of them says there's gonna be extra cuts. The other says: that's very little.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u56	Mr Van Bommel has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u57	It is stated that only under certain conditions, which cannot be met in the coming days, can the VVD agree to renewal. However, the letter sent by the government to the Chamber, which is the report of the telephone meeting, refers to the date of 26 February for Dutch consent. Can the VVD give the Dutch government the power to agree to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u58	The terms I'm making can be met by the government tonight. They are also in the letter in so many words. However, I would also like to hear them in this Chamber debate. It is a condition that payments are not made until the troika has come back and checked that the measures have all been properly implemented in Greece. So, as is the case at present, it must not remain in the case of an announcement of a vague thing with no figures. In addition, there is a condition that the existing programme is maintained as long as no measures have been replaced. This also means that no measures will be reversed. I think that's part of the deal, but I like to hear it here. Then we can support the extension. This does not mean that, as Mr Bommel may suggest, money can be returned to Greece this weekend or next Monday. After all, we are still in the same situation as last year's summer and autumn, namely that Greece is still engaged in a perpetual progress mission, on the basis of which no money can be paid out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u59	That last point is, of course, clear. That's not the point. It's about the terms of the VVD. But I think that the answer is clear: Mr Harbers lays down conditions, does so in a firm tone, but immediately refers to the letter from the government, by which he says: the conditions are already met. So he's actually answering his own questions. He just agrees. I'm fine with that, but let him just say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u60	I am also asking the questions because there have been several noises from Athens over the last few days about how the agreement should be interpreted. That is why I would like to hear from our government how it assesses this and how it sees the rest of this process. In my view, exactly the same is happening as in December. At that time we also extended the programme until 28 February, and until today no euro has been paid, because Greece has not fulfilled the conditions since December and the months before and the months after.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u61	It is not for nothing that the troika has run away ten times. Troika's almost tired of these Greeks. Every time they promise everything, they come back a quarter later and none of it ends up. With a lot of promises they are kept in the air again, while the troika says "do it." It's been like this for five years. For five years the VVD has been calling for an appointment and for five years they have been empty promises from the Greeks. What about those 150,000 officials they were gonna send home? Does Mr. Harbers know that? How many were sent home? What about the privatisation that would yield 24 billion? How many companies have been privatised? How much has that gotten you so far? It's a deal, isn't it? Mr Harbers, like the cabinet, is once again sent out with fine words and fine promises and finally he agrees again and signs with the cross. Then let him be honest and not come before the recess with harsh words like "a deal is a deal"! He agrees to empty promises.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u62	I am glad that I have come up with some harsh words, because honestly, until last Thursday, I would not have thought that the Greeks, after all that empty language, would still make this kind of request to extend all the agreements. Mr Van Dijck explains why it has been so good that we have this troika, which is constantly on top of all these agreements. As long as the troika is busy, no money will be paid out and no money will be paid out as long as the troika is sent away in Athens. There is only one way to get the money paid out, and that is by allowing the troika to do its job and to make it clear on the basis of facts that the Greeks have actually delivered it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u63	The difference with the period before the recess is that the Greeks have now come up with more promises, but we don't buy anything for promises. Appointments are measures that have been implemented. That is firing officials and not taking them back, that is putting privatisations on the shelf and not turning back, and that is lowering the minimum wage and not wanting to raise it again. Those are the arrangements we made. Mr Harbers agrees with the fact that there will be promises again and that they will say that they will raise the minimum wage, but they will do so in steps. They will not reverse privatisations, but they will not initiate them. So those are empty promises. We'll be back here in three or four months, with or without troika. In the end, nothing will have come of it and we are 7 billion lighter again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u64	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The announcements made by Mr Van Dijck about re-appointing officials, etc., are also an abomination to me, especially if there is no money at all in Greece. That is precisely why I am pleased that Greece, where it seemed completely different two weeks ago, has once again committed itself fully to the programme and to all the conditions contained in it. Since yesterday, there has been a whole list of vague things that they may also be planning, but I note that they can only be achieved if measures are taken in April or whenever they actually prove to be the same as the measures they need to replace. I'd like to hear that from the Cabinet, too. That's the only way it can fly. Otherwise, it is not possible under this agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u65	I would like to ask Mr Harbers whether or not he would agree if France were to be postponed again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u66	I'm not answering that question right now because I want to know what it is first. We have four rules in writing on what the Commission has decided on France. They can work in all kinds of ways. That is why I asked the cabinet the same questions as Mr Buma and, by the way, Mr Koolmees. I just want to know what's going on here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u67	But one thing's for sure. The Commission grants postponement in exchange for a number of reforms, cuts and so on. You can find all kinds of things, but the fact is that they will be delayed. The question is whether Mr Harbers is right in saying that France should be granted a further postponement under any condition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u68	I'm as horrible about that as I've done in the last nine years. At the same time, I want to know what it is. One of the things that it can be is that France will have to undertake all kinds of new reforms or adjust the current budget before May. At least we'll have achieved something. I would like to take a look at all the reforms that have to be implemented in France and how hard the Commission is in enforcing them. What possibilities does she have here? In that respect, the message that came from Brussels today is very vague. I often hear vague messages from Brussels, but more vague than this, I have rarely seen it. It is a bit like yesterday's Greek list, because I really have no idea what is being asked of France now or not. That's what I like to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u69	That is what I like to hear, and I am very curious to know exactly what has been agreed. However, the picture that does emerge is that the French have been delayed for another two years, i.e. until 2017. That is what the Commission's press releases say. The tone of Mr Harbers surprised me a little. After all, in October last year Mr Van Haersma Buma and Mr Pechtold tabled a motion to the effect that France must adhere strictly to the commitments of the Stability and Growth Pact, a motion supported by the VVD at the time. Is it requested in this motion still the line of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u70	Yes. I don't know what happened to my tone. It may have been triggered by the red flashing light here. I share the questions about what is going on with France and why this is happening again, and above all the question that is going on up there: how is it possible that such a large country can get these things done over and over again, when none of the other 27 Member States would succeed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u71	Mr. Chairman. It is exactly a month ago today that the Greeks went to the ballot box and there were elections there. A lot happened that month. There are strong statements from different sides in Europe. Where are we now? For the PvdA, the main issue was that Greece would remain in the euro area. That is good for Greece; a grexit would be a disaster for the inhabitants of Greece, I also say to the Christian Union. The economy would then collapse completely, poverty would increase much more than it already is and unemployment would rise to an enormous extent. Also, a grexit would be very bad for the social situation in Greece. It would also be geopolitically bad, so on the edge of Europe, with Russia where the situation is fragile. A grexit would also be bad for the Netherlands. Mr Klaver has already interrupted this. What do you think you're gonna get back from a country that's gonna go down a lot further, if that's what you've been loaning out? It would be bad for all parties if that was the scenario. The theories were firm. The PvdA Group has seen that the President of the Eurogroup, Minister Dijsselbloem, has shown courage and leadership in this respect. I congratulate him on that. After all, the grexit did not become the scenario that came out. In the end, an agreement was reached. I agree with previous speakers who said it was an intermediate step and not the final one. However, the agreement provides a basis for Greece to grow again, to get it back on its feet, to come out of the crisis with a different interpretation of the measures agreed on. The PvdA has been strongly committed from the outset to a firmer approach to corruption and an approach to tax avoidance. The government has announced that it will work on this. This must, of course, be further developed in the coming months. The PvdA Group is asking the Minister to inform us about this. I agree with Mr Harbers' question about the European Commission and its assessment of France. We only got a few rules. A press conference has been held, as has happened several times before in European decision-making. That information doesn't exactly satisfy me. I wonder what exactly has been decided, what the arguments for that decision are and what the follow-up is. Finally, I come to Ukraine. The PvdA Group is very concerned. The fights continue and new ones stand up, despite the second Minsk agreement. It remains a matter of working towards a political solution. Unity within the European Union and unity between the European Union and the United States vis-à-vis Russia are crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u72	Madam President. The Council meeting on 12 February also discussed the fight against terrorism. Fortunately, because we have not only a financial crisis, but also a humanitarian crisis, even in several regions, but also in Syria. I would like to put my finger on the horrific abduction yesterday of dozens of Christians by ISIS. About their fate if ISIS is not thwarted, we have no illusions. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if this is given high priority by the EU. Can we find out where these victims are? What possibilities such as rescue are conceivable to save their lives if possible? Then there's the financial crisis. I must honestly say that I was satisfied with the arrangements made by the Minister as President of the Eurogroup and, of course, in his role as Minister of Finance. I always think you should leave the facts to the facts. I would like to congratulate the Minister on his role as President of the Eurogroup, because it is simply well done, as Mrs Schouten said. It was a complex situation that was resolved quickly and well. I am, however, pleased, as we believe that there should be another solution. Mrs Schouten has already mentioned them and others have already mentioned them. That should be a grexit now or in the long run. I hear Mr Nijboer say that this will be a complete failure: unemployment will rise and the Greek economy will collapse. That is indeed true, if you did it with a cold clean-up and left the Greeks to their fate. No one in this Chamber has argued for that, almost no one in any case, neither we nor the Christian Union. I also say 'almost no one' in response to Mr Nijboer's gestures towards the far right side of this Chamber, which will be speaking shortly. We would be in favour of a marshal's plan in which it is very guided and in which the debts are reduced. Then there would be a social start. As I said to Mr Klaver, you will give the Greeks a really good start. All of the social misery that is listed, comes forth from the fact that you have to devalue internally if you cannot do so externally. We are depriving the Greeks of that opportunity. That is possible, but we are not just having this debate now. Then we will have this debate in six months, in one year, in two years, in five years and in ten years, because their earning capacity will continue to fall short. I welcome all these debates, but I am not pleased that this is at the expense of our taxpayers, but is also about the back of the Greeks. As far as we are concerned, this is the ideal solution. There is no majority for that; that is also easy for the government to say. Motions have been tabled and have not been adopted. We have also asked, conditioned: if there is no majority in favour of the real solution, the government ensures 'a deal is a deal'. I was also satisfied with that, because the government did indeed take care of it. I can still hear the Prime Minister asking. When I interrupted him, he asked the question back: what are you worried about, because we're going to make sure there's no extra costs. That was indeed the case, at least if what is in those letters is actually happening, namely that these plans are being implemented. My key question about the package, which colleagues have already asked, is how the government is now ensuring that it is hard to implement this package within four months, all the more so because by saying to the Greeks that there is no exit option, we will no longer have any means of coercion. If they throw the ass against the crib and keep coming up with vague lists, what kind of coercive force does the government have to put them in the corner so they're actually gonna do what they have to do? As far as we are concerned, it is at least essential that these agreements are actually implemented. There are serious concerns at the IMF and other institutions. Madam President. I am very curious about the government's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u73	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Dijck of the PVV, who has already been announced.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u74	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Schouten has just said: what are agreements still worth in Europe? We see it now in France, but we also see it in Greece for five years. We are now 240 billion lighter and we are now talking as if we are not living in 2015, but as if we are living in May 2010 and are now going to make agreements with Greece. The Greeks have been promising everything for five years, but they are empty promises. The only goal is to keep the billions flowing to Athens. It is not for nothing, therefore, that the troika left with some anger and disappointment in every evaluation. Each time one falls into it with open eyes again, even now. They're jokers, those Greeks. Whoever doesn't realize that is either super naive or primal. This minister is now pleased with a dead sparrow. I'll present six dead sparrows. Greece now promised to tackle tax evasion. However, this was promised five years ago. That's dead sparrow one. What happened to the Lagarde list? Two thousand black pearls and two hundred billion euros are in Swiss bank accounts. That was a gift from Mrs Lagarde. However, the list was lost and the journalist who made this list public was arrested. Greece also promised five years ago that it would work on tax collection. There has been little of this in the last five years. That's dead sparrow two. What happened to the amount of 76 billion in taxes that is still open? The amount is only rising. In 2011 we talked about 20 billion, then it became 60 billion and now it is 76 billion. Instead of collecting this money quickly, the fanatical tax inspector was fired after one year. Now people want to start rewarding people when they pay something. In the Netherlands you get a fine, in Greece you get a discount. I'm gonna move on to dead sparrow number three. Greece promised five years ago to privatise public enterprises, a good plan. That would be 50 billion. Two years later, it was revised; it was going to yield 24 billion. Eventually, this minister will be happy if the privatisation of those four state lotteries is not reversed. How many companies have actually been privatised? If I look it up, I'll be worth 2.4 billion, not 24 billion. Sailing detail, it has already been said, is that the Greek Minister for Energy announced today that he does not intend to privatise. The Minister of Finance said that he does not intend to sell the Greek crown jewels at too low a price. In other words, the ink isn't dry yet or the appointment goes back in the trash. Now, dead sparrow number four. Greece promised to fire 150,000 civil servants. So far, more officials have been hired than fired. How many officials have actually been fired? I mean, really fired and not pre-retirement. This president of the eurogroup has long been pleased if the few dismissed officials, those 3,500 cleaners, are not re-assigned. The Greeks also promised to reduce pensions, lower wages and increase VAT, but they didn't do anything about it. In fact, in Greece, people can still work until the age of 60 on pre-retirement pensions in the Netherlands until the age of 67.The reduction in the minimum wage is reversed in steps and VAT has not been increased, but reduced from 23% to 13%. These were dead sparrow number five, six and seven. How many dead sparrows does this minister want left?! For five years, we've been kept on a leash. That's as ready as a whistle. Three quarters of the Dutch think so, as a poll showed today. But not this finance minister, because he continues to believe in it. Meanwhile, this cabinet has transferred 18 billion to these jokers, money that we desperately need in our own country. Instead of shutting down the money tap, it's opening up again. Since January last year, the Minister has even referred to a third aid package, 10 or 20 billion, which should be possible. There goes another billion of Dutch taxpayers' money. How many times does the Minister have to hit that Greek stone? When does he say, like the PVV, "enough is enough"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u75	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with Greece. The Greeks received almost EUR 200 billion of European emergency aid. The Netherlands wrote a check of 12 billion and also guarantees another 6 billion. That is more than €1,000 per Dutchman. We should have spent this money in our own country. Anything's better than artificially ventilating Greece. There is no guarantee that Athens will also implement the agreed reforms, except perhaps left-wing proposals that will cost a lot of money, such as raising the minimum wage. I predict that in four months' time we will be standing here again and the problems will only have gotten bigger. Let us no longer muddle, but finally tackle the problem in a structural way. The solution is simple: Greece needs to get out of the euro. Then I'll go to France. In addition to the misery in Greece, the fact that France is being postponed again is another striking example of the failed euro project. Why does the Netherlands, which is always obedient to all austerity agreements and pays the post-tax well every time, not dare to put its fist on the table now, so that France simply keeps to the agreements? I'm going to Ukraine. The Minsk agreement is also a failure. Merkel and Hollande are not taken seriously by Putin. Is the government prepared to join the talks between the United Kingdom and the United States on possible new sanctions against Russia? The perpetrators of the attack on the MH17 must never avoid their punishment. The Prime Minister says that Ukraine has promised that no amnesty will be granted. In the meantime, this commitment has also been made in writing by the Ukrainian Parliament. Does the Cabinet have that guarantee from Russia?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u76	This brings to an end the first term of office. The Prime Minister is already ready for his first-term response. I give him the floor to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u77	Mr. Chairman. The Minister for Finance will be addressing the questions about Greece and France and the question about the Capital Markets Union. I have the honour to answer the remaining questions. That's three. I shall begin with the situation with regard to Minsk II. I share the concerns that I share with many speakers, such as those of D66, the SP, the CDA, the VVD and the PvdA and Mr Bontes. I share the concern I hear in all these contributions about developments. Those voices are not hopeful. As we know, the separatists have conquered the important place of Debaltseve. We also see that incidents of violence continue along the contact lines. In this sense, I believe that the development in the coming days will be very important. What is needed now is a full ceasefire and withdrawal of heavy equipment. That must be carried out now. I would point out that the role of the OSCE is essential. It should be able to have full, free and safe access to all areas. We in the Netherlands are still convinced that a political solution is the only way to bring this conflict to a successful conclusion. That must therefore be done through negotiation. We are convinced that this conflict cannot be resolved militarily. Then I come to the situation in the Mediterranean. Mr Koolmees asked a question about this. The Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi drew attention to this during our consultations. I agree with him that such scenes are terrible. This requires an integrated approach to illegal immigration at EU level. One of its components is the approach of smugglers, who deliberately put vulnerable people at great risk with their ruthless and cynical actions. Of course, Frontex's action is important for the support of Member States in border control. The Chamber knows that the Netherlands makes both staff and equipment available to Triton and other Frontex operations. It is also important to note that large-scale migration will only stop permanently if the root causes are removed. In this sense, we believe that this problem can only be viewed in the context of the general political, economic and security context in Africa and the Middle East. It is true that this matter will also be raised in the JHA Council in March. Finally, I come to the question of the abduction of Christians. Those messages scared me. The numbers of the round range from approximately 90 to 150 abducted Assyrian Christians, including women, children and the elderly. There is still a great deal of uncertainty at the moment. The kidnapping has not yet been formally claimed by ISIS, but has all the characteristics of an ISIS operation. At the same time, there are reports from open sources that ISIS might want to exchange prisoners against ISIS fighters captured by Kurds. These reports confirm once again what a terrible situation there is and what an incredibly brutal and all-inspiring organization we are dealing with. There is intolerance and violence against all those who do not share the destructive ideology it adheres to. I agree with the SGP that minorities, including Christians, are in an even more vulnerable position. That is why the protection of minorities is a priority in our cabinet's foreign policy. We use all available channels to draw attention to and draw attention to violations of freedom of religion and of belief. In this sense, we are continuing with extra efforts to combat ISIS by all means available. We are also doing this in Iraq and in other ways, for example by supporting the moderate opposition in Syria and enabling it to counterweight. I can inform the SGP that the next week the Council of Foreign Ministers will meet informally and that this issue will be put on the agenda there. I agree with those who have congratulated the President of the Eurogroup, our Minister for Finance. I was proud to see him at work. He always does that with complete focus on the end result. In doing so, he keeps his rest. I do not want to mention anyone in particular, but we can all learn from that. Eventually, he gets results. He doesn't give a damn what he's said about him in the meantime, which makes him extremely effective. He will also say later that this is of course the beginning. Much needs to be done over the next four months, but we will follow this very carefully step by step.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u78	I had made that compliment in my contribution. I have a question about France. The Prime Minister says the Minister of Finance will come back to that later. Over the past year, the Prime Minister has issued a number of rulings on the enforcement of the Stability and Growth Pact. In May last year it was said that all countries must comply with the Stability and Growth Pact and again in October, following questions from Mr Pechtold. What is the Prime Minister's view of postponement or possible postponement for France?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u79	I believe that the Commission is maintaining the Stability and Growth Pact with the statement made today. I think it makes no sense to have two ministers here who both respond to the same subject. I'll leave it at that. Either I'm standing here alone, and then I'll answer all the questions, or the Minister of Trade will continue in his field. To the general question whether the Commission is maintaining the Stability and Growth Pact, the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u80	But there are specific agreements that France must comply with the 3% standard. That too has often been mentioned. Now there is another delay of two years until 2017 for that 3%. That is not in line with the Prime Minister's previous statements that all countries must comply with these agreements and that 3% must be seen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u81	Sure. That's right. That is also the case here. Of course, we're all too slow. The question is whether the Commission is applying the Stability and Growth Pact correctly. My belief is that this is the case. There was, of course, concern about it in the last few months or so, but with the statements made today by the relevant Commissioners, everything points out that the Commission is doing so. I regret that France needs this. I would like France itself to see the importance of doing these things rather than being encouraged by the Commission. We see to the Netherlands that, if you put your public finances in order and if you reform, that leads to room for additional economic growth. That is also the case at the moment, partly thanks to the support of many parties of coalition and opposition in this Chamber. Then a country comes back on the right path. As far as I am concerned, France could draw inspiration from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u82	The Prime Minister has also expressed his own opinion on this recently. He has always embraced motions that have been tabled on this issue. They were not just about the word 'Stability and Growth Pact', but also about no more delay for France. I am extremely afraid that the words that the Prime Minister is now saying contain the possibility of a postponement for France. Hence the question: can the Prime Minister imagine a further delay in France?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u83	France has to comply with the commitments of the Stability and Growth Pact, including those of the 3%, and the Commission has to apply the Stability and Growth Pact. I believe that the Commission is doing this correctly today. This means that France will have to announce additional cuts before the summer and introduce additional reforms. If that does not happen, sanctions may follow. That is a strong opinion of the Commission today. I only regret that this is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u84	That is something different from what the Prime Minister said in the autumn: no, it will be postponed until March, but then it must be done. Now it's being postponed again and the Prime Minister agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u85	No, Mr Buma has it all wrong. We discussed this last time. Then Mr Buma was just as kind to one of us and now I have to endure it. Last year we discussed that France asked the Commission for a postponement and that it did not reach a final judgment until March. That's what's going on today. That judgment is firm. This indicates that the Commission is implementing the Stability and Growth Pact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u86	Nevertheless, I keep saying: with a two-year delay for France. That was not the intention when the Chamber made its ruling in November.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u87	Mr Buma must read the Stability and Growth Pact very carefully. The Commission has to maintain the Stability and Growth Pact. The previous cabinet with the CDA in it, like this cabinet that is, was a strong supporter of an independent position of the relevant European Commissioners. I believe that they have made an independent statement today about France pointing to the maintenance of the Stability and Growth Pact. France does indeed have to abide by those agreements. Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u88	Mr. Chairman. Most of the questions I have been asked relate to Greece. Thank you for the kind words of several Members of Parliament about the final outcome and my role in it. Maybe I can make a few comments about the process. We needed three euro groups to do that. After the first Eurogroup, some concluded that there was another crisis and major problems, and that it all went wrong. If you look at where we came from and the views and beliefs with which this new government first moved to Brussels, then we have come out incredibly quickly with each other. That's the way it is. I'm just happy about that. I think that is good for Greece and for the euro area. It is indeed a matter of trust. Partly because of the way in which the new Greek government initially approached the European partners, a great deal of confidence has been lost. The simple argument that the problems in Greece arise from the European aid programme seems to me to be the opposite world. This has been the subject of a heated debate in the Eurogroup. Maybe I should take a few questions and actually walk by. What is the meaning of the list that came in at 11:15 p.m. on Monday? That list is no more than an indication of how serious this new Greek government really is when it says it wants to move forward with the programme. This was needed in the Eurogroup. And yes, there is some flexibility in the program. You are allowed to replace measures. This is about the process of taking action when it is done in accordance with the institutions, which must agree to it, and when these measures have equivalent budgetary effects or if they have economic added value, strengthen the economic structure. They certainly shouldn't take that process out of the lead or off the rails. That is the flexibility that exists. Then the ministers in the Eurogroup said: we want a little more indication of what the Greek Government is actually planning. What further reforms does it intend to undertake? What new reforms does it intend to undertake? And what does that mean for the program as it is? This list is therefore no more than an initial indication. He doesn't have any status, so to speak. So the programme as it stands, with all the agreements on what Greece should do, is in principle simply taken over by the new Greek Government. With this list we have given an indication of how one would like to proceed and what changes one would like to get rid of. This will be discussed in the coming weeks, not later than the end of April. This can therefore lead to changes in the current programme, but only if we agree on them and if they are equivalent measures in terms of effects. That's the status of the list. So if I read here and there in the media 'Eurogroup now agrees with list', it sounds like a new memorandum of understanding, a new reform programme, has been agreed. So it's not like that. The old program is still there. The Greek Government has only given us an insight into how it would like to adapt it and what it would like to do with it. That is what we are going to see in the coming months. That will have to be much more detailed, because we also need to be able to assess what this will mean for the economy, for the banks, for the stability of the financial sector, and for the budget. Only when we can assess that in detail can things be replaced in the current programme. The list doesn't have any more meaning; it gives us an indication. In this way, the Chamber must also understand the IMF's remark. The IMF is critical of the list. It notes that this list does not give us any clarity as to how the Greeks want to proceed with a number of important reforms. Do they want to take it out? Do they want to replace it? Do they want to change it? That list is far too global for that. For the talks that are to take place in the coming weeks, the IMF has already indicated that we want to know what is going to happen to the important reforms that were in the programme; can we still appeal to you to change that? It'll all come back. This critical attitude of the IMF is widely shared in the euro group. It's not like the list is the new program now. I would like to explain this. So what does flexibility mean? Things can change. So if the Greek Government says it wants to address a number of social needs in society, it can do so. However, if that means budgetary consolidation, you will have to find alternative austerity measures, because the budget must not be out of hand. Several spokesmen also asked what that means for the primary balance. In principle, they committed themselves to the balance path that we agreed with each other in November 2012. This means that the primary surplus will have to be 3% this year. At the same time, we are not going to treat Greece any harder than other programme countries. If the economic situation is not as good as it was in Greece in the last quarter of last year, it may be that the budgetary path is adjusted accordingly. We haven't agreed to that now. It is certainly not up to the Greek Government to decide unilaterally: oh, we are now off this budgetary objective. That is by no means the case. We have committed ourselves to the timetable, and it is up to the Commission to assess whether, if the economy has actually got off the ground again in the fourth quarter of last year, it can be extended, in other words whether more time is available to achieve that balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u89	The Minister of Finance is actually saying that this list is indicative and that that does not mean anything. But on the basis of that list, which is not a new programme, how can he decide to give these Greeks four months more time? In this whole programme, for example, I do not read about the 150,000 officials who should be fired. That hasn't worked out yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u90	I'll be right back on those officials.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u91	The minister wants to know what he's up to before he says, "I'll give you another four months to benefit from the doubt."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u92	That is why Friday's statement was much more important to me than Monday's list. Why? In that statement on Friday, the new Greek Government is committed to the programme as it was there. She said: we are going to abide by it and feel committed to it, we accept that we should only change things in consultation and in agreement, and we commit ourselves to the balance path and so on. All those hard deals in that statement on Friday give me confidence. Then some ministers said that it was important to know what the Greek Government was seriously planning. They wanted to know: what does she want to change, can we get a picture of it? That is why it was agreed in addition that the Greeks would provide a list by Monday at the latest to get a picture of what they are actually going to continue, what they want to add to it and where they would like to get rid of it. We have that indication, but it's purely from the hands of the Greeks. This has not been negotiated, nor has the Eurogroup approved it; it has no status. At the beginning of this negotiation process, it gives us an idea of the extent to which the Greek Government is serious about any adjustment of the programme. It concerns six pages of measures that we recognized and which were also in the previous MoU. By the way, they were detailed in that. That level of detail is not insignificant, because of course it is about: what does it really mean? It's just a starting point. That was also what we asked the Greek Government to do. We wanted to have an idea of whether there is a sufficiently comprehensive, a efficient comprehensive starting point. The answer of the three institutions is yes. But no more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u93	It's okay for the Minister to say "troika." In this house, he doesn't need to talk about "institutions." He can just say "troika" here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u94	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u95	I get that the Greeks are a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u96	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u97	I can also say "institutions" of course. It's up to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u98	Yeah, but just to point out...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u99	We don't need to...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u100	Mr Van Dijck, were you going to ask another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u101	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u102	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u103	Why is that usually the first word of a question? Why doesn't the Minister of Finance simply say 'troika'?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u104	Mr Van Dijck wants to hear me say 'troika'. Then I say "troika." However, I also talk very often about 'institutions'. Sometimes I use the word "institutions" very specifically; I just keep doing it when that's relevant. I don't think there's anything relevant about a battle for words. I don't care about that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u105	That was another interesting debate, because the Minister can always say that he said it as Minister of Finance and not as President of the Eurogroup. So this troika story can be solved. I have the next question. The Greek Government has made a number of proposals. The Minister gave that clear expression. How do they relate to the 7 billion payout?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u106	I'll talk to you about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u107	Then I'm gonna let that go. I have another question. Perhaps the Minister will come to talk about this too, otherwise I would like to receive an answer now. Or, no, I'm gonna leave this question for a while and wait for the Minister's statement to be followed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u108	Let me outline the whole process we are going through with the Greeks. The Greek Government has now indicated what it broadly wants. This means that from now on we need to start a few processes at once. The first and most important process is to discuss with the Greeks what they really want to change seriously in the programme they have signed up for. We need to show in detail how much that costs or yields in the budget, what the economic effects are and what we might want to trade for them. This could be privatisations, but privatisations represent a certain yield in the programme. Moreover, Mr Van Dijck referred to the first dreamed revenue of 50 billion. Frankly, that amount has never been realistic. This has been recognised halfway through the programme, also by the Eurogroup and the institutions of the troika, as Mr Van Dijck says, but he is entitled to do so, so that amount has already been adjusted. The package of privatisations is now in the programme. If this were to be done in part, other sources of funding would have to be provided, otherwise the programme would have to go through the hoofs. That process is about to begin. As far as I'm concerned, it's fast. We have put a deadline on it. At the end of April there must be a new package, with the signatures below, so that it is clear: this is what you are going to do. Then there are two months left to implement the package. My advice to the Greek Government is therefore to start this week with the actual recovery of the programme. We simply need to take action and implement things, because if we were to wait until the end of April and only then to introduce, there would be very little time left. Mr Van Haersma Buma has asked when the money will become available. The money will only be available if there is evidence of implementation. This is always the case with such programmes. We cut up programmes and we cut up the sums. We could do that now. Moreover, the amounts on the European side are still very limited. The largest amount currently available under the current programme comes from the IMF. The money, in every program, will always be available only if it is implemented. As long as we have not even agreed exactly what the programme is going to be, then that is what we are going to agree specifically with each other. That's very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u109	There's one thing I haven't quite figured out yet. I think Greece will be about dry on 1 March. Isn't there going to be another moment when things are going to go wrong? Or is there indeed room to judge the matter properly and then pay out money?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u110	Greece has been dry for a long time with regard to loans from the institutions. The last review that was completed was the fourth. That was a really long time ago. Since then, we have been constantly in the process of the fifth review and no money has been paid out. This will remain the case until there is a review of progress. It's all quiet now. It can only be restarted if there is agreement on what the programme looks like. That is the first step: the programme needs to be re-established. Then, hopefully, Greece has already started introducing measures. If we have made considerable progress, we can start a review again. On the basis of a review, part of the money can be paid out. That's all still to be determined. That won't be in the short term. To Mr Buma's question about what will happen in March, the answer is: it is, first and foremost, a real responsibility of the Greek authorities. I can't look in the greenhouse there. I do not know what resources are in the cash register or what is coming in at the moment. Are taxes being paid again? I hope so. And so on. But it is true: there are a number of financing commitments in March. In April it is a bit less and in June it gets up again. It's not our responsibility. The Greek Government itself remains responsible. It has also confirmed that it will fulfil its financial obligations. That's really up to her. So we don't turn the order around. We are not going to spend money "because they need money, and then we will see if there will be reform." No, we need to reform first. Mr Harbers also mentioned this as one of his conditions in his term. I've already had a whole bunch of questions. Specific questions have also been asked about the tax reform. When does it have to be there? How much result is it supposed to yield? The tax reform has, of course, long been implemented by the previous government. Several spokesmen have said that nothing has been done and that agreements have not been kept, but in all honesty: a lot has not happened, but a lot has happened. The previous Greek government has acted incredibly hard. That is also one of the reasons why there are so many social needs. Let us be honest: the budget has been dealt with hard. That could not have been otherwise, because the budget deficit was 15%.............................................................................................................................................................................................. This has now been reduced to a very small deficit, in terms of primary balance even to a primary surplus. The tax reform has also produced results. For the first time last year, tax revenues were actually increasing for the first time. Unfortunately, when the elections were announced, they collapsed again. It is vital to the survival of this government. I can't see it any other way: this has to be reversed very quickly. If there is some kind of tax strike in Greece, if everyone doesn't want to pay anything at all for the time being, then it's been looked at very quickly. That would really be disastrous. A question has also been asked about the Lagarde list: how is it now? The current Greek government immediately removed the Lagarde list from the drawer. You can find a lot of it, but this government is extremely serious. Whether they're all gonna succeed is question two. They are extremely serious in tackling tax avoidance, tax evasion, corruption, etc. They speak very motivated about that. Mr Van Bommel has asked a question about the loans so far. He asked: were these loans indeed for the most part spent on paying off banks and paying off other loans? Yeah, that's true. And don't forget the interest payments. Did Greece help with that? Yes, very! They have received European loans for this purpose, with an average maturity of 32 years and an interest rate that is extremely low. As a result, the burden of financing, the pressure of public debt, now net, has become extremely low in cash.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u111	I do see these financial and economic effects. I agree with the Minister on that point. I asked my question mainly because the picture that has always been raised is that that money would have been spent to keep up the public sector in Greece. That is not the case. The Minister can confirm that, can't he? If the money goes to banks, loans, repayments and interest, then it does not end up with health care, education and other public services.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u112	That is not true, I regret to have to correct Mr Van Bommel. These loans were made once for all kinds of public expenditure. Although they have now been refinanced on more favourable terms, they are more likely to be: far ahead of the crisis, they have already been committed by the same government to keep expenditure up to date. When people say it's all Europe's fault and this programme..................................................................................................................................................................................................... It's all been issued by previous governments. Yes, in the sphere of the public sector, or corruption; you name it. This was then financed by all kinds of loans, which have now been replaced. The image that Mr Van Bommel evokes is that we have only spent the money to save banks. But I'm sorry, that money has been spent by previous governments in an earlier phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u113	But at the end of the day, when the loans were granted, the money was used to keep the banks going. That cannot be combated. We are quick to agree that there has been an inadequate policy on public finances. The figures are the figures, with a deficit, but also the problems in the tax field, with public finances and with their control etc. All these factors have combined to make the outcome negative. I think we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u114	We certainly agree on that. As far as the banks are concerned, I often hear them say that this money was only used to save their own Northwest European banks from the Greek problems. I am very sorry, but these banks have simply provided funding to Greek citizens, businesses and governments. They were just entitled to a refund. When the Greek Government could not supply it, it was able to borrow cheaper from Europe to pay its debts to these private creditors. Did something inauspicious happen there? No, not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u115	I hear the Minister say a number of times that it is a starting point, but this is the end point. We're talking about the last tranche. For example, what happened to that Lagarde list over the last five years? It's been there for five years, with 2,000 names. There's 200 billion in foreign Swiss bank accounts. For five years, I have been asking almost every Ecofin debate about Papandreou's mother with her 550 million in the bank. A 91-year-old woman with 550 million in the bank: how is it possible! Every time the minister says: we're on top of it with the troika, 200 people are investigating. That list is a gift; 2,000 names! And that list is just in the drawer for five years. And now, in the final phase with a new government, it would be arrested.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u116	In the last sentence of Mr Van Dijck, the answer is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u117	But then the Minister would have been on the hook for five years, wouldn't he? If there's a list of 2,000 names and there's 200 billion for picking up and the troika doesn't intervene and goes along with the Greeks who say "we're working on it," you're gonna let them fool you for five years?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u118	We have had this debate with Mr Van Dijck. The amounts on the Lagarde list he mentions have never been substantiated. Greece and Switzerland are negotiating the breaking of banking secrecy and the exchange of information to see which part of it has been excluded from Greek taxation. Of course, that's not 200 billion. I love all these large numbers, and that sounds like the Greek problem has been solved, but it is not. However, a lot of money has been tricked out of Greece. I think this is happening to this day because people do not have confidence in the situation in Greece. And yes, there is a long-standing culture of tax avoidance and tax evasion, and that is a big problem for Greece. That's why it's always been a priority to get the IRS in order. That's what happened. There have been many more cases in this area, even in recent years. That Lagarde list requires real cooperation with Switzerland. I know that Mr Van Dijck wanted to make me personally responsible for this, but unfortunately I have neither jurisdiction in Switzerland nor directly in Greece. The current government has urged the prosecution to give priority to these cases in order to actually bring them to justice. I think that's a fair approach. That's where there's profit. Mr Van Bommel asked what the Dutch share in the Greek loans was, partly because the CBS linked a new number to that yesterday. The CBS mentioned that the Dutch government lent 11.9 billion to Greece. That would be €700 per Dutchman. We also had to puzzle about how to get there. There is a bilateral loan from the Netherlands to Greece of 3.2 billion. They probably added these to the guarantees on the principal amount of 8.7 billion for which the Netherlands is liable to the EFSF. A guarantee amount has therefore been added to a bilateral loan amount. Those are a little incomparable things. In any case, Mr Van Bommel knows that the Dutch share in the EFSF is 6%. The total amount of EFSF loans to Greece is 143 billion. That's one way to approach it. But it's not like we lent it out. Nor is it as if we first lent to the EFSF and the EFSF to Greece. They're tricky numbers. I present them in the back of the Millions note and in the annual report. The House can see exactly how many guarantees there are, how much capital we have invested in the funds and how much we have borrowed directly. The direct loan from the Netherlands to Greece is 3.2 billion. In addition, through the EFSF, we are part guarantors, but these are two different things. Mrs. Schouten said the minister said he doesn't want grexit, but doesn't that mean you're handing yourself over to the Greeks? Let me get this straight. I think the past few weeks have shown that the opposite is the case. I have always said that it is indeed a political position that I am committed to keeping the eurozone intact and that countries in it must abide by the rules. This was also widely shared in the euro group. If countries are in temporary difficulties, they can count on support, but this is accompanied by additional conditions, which must therefore be respected. If we had not really lost our negotiating position with this political stance, then this agreement would not have come out. The real situation is that Greece's stability, especially in the financial sector, was threatened if we had not reached this agreement. I believe that Mr Van Bommel also pointed that out. That gives a negotiating position, because that simply means that we need urgent help and that we need the protection of the programme again, because otherwise the drain in the banks will continue to accelerate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u119	The Minister is very firm about meeting agreements with Greece, but why is this not the case with France? Why doesn't the Minister put his fist on the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u120	I wasn't ready for that. I'm still talking about Greece.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u121	Yes, but that strength in Greece is not reflected in France.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u122	That is not a question; that is a view which I take note of.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u123	You'll come back to France later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u124	I do not really have much more to add to the Prime Minister, but I will say something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u125	I still have to get used to the fact that the Minister of Finance is now even agreeing with words from the SP, but all right. My question concerns the following. The Minister for Finance says that we have not given up our negotiating position by saying that we want to keep the Greeks within the eurozone. Today the message came out that a minister from the Greek cabinet said: I am not going to continue with privatisations. That is, as far as I understand, part of the memorandum of understanding, which still stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u126	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u127	What then is the euro group's sanction if Greece does not do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u128	It's very simple. If things are changed unilaterally or agreements are not met, there will therefore be no finalisation of the programme. Then there will be no more support for Greece. Secondly, as Mrs Schouten knows, the ECB has closed off access to some of its instruments for Greek banks and has banned ceilings on them. The ECB will only lift these ceilings and restrictions once again if it has the confidence that Greece is now working seriously on the programme again. So, through Mrs Schouten, I say to every Greek minister who has resisted or has not yet been able to take note of the content of Friday's agreements: beware that you do not lose the protective umbrella that the programme now offers you and which you may even get back from the ECB if things go well again. But I assume this is an issue that will be resolved within the Greek cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u129	I wonder what this material means. The Minister says that the programme cannot be completed. This also means that no payments can be made and that the ECB stops, for example, with the ELISA programme or other benefits in kind. In the end, this means that Greece has no option other than to go bankrupt, which, in material terms, comes out of the euro area. Does the Minister share this conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u130	No, of course not, because this is an "if, if, if" argument. I've learned you have to stop at the first "if" and here's three in a row. What I know and what I hold the Greek Government to is what I myself agreed with the Greek Prime Minister. The Greeks are now committing themselves to the programme that is under way. They will then be able to use flexibility in the near future, but only in accordance with and with the agreement of the troika institutions. That's the deal. If there are confusing communications about this in the media of individual ministers, I assume that the Greek Prime Minister is speaking to them. I am quite relaxed about that, because the Greek Government has asked us to continue to support it. If people say the next day that they are not going to do it, then there is no such support. That's why I'm relaxed about it. I assume that people are getting to work seriously. This is particularly in our own interest, given the threat of instability. The question is whether the IMF and the ECB remain involved. The answer to that question is yes. What will the ECB do in the coming weeks? This is determined by the ECB itself in independence and on the basis of whether the ECB has confidence, not only in the fact that there is now an agreement with the euro group, but also in the fact that that agreement will be kept.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u131	This is an important point. Suppose Greece asks for more money after four months, can it at least be clear that the IMF will remain there before it is discussed at all and whatever talks will take place? It shouldn't be that the Greeks are thinking: we're done with that, it's getting easier now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u132	No, that's unthinkable for several reasons. The IMF programme will continue until mid-2016. No promise has been made and no agreement has been made on a possible follow-up. However, we have noted with each other that the possibility may arise that we should look at it and rather look at it sober, real and timely. In any case, the IMF remains involved, because the IMF programme is continuing and we attach great importance to the involvement of the IMF. The same applies to the other question put by Mr Van Haersma Buma, namely whether all the loans are actually repaid. That's right. We have talked to the Greeks so far only about debt relief. These included repayment periods, interest rates and risk surcharges. So the principle is: when countries borrow from each other and help each other, the nominal amounts of loans are simply paid back nicely. I also attach great importance to this, because we cannot rule out the possibility that we will end up in such a situation again in the future. If we have to tell the Dutch Parliament that the money is really coming back, when it just didn't happen the last time, we have created a great problem of confidence. Mr Van Haersma Buma also asked about the capital market union. The European Council, of which I was allowed to attend, also discussed the future of monetary union. At that time, reference was made only very briefly to the capital market union. The Presidents have jointly presented an analytical paper on where we stand, looking back on the crisis. Are the measures taken sufficient? Are we good enough now? The conclusion is that more will really have to be done in the area of economic cooperation. That piece doesn't say how or what. However, the Commission itself will come forward with proposals for a capital market union. The Dutch Government supports this. This involves developing a capital market alongside bank finance, which is very strong in Europe. In this capital market, smaller companies could also receive their funding not only from the bank, but could in future also take over risk from the market through corporate bonds or otherwise. Of course, large companies have been doing this for a long time. We look forward to these proposals, which will come later. This is the state of the capital market union. Finally, I come to France. I have heard many firm points of view and harsh statements, first of all from D66, but I have not yet seen a document from Brussels. All I've seen is the text of the press conference. My conclusion is that the Commission does not consider what is now the case with the French Government to be adequate. France will have to make additional cuts this year. If I understand correctly, this is a 0.2% structural deficit improvement. That is 4 billion, and that must be done by May at the latest. I will, of course, inform the Chamber exactly about the Commission's position. We will hold a debate before the Eurogroup meeting on 9 March. The Commission also considers that the reforms are insufficient, despite the fact that there is real movement in France. We must, of course, give some credit for this. Some reforms are now being implemented even by decree outside parliament. The Commission believes that an additional reform package should be drawn up by April at the latest. For both routes, if it does not happen or is insufficient, a further step in the procedure will follow. It's called stepping-up in Brussels jargon. In the budgetary procedure, this inevitably leads to a sanctioning mechanism. During the reform process you will be put on the penalty bench and you will get a visit to the troika, just to summarize it popularly. Mr Koolmees remembers the concept of "troika" from the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u133	That sounds clear and firm to me. In recent times, it has always been the line of the cabinet. It is also hidden in the European Commission's press release, but it also states that the Commission recommends giving France until 2017 to reduce the excessive deficit, the deficit above 3%. This is not in line with the agreements we have made here, with the statements of the cabinet and with the Van Haersma Buma/Pechtold motion adopted?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u134	I don't have the latter right now, but I'm glad the Prime Minister does. The motion calls on the government to keep France strictly in line with the SGP's commitments and not to agree to a different outcome. The Prime Minister has already said that the Netherlands has fought very hard to ensure that the Commission itself makes an assessment of this. The Commission has made an assessment of what France has done in recent years. Is that enough? I still have to study the documents, but if the Commission's analysis concludes that the structural deficit has been sufficiently improved, then there is the possibility of giving a country further delay. That's just in the procedures. If Mr Koolmees says that he can't, he has to point me out where the rules state that that possibility doesn't exist. That possibility exists. This kind of opportunity is in the pact. I didn't make it, but the Chamber approved it once. If Mr Koolmees thinks that France should be below 3% in one go this year, then we have to cut 24 or 26 billion. Nothing is impossible, but if the Commission says that it does not think it is sufficient in the budget or in the reforms and that it wants to take a further step this year, that seems to me to be a fair assessment. Mr Koolmees may think it should have been even stricter, but we have given the Commission far-reaching powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u135	The line of the Dutch cabinet has always been: agreements apply to all countries. Motions have been adopted for strict enforcement of the Stability and Growth Pact. France has already been delayed for two years. The Netherlands then received a one-year delay. Now it seems that the Commission recommends to the Ecofin Council that a further two years be postponed. The Dutch cabinet has always said: we are not going to do that, we are not going to accept that. It is good that agreements have been made, it is good that reforms are finally being implemented, it is good that steps are being taken now, but it cannot be the intention that two more years should be granted. Is that still the attitude of the cabinet, or is it now: we are waiting for what the Commission is proposing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u136	I can say a few things about that. I do not think the cabinet has said: we do not agree with that. After all, we did not know what the Commission's opinion was. It would be very strange to say before that moment that we do not agree. What is happening now is really different from what happened last time, and that reassures me. Last time, France was given two years without conditions, without having to do more directly or in the current year. The Netherlands did, and that was the unfair treatment at the time. The Netherlands received a year, but immediately had to cut 6 billion more. You remember, you were involved. We have done so and the most interesting thing is that at the end of the year we did not need an additional year of delay. We were immediately below the minus 3%. But France was treated differently at the time, and that included my perseverance, including in the euro group. I do not want to speak of improvement, but it cannot be the case that large countries and small countries are treated differently. My case was always that the Netherlands and France both got more time and that France got it without conditions, while the Netherlands immediately had to cut 6 billion. I have also said this explicitly a few times in the euro group. That can't happen again. And you won't. What is happening now is that France will receive the Dutch treatment: they can have more time, but then they will have to cut 4 billion more by May of this year on top of the extra things France had already done in recent months. It's a stretch of pushing and pulling. France has already done more in terms of austerity and reform, but the Commission believes that it is not enough. The treatment that the Netherlands received at that time is now being given to France: it is not enough, you need to do more now. I thought that was a justified approach, and I was at peace with it at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u137	There is still a point in the treatment of France compared to the Netherlands. France has already had the time and has done too little. It is not sudden that France is short; it has been coming for years. That is why I call on the Cabinet to be stricter than to say that it is in the Stability and Growth Pact. This is very much like a much more political interpretation of the Stability and Growth Pact than we have ever intended from the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u138	No, I don't think so. I'm saying that because I want to see the pieces. For the analysis is important what ultimately has been the assessment of France's performance over the past two years. If, over the past two years, they have not even provided 0.5% of what we call effective action in the rules on effective action, sanctions should be imposed immediately and there should be no delay. The Commission seems to have come to the conclusion that sufficient progress has been made in recent years. There is then the possibility to give more time to France, given the economic situation, but that will also have to be justified by the Commission. Fortunately, what has happened this time is that it has not been said that France will have more time and we will see it in two years' time. France has only been given more time under the condition that they take additional austerity measures before May of this year. That is the approach taken by the Netherlands, and I think that is also a correct approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u139	The Minister is not used to it from me, but I deliberately put a few questions in my text in the first term and now no one is being answered. I would therefore like to remind the Minister of my three questions. Is it true that there is still 76 billion in taxes in Greece? That's gone from 20 to 60 to 76 billion. How many companies have actually been privatised, and how much has it achieved so far from the EUR 24 billion target? I come to four state lotteries and less than two billion in privatisation, but okay. My final question concerns the civil servants. How many officials out of 150,000 who would have been fired have actually been fired?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u140	I have the answer to the question about the late tax collection if not ready, but it is certainly considerable. I have heard that the new government intends to dismiss part of it with some sort of repentance scheme. We attach great importance to getting a payment culture in Greece that rewards good behavior and punishes bad behavior. That goes for paying your rent, your mortgage, but also for paying your taxes. That's part of the program, too. That may be the intention, but that does not mean that it is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u141	Why don't we just answer all the questions and then have a little discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u142	The second question concerned civil servants. I have information on the basis of the fourth review and it is from a while ago. This shows that the number of civil servants in the public sector fell from 907,000 to 651,000 in 2014. We are not there yet, because, as Mr Van Dijck knows, it was the agreement to go back to.I hope I read the table correctly.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. So some of the agreements have not yet happened, but a great deal has happened. That's actually kind of the story of the whole Greek program. Very few parts have been executed completely and quickly, but a lot has happened. The image of Mr Van Dijck that nothing has happened at all is really wrong. If nothing had really happened, the deficit would still be 15%. And it's not. I forgot the third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u143	Privatization.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u144	I think your information on that point is broadly correct. Very little has happened yet. The state lotteries have been shortened, but very little has happened. I can answer more accurately in the second term, if that's what you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u145	So not much has happened. Maybe with the officials a little more, but not with privatisation. The Greeks' idea of loosing taxes is a very perverse incentive, isn't it? In other words, if you don't pay, you'll pay less and get a discount. In the Netherlands you get a fine, but there you get a discount. What does the Minister think of the idea of tax cancellation for people who have an outstanding debt?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u146	I think I just answered that question, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u147	It's a perverse incentive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u148	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u149	Bad behavior...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u150	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u151	Rewarding bad behavior is, of course, a perverse incentive, and we don't have to argue about it for long. The Greek Government has made all kinds of proposals and has taken up the campaign with all kinds of proposals. I do not hear about many of these proposals anymore. Some of the proposals will be put on the table in discussions with the troika's institutions. Then it will be looked at how that works out financially. But of course there is no room for presents, that is obvious. Whatever else you think of the programme or the approach of these programme countries through the euro area, one thing is certain: if Greece wants to be financially independent again, and that is what they want there, because it is a proud country, there will simply have to be a balanced budget and it will have to be able to finance itself. Mr Van Dijck understands how much room that gives for too many gifts to the voters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u152	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance for their reply. I'm starting my second term with France. In fact, France received a postponement in 2013 like the Netherlands, then for two years and the Netherlands for one year. As the Minister of Finance has just described, the Netherlands was given terms, the package of six billion, and France was not. We've talked about this before. Several motions have been passed in Parliament. There have also been statements, for example by the Prime Minister in May 2014: "This Commissioner is now on the move. It must now show (...) that France will also comply with the Stability and Growth Pact, which prescribes the 3%." In December 2014, he said: "We believe that the SGP should be maintained and should not be stretched in any way." These seem to me to be clear statements, which are also in line with the motions that have been tabled. Today, the Prime Minister told the NIS that the cabinet supports the European Commission's proposal to give France additional time under conditions to come under the European budget standard. I have the impression that France will be delayed for another two years. Yes, there is reform; yes, there is an announcement of austerity, but if there is a point, the European Commission is now saying that until 2017 there is time to postpone the agreements made. I find this hard to explain. In October, Mr Buma and Mr Pechtold tabled a motion on the strict enforcement of the Stability and Growth Pact. This motion has been passed. Mr Buma will shortly table a similar motion, including on my behalf. I believe that France should also comply with the SGP and that double standards should not be applied. The latter seems to be happening again now. We will indeed see the analysis in the coming week, but I think that the Dutch cabinet should be tough in Europe in order to reach agreement against further delay. That's a wrong sentence, but the Minister understands what I mean. Mr Buma will therefore be tabling this motion on my behalf shortly. As far as Greece is concerned, I would like to thank the Minister for Finance for the clear answers. D66 can agree to the extension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u153	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for his clear answer to some of the questions I have asked and analyses that I have told him about, for example, the crisis that had arisen in the banking sector in Greece as a result of taking EUR 1 billion off the bank in one day. As a result, the system collapsed and the acute emergency called for Europe to act. In doing so, positions proved to be more liquid than we initially thought. On the Greek side, there was a degree of flexibility and agreement was reached on reforms. That's good news. I have already explained my agreement in the first term, and I will stick with that. I don't see it as a huge change either. When asked and challenged by colleagues, I took up the motions from my colleagues' past. I would remind Mrs Schouten and Mr Klaver of motions from 2010, 2011 and 2012 by Mr Irrgang, in which he keeps saying that the government can only provide financial support if this is accompanied by a restructuring of Greek debt. I refer to the motion tabled on 7 May 2010 under 21501-07, No. 714. You can also get the other numbers, if you like.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u154	Perhaps I should apologize to Mr Van Bommel and have not read the documents correctly. I'll look into it so seriously, but I haven't read anything about debt restructuring. Can Mr Van Bommel tell me what has now been agreed on debt restructuring?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u155	No, my explanation now is a response to what Mr Klaver initially claimed, namely that my party would never have agreed to a package. That's not right. We have always laid down conditions for aid to Greece. When it was not satisfied, we said: we do not agree. That has been the course of action. I started my first term by saying that there is now another situation, namely an emergency situation caused by a banking run that caused the whole system to explode.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u156	I guess I didn't pay attention again. In 2010 it is probably all exaggerated, because at that time there was no emergency when Greece had to be saved. The story that Mr Van Bommel is holding now is a bit weird and not entirely consistent. In 2010 there was also an emergency. That was one of the reasons why my party, which was also critical of the package, indicated: we support it, because we want to ensure that Greece stays within the euro. I am glad that the SP now indicates that it supports this package, but I would just like to point out that there is no restructuring of debt. It was indeed an acute situation and it had to be resolved. I am glad that the SP has finally taken about four years, but that is something of a twist. Mr Van Bommel, I think you're doing yourself a favor if you don't try to make that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u157	I thank Mr Klaver for his support for our position. That's what he says. He welcomed the new position of the SP; that is his reading. The point is that the situation is certainly different now than it was then. At that time, there were other debts than now. Private debt and public debt are two very different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u158	Mr. Nijboer, challenged.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u159	I like to count the blessings, so I was gonna ask you the same way. Does the SP support the current package that has been agreed, or the intention to come up with a new package as it now stands, also with the Dutch involvement involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u160	What is now before us is a temporary solution. I have expressed my support for this in the first term and also in the second.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u161	Then I welcome the SP in the sensible camp in the Europe debate. That is indeed a surprising turn that colleagues have highlighted. I think it's a sensible course. I would like to thank the SP for supporting this line, which the PvdA, D66 and, by the way, other parties have been promoting for some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u162	I'm glad I can do the PvdA a favor today. I think I did that in the first term. If Mr Nijboer also needs my second term, I am happy to be of service to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u163	Thank you very much, Mr Van Bommel. Mr Klaver has indicated that he does not need a second term. I call Mrs Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u164	Mr. Chairman. You can be surprised again, in such a debate! Let me start with France. According to the Minister of Finance, what France gets can be done according to the pact. Let me put it this way: anything you can, you shouldn't always want. What France is now getting and has also asked for, perhaps even though it has not proved that it has put the reforms in order, is undermining the morale of the euro area. That's more dangerous than anything. It is not acceptable to many countries to take the necessary measures, even in those countries which are even more vulnerable to the challenge of Europe. Does the Minister of Finance recognise that, even if possible, this is very dangerous for the morale of the euro area? Let me now turn to Greece. It will not be surprising that we are not turning and that we are sticking to our view that what has now been chosen as a solution is not a structural solution for Greece. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the extension of the loan programme will once again provide a temporary solution to Greece's problems;]] [[Whereas the current approach is a temporary political solution to a problem with Greece that will only become more financial and social;]] [[calls on the government to commit itself in Europe to a structural solution to the problems of Greece,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Schouten and Mr Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-948]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u165	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the two directors for their reply. First of all, I will deal with Greece. The answer given by the Minister of Finance was one that I very much recognize. I summarize him: see first, then believe then pay later. This is a good order. I very much hope that the Greeks themselves are aware of this, and I have heard the Minister well on this matter, that the ball is with them. I think that is important, because the Greeks have tried to kick the ball over to the others. It can't be. That is where the big task lies and it remains there. If they meet their commitments, they can expect the euro group to do the same. That's the way things are, and it's not different. I have also heard the Minister for Finance very well that, if it is to come back to further programmes, we hope that this will not happen in the case of the Netherlands, the IMF must remain involved. I'm so attached to that, because that's gonna keep the independent test going. These are important things that make me believe that the agreements that have been made over the past week are also the ones that had to be made. Now I come to the point of France, which suddenly came forward today. I would like to say that the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister said rather quickly: this is the Stability and Growth Pact. Preferably, the Prime Minister said it in the media this afternoon, and the Minister of Finance is now saying he still has to read the documents, I get that. This Chamber has always stated that France must keep its commitments strictly. It seems that, even now, France is being treated differently than a small country would be treated. It can be said a hundred times that this is not the case, the fact that after two years of delay there will be another two years of delay alone points in that direction. I shall therefore table the next motion. Mr Koolmees pointed out that the operative part was the same as the motion tabled by the Chamber in the autumn. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Stability and Growth Pact contains strong commitments on reducing excessive budget deficits in order to ensure the stability of the euro;]] [[noting that France has already been delayed in recent years on this Stability and Growth Pact;]] [[calls on the government to keep France strictly in line with the commitments of the Stability and Growth Pact and not to agree to a different outcome,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Haersma Buma, Koolmees and Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-949]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u166	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Ministers for their reply. I would like to thank the Minister for Finance in particular for the commitments he has made with regard to Greece, and certainly for his response to the balance path and the primary surplus, namely that there can be no unilateral deviation from this by the Greek Government either. The question is what happens in March when they need money again. I said earlier today that if they need money, they should ask the citizens to start all those tax payments that have been suspended since the announcement of elections in December. As far as France is concerned, I said in my first term that I was an abomination of thought. I have also heard the Minister say or hear strong lyrics. Sorry. I must honestly say that the idea of a troika in Paris, where it may be called a troika, is quite firm. At the same time, we know very little. The Minister is going to inform us further. We are going to debate this again, on 9 March. I also note that my core question, namely what France has done in terms of reforms and efforts, is apparently not yet answerable. I would like to look forward to that further information. However, it is also an abomination and I believe that we should continue to debate it. The ultimate goal must be for us all to ensure that France actually comes back into all these frameworks and reforms. If there is one country in Europe, perhaps even Greece after the last country in Europe, where that is very much needed, it is France, so as not to put the competitiveness of the rest of Europe at risk. I have one more question about Greece, namely those privatisations. It was finally answered in an interruption. Should I interpret it in such a way that these privatisations actually count in the forthcoming troika review? I've been looking it up for a while. We have that old vehicle from 2011 that includes all the privatisations. There are even two foreign observers on the board. It has once been agreed that the progress of these privatisations is always an integral part of the troika's progress mission. I would like confirmation that it will continue to be so and that the vehicle, that independent institution, is still functioning as it should.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u167	Mr Nijboer gave up his second term. I shall now give the floor to Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u168	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply on the kidnapping of Christians by IS. Hopefully there will be a solution. As far as France is concerned, I agree with the motion that has just been tabled. We shall support the motion by Mr Buma, Mr Koolmees and Mr Schouten. The motion calls for strict implementation of the SGP and we are always in favour of it. We interpret it in such a way that it is in any case incompatible with an explanation that France will receive another two years. We're going to hear the explanation of the cabinet. Finally, with regard to Greece, I have a negative remark and a positive one. The negative results in the Schouten/Dijkgraaf motion, because we do not believe that this is a structural solution. However, we also believe that you should always count your blessings, so I will conclude with the positive remark that profit is that the alternative measures that are before you are merely an indication of the measures and that they will only be implemented and accepted if they are actually implemented effectively. That's definitely a win.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u169	Mr. Chairman. I only have one motion for a change. But first, I'd like to talk about France. It reminds me of "some pigs are more equal than others" by the well-known George Orwell. In fact, France is making every effort to reform. The French, as we all know, have even reduced the retirement age to 60 years. The Netherlands raises it to 67. France did not receive a post-tax on its pants, but even received a return of 1 billion. So France does not care so much about Europe, but it gets a delay after delay. That is the way relations are in Europe. By order of Brussels, this cabinet cut the Netherlands down in 2013. France will not be allowed to dictate. We have 200 000 extra unemployed and 20,000 bankruptcies and France do not. With regard to Greece, the can is four months ahead. In this way, every year, we advance a few months. We've been doing that for five years. The PVV finds it incomprehensible that this minister still has the confidence that it will be okay in Greece, after five years on the leash. He calls it a fresh start. The PVV has already alerted him that it is a little late to talk about a new start five years after the last tranche. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Dutch government has cut and taxed the Netherlands and lent 18 billion to Greece at the same time;]] [[whereas we need this money in the Netherlands and this must be repaid by Greece as soon as possible;]] [[Whereas Greece has repeatedly called for debt cancellation and/or debt relief and therefore does not intend to comply with its commitments;]] [[Whereas Greece has repeatedly failed to comply with the commitments made and the troika has therefore repeatedly run away;]] [[calls on the Government not to approve the extension of the current programme, with a third aid package and with any form of debt relief;]] [[calls on the government also to ensure that Greece repays its debt to the Netherlands in the short term and to inform the Chamber before 18 March 2015 how and when we will get our money back in the short term, preferably with the promised interest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-950]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u170	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with France. The Minister of Finance says somewhat irritated that the Netherlands receives equal treatment with France at the time. I dare to doubt that. The Netherlands had to reduce the budget deficit from 3.8% to 2.8%, France from 4.1% to 3.9%. France makes all the arrangements. The Netherlands was the best boy in the class back then. It's real apples compared to pears. I therefore totally disagree with the Minister. Greece's not gonna work. That's not gonna lead to anything. We'll be back here in four months. That is why we are tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government not to extend the current EFSF programme and to deploy Greece's departure from the euro area,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-951]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u171	Mr. Chairman. In the first instance, I had to answer the question about the amnesty in the Minsk agreements. I would like to come back to that briefly. I spoke with the President of Ukraine, Mr Poroshenko, in a letter sent to the Chamber by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, about the paragraph on amnesty. He assured me in that conversation that the amnesty laws will not apply to those responsible for bringing down the MH17. This clarity is decisive, because it concerns Ukrainian legislation, which he must ratify. In addition, in its resolution on the Minsk Agreement, the UN Security Council reaffirmed the Security Council Resolution 2166. In this resolution, the Security Council, including Russia, states that the culprits must be tracked down and punished. In other words, no amnesty for the perpetrators of bringing down the MH17. Then I'd like to answer the questions about France. Then the Minister for Finance will answer the questions about Greece. I can be brief about France. Mr Van Haersma Buma has tabled a motion and I like it. I should therefore like to leave the opinion to the Chamber. By the way, it is not the Netherlands in the end that France should adhere to the SGP. The Commission must, of course, do so, but that is more of a fact. But I support the thrust, in which, as promised by the Minister of Finance, an analysis will go to the Chamber of the European Commission's decision today. What we have given the Chamber today is an initial appreciation of that decision. But indeed, France must abide by the commitments of the Growth and Stability Pact as we have always discussed it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u172	That's very good for me. That is a different statement from what the Prime Minister has said so far, because he welcomed the Commission's statement. The Commission makes it very clear that France has a great deal of room for manoeuvre. As the Minister of Finance said, 4 billion cuts. Is that actually a big amount of money? The Netherlands had to cut 6 billion at the time and that economy is about four times as small. So my point is that if the Prime Minister actually takes over the strict observance of the Stability and Growth Pact, it will require a different attitude from that he has so far expressed in the media.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u173	We disagree on that. Our first appreciation of the Commission's statement is that the Commission is keeping France strictly in line with the Stability and Growth Pact. We have just discussed this in detail. We will make a more precise analysis of the Commission's decision and forward it to the Court. There is another debate with the Minister of Finance in the run-up to the eurogroup of, I thought, 9 March, which will discuss this. Our first appreciation is that the Commission is keeping France strictly in line with the Stability and Growth Pact. Once again, this motion also speaks out once more. It is actually superfluous, but well, let us be mild tonight: Judgement Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u174	Mr. Chairman. I was still guilty of a few answers to Mr Van Dijck. I have already given the answer to the question of how many officials have left the government. He also asked about the number of privatisations that have taken place. The last validated judgment is from the end of 2013. That's the last closed review of the institutions. Then the score was that two state lotteries had been sold and OPAP. I don't even remember what OPAP was. Then the proceeds were 2.6 billion. That was the end of 2013. More has happened in 2014, but this information has not been validated by the institutions. Twenty-one privatisations would have been completed with a total revenue of 7.7 billion, but that would have to be a number of small ones. I put the asterisk in "not validated by the institutions." All I know is from the last review of end 2013: 2.6 billion. Mr Van Dijck also asked about the tax revenues that still have to be collected. I can't validate those numbers so quickly. I'm sure Mr Van Dijck didn't make them up. He must have found them somewhere. Maybe he can still help me and tell me where he found them. Then we can still validate them. I couldn't look into the Greek tax authorities' books so fast. He'll have access to that. Of course, that last one's a joke. Then I'll respond to a few motions. The first motion is by Mr Schouten and Mr Dijkgraaf. That's easy. The motion opposes the solution that has now been chosen. That is indeed a temporary solution. It is an extension of four months, for which I request the assent of the Chamber. These Members are opposed to this solution and say: we want a structural solution. Yeah, we all do. However, there is no such thing, certainly not in the short term. This will take a long time, and the programme will contribute to this; I am sure of that. In this sense, this four-month period also contributes to this, but it is only a first step. So I'm deceiving the motion. The motion in part No. Mr Van Dijck also opposed the extension. The government is requested not to agree to it. Mr Van Dijck also wants to know before 18 March how and when we will get our money back in the short term. I do not know where 18 March came from, but I would advise against the motion, just because it opposes the solution that has been found for the next four months. The motion in part No. Mr Bontes' 951 also opposes the four-month extension and asks that Greece leave the euro area. That may also be the structural solution advocated by Mr Schouten and Mr Dijkgraaf, but they are not explicit about it in their motion. They leave that in the middle. Mr Bontes is quite explicit about it. Maybe they mean the same thing. Greece's departure from the euro area would cause enormous economic damage and chaos for Greece. I am only saying it explicitly once again, because some Members talked about it as if leaving the eurozone would be a blessing for Greece. I think they are very, very wrong about that. I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-8.u175	The vote on the motions tabled will take place tomorrow immediately after the lunch break.
