ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs. I'm glad you're back with us. There are seven speakers from the Chamber. They're all gonna keep it brief and concise. I call Mr De Love.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is becoming increasingly digital, whether it concerns the number of households with broadband access or the number of companies with a website. More and more elderly people are also active online and use a smartphone or tablet. This digitisation offers unprecedented opportunities for communication between citizens, businesses and governments. It saves everyone a lot of time and money. After all, an e-mail, text or app is faster than a postcard. It can be read anywhere in the world at any time of the day. WhatsApp, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, the Netherlands communicates, even at Christmas. The doormat was at my house then some army than the year before. My inbox, on the other hand, was fuller. The consequences of this also occur with PostNL. On the one hand, last December there was a record of several days when more than one million packages were delivered per day, on the other hand, many tens of millions fewer letters and postcards were sent. This development is there. Progress is of all times, as is the fear of progress, whether it be robotisation or racing pigeons. Pigeons have become a hobby. There is only one man left in the Netherlands who sometimes sends a telegram. The fax is located next to the Commodore 64 in the digital cemetery. So let us stop fighting backguards and anticipate the further digitisation of the Netherlands. Most of the measures proposed by the Minister in this bill have already been advocated by the VVD. It is therefore no surprise that we support it. It is realistic to have fewer post offices and fewer mailboxes. For the future, the VVD sees many more possibilities to adapt the postal service, as suggested earlier by the introduction of the slow stamp, or the snowgull seal. Now you pay the same rate for every item in the Netherlands and each item is delivered within 24 hours. Not all mail has to arrive within 24 hours. The VVD therefore advocates the introduction of that cheaper stamp for a delivery time of three days, for example, but we can further fill in the exact period. If PostNL is allowed to take longer and therefore the delivery can fit better into the delivery process, the delivery will also be cheaper. So you get that cheaper stamp. In the business post Sandd and PostNL compete with pieces prices of sometimes between 15 and 30 cents. The consumer now pays 69 cents per stamp. There's other ways, and we can do better than that. So, Minister, let's take care of that. What's the mail delivery look like in ten years? The mail volumes are falling rapidly and will continue to do so. The VVD wants European and Dutch legislation to be able to respond quickly to these developments. We in the Chamber should not be surprised in the future when there are proposals to go back, for example, to four or perhaps three days of delivery. I do not think that we should be concerned or surprised if, in future, the mail in parts of the Netherlands is no longer delivered at home or on the yard, but that you should pick up your mail from a mailbox next to the supermarket. What we should not be surprised about is that, in future, the UPD may be cut up so that there are different operators with different requirements per region, tailor-made for the area in question. Finally, we should not be surprised if the parcel deliverer also carries a letter, because the volumes of letters have fallen so much that full integration with package networks has become a real solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u3	The CDA also recognises that the world is changing very quickly, including in this area. What I am surprised about is the promotion of this degradation policy by the VVD. It is not yet being encouraged that there is less concern or that people should go and get their own mail. I would like to ask the VVD a question of principle, perhaps very liberal: why is there another Postal Act in this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u4	I shall come back to that later in my speech, but I would like to take a small advance on it. The VVD is in favour of maintaining an affordable and accessible postal service in the Netherlands, also in a number of decades. But precisely in order to keep the postal service affordable and accessible, it must also be flexible. If we stick to today's infrastructures, to today's agreements, to today's rules, the only result is that it will be more expensive, that the stamp price will rise and that the post will become less affordable and less accessible. We must therefore be able to respond to current events.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u5	The stamp always gets more expensive. Many philatelists know that. The first stamp that was issued was one of one or one and a half cents. My question to the VVD is and remains: what would you like to regulate in the Postal Act? This is pure demolition policy. When I hear the whole list of Mr. Love, there's nothing left. I understand it somewhere, but we have created the Postal Act to guarantee and offer a basic provision, not just for the shareholder, but for society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u6	I would like to maintain a postal service that is also accessible for people with a smaller wallet and not only for the elite who will have to pay €2.50 to send a postcard to grandma. That is why I believe that we need to respond to the developments that are taking place because the Netherlands is becoming more digital.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u7	I think Mr. De Love is creating a contradiction here that doesn't necessarily have to be there. He himself indicates that the number of mail packages is increasing. He suggests that we consider whether the letters can be delivered at the same time. I think we should be open to such suggestions. But if it can also be done by the parcel delivery guy, doesn't that mean that it has to be much more expensive to deliver those letters?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u8	I have seen a number of amendments, including some of Mrs Schouten from the Christian Union, which are rather conservative and conservative. I would argue the opposite. To keep it affordable and accessible, you need to be flexible and be able to respond quickly to market developments. The VVD and the Christian Union want the same thing, but we see another route there. Maintaining what it was like and what it was like is absolutely no guarantee of a good postal service in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u9	My point was about costs, because that was the argument that Mr.De Love also suggested. He's not going into that. There are alternative funding options. If you are indeed reasoning from the interest of the shareholder, then that does not always have to be the most efficient. Does Mr De Liefde agree with me that we should look not only at the interests of shareholders but also at the interests of society, because this is a universal postal service? It is about the citizen, who must be at the heart of the matter, and not about that shareholder. Does Mr De Love agree with me and would he like to point out that we can't go to other earning models where the price of the stamp doesn't have to rise so much at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u10	A shareholder monkey is being put on my shoulders, while I never took the word "shareholder" in my mouth. I'm not here to reason for the shareholder. I have just argued that flexibility is necessary, precisely in order to keep it affordable and accessible, including for the people with a smaller wallet. I still owe Mrs Schouten an answer to the question of the integration of letter and parcel delivery. The situation wants that parcel mail to grow enormously, but there are six, seven and, according to some, even eight nationwide networks that compete with each other. The letters are in a monopoly at PostNL. I think it would be fine if we went to see if letters could also be delivered to the home by the parcel delivery companies. Why should that still have to be done by the monopolist? What I would like to point out is that there are many ways... I see that the SP is whispering something to the Christian Union. I'm curious about the question. I'm trying to give an answer here and I notice that...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u11	Was this your answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u12	Yeah, let's just leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u13	I'm sorry for my late arrival. I asked Mrs Schouten if she was actually interrupting the allocation of the UPD costs to all parties. I notice that something Mr. Love said is not true. He said that letters at PostNL would be in a monopoly. That's not true. As far as the offer of large volumes is concerned, letters are also distributed by Sandd. That's where I think the pain is. Doesn't Mr. De Love think it's a little unfair that ordinary consumers, like Mr. De Love and I might be, go through the UPD to pay heavily for that system, but not the larger providers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u14	It is wrong that there is no monopoly for the letter post. PostNL is monopolist for the letters that Mrs Gesthuizen and I put on the bus. There are no mailboxes on the street where you can put your letter in as a private or consumer other than PostNL. At least, I haven't seen them. However, Mrs Gesthuizen refers to business mail. That market has been liberalised, but not the consumer market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u15	Exactly. Hence my question. I find that rather unfair. As a consumer, therefore, you have nothing but the network offered by the universal service provider. So you're obligated to buy that stamp. I can't take my individual letter to a competitor. So I am stuck with this ever more expensive stamp, as Mrs Schouten rightly pointed out. I can't help myself. A small entrepreneur may only have ten letters. He doesn't sign a contract with Sandd either. Isn't it a little unfair to let small consumers take part in the payments, when the big boys, the bulk mail providers, no longer have to do so? They no longer have to pay for universal service.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u16	I have not been able to say this often in the past four and a half years, but I invite the Socialist Party to work with the VVD on the liberalisation of the consumer market so that consumers can choose between different competitors and not just put their letter in PostNL's bus. I'm sure the price will do a lot of good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u17	We're doing interruptions in two. I understand Mr. Love is done with his answer. Please continue with your text.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u18	Unfortunately, much of what I have now outlined cannot yet be achieved due to outdated European legislation and outdated agreements in the postal union. The Netherlands suffers from the inhibiting digital gap. For one of the most digital countries in Europe and the world, this means that the European legislative jacket is in any case quite crunchy. The VVD wants more space for customization and for different speeds in Europe. I call on the Minister to work on this in the European Union and to produce results during the Dutch Presidency. Let a modernised postal regulation be one of the results of the forthcoming EU presidency of the Netherlands. The aim of the universal postal service is an affordable and accessible postal service. I already indicated that in one of my interruptions. I don't think there's any party in this house that's gonna fight that. So the question is not whether, but how to keep the mail affordable and accessible. Affordable means for the VVD that people should be able to post a letter at a reasonable price. Grandma should be able to send a ticket to her granddaughter for her birthday, and vice versa. If we don't change the Postal Act now and change the flexibility out of it, as the Christian Union and the PvdA seem to be doing, we'll let the whole infrastructure largely go as it is. If the drop continues, I estimate that the price of a stamp in a few years could just go towards the €2. Then the postcard becomes a luxury product. The VVD doesn't want that. If we want to keep the postcard affordable, PostNL must be able to organise the collection and delivery of the mail more efficiently. This means a smaller number of mailboxes in smarter places and a smaller number of post offices in smarter places. As I said before, the amount of mail falls annually by 8% to 12%, and then you do not want to keep an expensive and inefficient network in your legs. Not only should we be able to pay for the postcard, but we should also be able to post it. The VVD expressly does not want it to be an entire company to post that letter or postcard, but that people will have to walk a little further, cycle or drive, which is accepted by the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u19	Does Mr. De Liefde take into account that shrinking areas, backward areas and rural areas often live old people of days and disabled people, people who are unable to travel for half an hour each time to pay €50, buy a stamp or post a ticket? How is Mr. Love going to solve that problem? Surely there must be a certain basic level of service?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u20	Absolutely true. In that respect, I fully agree with Mr Graus. That is why it is also good that the Minister indicated in the explanatory memorandum that PostNL should seriously engage in consultation with municipalities, elderly organisations and consumer organisations. There must be a willingness to see where you can serve people in smart places as well as possible. In one district it will be an old people's home and in the other a train station or a supermarket. It must be cleverly designed to take away as much of Mr Graus's concern as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u21	I'll come up with a very nice solution in a moment. I am counting on the support of Mr. De Love.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u22	You're making it exciting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u23	I can't promise anything in advance, but I'll listen very interestedly. Mr. Chairman. Accessibility is for the VVD flexibility. PostNL must therefore work in close consultation with municipalities and consumers. Can the Minister confirm that PostNL will take up and carry out the consultation with relevant organisations well? How will the Minister ensure that this process goes well? I would like to prevent the House from being forced by headlines or articles in regional or national newspapers to act by calling PostNL into order or correcting errors. It would be much nicer and more pleasant for everyone that this process is going right away. How is the Minister going to implement that? The amendment of the Postal Act also increases competition on the postal market. The obligation of PostNL's competitors to contribute to PostNL's losses on the UPD is deleted. The VVD is happy with that. The purpose of this law is that anyone in the future can continue to receive and send birthday cards, magazines, love letters and invoices. To achieve this, we give PostNL the space to reduce the costs of the UPD. Well, if it's the VVD's fault, there's something on the other side. PostNL must be open and transparent about the proceeds and costs of that UPD. We will look very critically at a new increase in the stamp price following the introduction of the law we are now discussing. The VVD asks the Minister and the ACM to do the same. Can the Minister indicate how he and the ACM will monitor the costs that PostNL incurs for the UPD? Is the Minister prepared to say that he will maintain close contact with the ACM on the effectiveness of the ACM's monitoring tools and that he will not only come up with legislation in response to complaints and incidents, but will also act proactively if signs arise? Can the Minister indicate how the stamp price in the Netherlands compares to the prices in the countries around us? It is my impression that in many European countries, except Belgium, it is a lot cheaper to post a letter. I'm curious to hear how that's possible. Mr. Chairman. The amendment of the Postal Act preserves both affordability and accessibility for the future as far as we are concerned. The VVD is not afraid of change, as long as we implement it in a smart way. It should not be remembered that if a party had called a hundred years ago on the declining market share of the carrier pigeon, the tractor tug or the postiljon, we would still have had to deal with the same legislation. Then you could still use a heavily subsidised tractor boat from Amsterdam to Haarlem, while the cars and trains were buzzing past you. That is something we must avoid.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u24	Mr De Liefde may have overlooked it, but the proposal contains something that is not in line with the VVD's ideas, namely that the sending of PostNL's judicial documents will go back to the government. So: more government and less market. That seems to me to be contrary to what the VVD always calls out. How does the VVD feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u25	I appreciate Mr De Rouwe's keenness in addressing matters arising from the coalition agreement. Mr De Rouwe has well guessed that this has not been brought in by the VVD. However, we stand for our signature. One of the agreements in the government agreement is that more jobs are created in the government's lower wage scales. This is one of the ways in which the cabinet implements that agreement in the government agreement. Our signature's still under there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u26	I understand. I don't want to touch that either. It does give rise to the assumption that PostNL itself does not have those jobs, but I do not think that is right. However, let us not enter into this debate now. I have one question to ask about this point. Is moving those jobs that we didn't hear about Mr. Love, but we now understand this with closed scholarships? In other words, does Mr De Love set conditions for the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u27	If I have read the pieces correctly, it is about 80 jobs that are transferred from Valid Express to the government. The cabinet has said that as many of these people as possible who cannot get another post within PostNL will be taken to posts in the government. I assume this happens with closed scholarships. Perhaps Mr De Rouwe can use his first term to validate that with the Minister; I have the impression that the Minister has listened carefully to this interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u28	Mr. Chairman. The PVV, alongside Mrs Gesthuizen of the SP, fought against the further liberalisation of the postal market. However, we have never been able to get a majority in favour of this, so we have to work from the point of view of the situation we are in. We have never wanted what is happening now, but it is a given. From there, we have to work best for a second. Postman is a very honorable profession. We are therefore right in front of the postmen. They're hard workers, good-laughter people, whoever you used to ask for directions to. Unfortunately, that is not always the case anymore.You often have to make an effort to understand them nowadays, but fortunately the authentic postmen still exist. Since 2002, the PVV has opposed the liberalisation of the postal market. We predicted that customer friendliness and service levels would run backwards. I remember the interruption debate with Mr Elias of the VVD, who said with a head as red as a beet that I was wrong and that the stamp would be cheaper. That was, by the way, the only advantage of liberalisation that the VVD could call. I predicted then that the stamp would be more expensive. The stamp indeed became more expensive a few months later. It was then for the umpteenth time 1-0 for the member Graus of the PVV. This legislation is yet another proof of our equality. However, we do recognise the need for some measures, and Mr De Love has also spoken about this because digitisation is increasing cumulatively. Of course, digitisation has grown at the expense of the old-fashioned postal service; we are well aware of that. However, we believe that there should be a certain basic level of service for the elderly and the needy, especially in rural areas and/or villages. That's why we came up with something unique, which I'll show you in a minute. It is a solution that allows the level of service to remain there when ATMs and mailboxes disappear. Anyway, they will disappear, even in spite of the support of Mr.De Love. Older people and disabled people should never suffer. I have a few questions. PostNL, a company on which we, as a Party for Freedom, are very proud, already has a contract of employment for all postal service providers. Normally you would say: good example does follow well. However, we have a hard head in it. That is why we shall be voting in favour of Amendment No 2. 16 (34024) by Mr Gesthuizen. This amendment regulates that 80% of postal delivery workers work in a postal transport company on the basis of a contract of employment. We would prefer it to be 100%, but this is second best. PostNL has already done it. This is always better than nothing. That is why we will support this amendment. The stamp price has increased from €0.44 to €0.69. PostNL has indicated that a further increase in the stamp price is not excluded. The PVV wants to know from the minister where the border lies for him. How much can the stamp increase in price? I also ask a question about a letter from FNV Bondgenoten who has reached us, as well as, of course, the Minister. This letter is about working conditions in the postal market. As I said, we see the work of the postman as an honourable profession. We would like to clarify the situation of postmen. They deserve to get paid in the event of illness and to get holiday money and access to social security. However, one of the larger mail delivery agencies outside PostNL seems to be mainly driven by a so-called contract of assignment. I would like to make it clear to the people who are listening to this debate and who do not know exactly what such a contract of contract means. The Temporary Decree stated that 80% of postal service providers should receive a contract of employment. We didn't make it. Postmen would be offered a choice as to whether they could obtain such a contract of employment or a contract of employment. Is it true, I ask the Minister, that one of the larger mail delivery agencies outside PostNL actively sends mail distributors to a contract of assignment without having a choice? Those messages reach us through the FNV. Can the Minister respond to that? What is the Minister going to do to achieve the objective set out in the Temporary Decree on postal delivery, apart from Mrs Gesthuizen's amendment, which hopefully will be achieved? Like I said, we've come up with something and even designed it. That's what the PVV does. They always say: the PVV does not come up with solutions. We do, but we don't get the media, we don't get the people. Even now, the PVV has come up with something unique. It's about a mobile post office. I have a picture of it, too. This mobile post office can be built entirely in national hands. For example, VDL can build the chassis and the structure. That company can also build the ATM for the postmobile I'm about to show you. So anything can happen in Dutch hands. That is also good for the economy, as I say to the Minister for Economic Affairs who is here. This postmobile can go around on fixed days and times in the sparsely populated areas, just like the SRV used to. In particular, the elderly and the disabled can be provided with their PIN and postal needs. It may also be possible for the postmobile to pass old people's homes which are just outside the boat and do not have a mailbox. Moreover, this moving office can be used for the benefit of the hundreds of care centres where post office functions are going to disappear or have disappeared due to liberalisation. As I have just said, it is possible to build that mobile in national hands. I have a picture of the post-mobile with an ATM. All this can be realized. If you'll allow me, Mr. President, I'd like to give this drawing to the Minister. I'll also show the drawing to the MPs. Within the sector, there are people who are sympathetic to this. I ask the Minister to intercede in it, together with the managers in the shrinking areas and rural areas and with PostNL, that this postmobile be introduced. Drivers will also have to be involved. Only a few of these postmobiles are needed to cover the whole of the Netherlands. I'll give the color version of the drawing to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u29	Thank you. We are happy to receive this from you. The messenger will hand it over to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u31	Mr. Chairman. I'm replacing spokesperson Agnes Mulder. Many know that it is very involved in the extraction of gas in Groningen. There is a technical briefing there tonight, which she had to give priority to. I hope that Mr Graus will also hand over his royalties to Mr Atsma, because he already made a proposal in 2007 for an SRV car in the rural area, which could provide medicines and act as an ATM. I've heard that idea a lot. It appeals to me very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u32	Mr Atsma did not bring the plan as I do now. I've had something similar designed, signed. So it's not just bleat, bleat, bleat and little wool, no: here, bam!, The Commission's That's what we do. That's the PVV. Mr. Atsma may have shouted a lot, but he didn't deliver. Normally we should not talk about people who are not there, but if Mr Atsma is listening at home I give him my regards. What we did never invented, drew and designed anyone. It has taken some time, but we are happy to do so for the elderly and the disabled in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u33	I warmly welcome Mr Graus' idea. It's actually convenient to speak more deeply about the Post Act since I got fewer cards for my last birthdays. If something like this happens, of course you start to doubt yourself, but when I went through the pieces this week at the request of Agnes Mulder, luckily it became true that it is not always up to the person. In my opinion, Mr De Love also rightly outlined that, thanks to all the modern resources we have, we communicate much more often than before, albeit in a very different way. Nevertheless, we still have a Postal Act. My interruption during Mr De Love's speech made it clear that the Postal Act is important for the CDA. The abbreviation UPD, which is widely used today for universal postal services, is one of them. The CDA considers it important that this basic provision should continue to exist with the characteristic that it is affordable, accessible and available to society. We have had a lot of debates on this. In a fairly recent past, about six or seven years ago, this was a very sensitive subject, I remember. Today we get a lot less letters about that. So society is changing along with it. This law is therefore not cast into concrete, nor is society itself. Legislation must be in line with society. Because of a very sharp decline, particularly in the consumer sector, we are obliged to revise the Postal Act once in a while, as we are doing today. The CDA is prepared to do so, but not at any cost. I'm telling you the truth. On the basis of the concrete proposals put forward by the cabinet, I will look at a number of issues, starting with the purpose of the law. What's the target? When reading the pieces, I strongly get the feeling that the purpose of the law is changing, shifting, drifting away from the original goal. Was the law ever meant to guarantee a good postal service in the Netherlands, reading the pieces more and more gives me the feeling that it is not so much about good facilities in the Netherlands as about a profitable management of PostNL in this case. It seems to be about the financial position. It's always about affordability and the question of whether we can still get it all out. That is why I shall begin by asking the first fundamental question to the cabinet, to this minister. Why is the UPD's term "profitable business" taken as a starting point instead of accessibility, affordability and availability? I now turn to the first proposal to reduce the number of post offices and mailboxes. Let me say first of all that we understand a reduction in the number of letterboxes and post offices in the Netherlands. There's no use in mailboxes that stay empty when you have to drive by to empty them. This leads to unnecessary costs that society will ultimately have to bear. That's not always necessary. However, the CDA is in favour of thinking very carefully about the places and the way in which they are being reduced. For example, it is necessary to ensure that those post offices remain central. They must also be accessible to disabled people and people with disabilities in particular, easily and without obstacles. Does the Minister share this? Does he also see a role or a task for the government to keep a finger on the wrist when reducing the number of post offices? Does he also share our view that the opinions that we ask consumer organisations or organisations that promote disabled people should also be taken seriously and that this should be looked at very closely? We have tabled an amendment on this. PostNL already has quite a bit of experience looking at support. If you go to fewer mailboxes, you should also look at the support base in the communities. Make sure you actively inform people in that area about the fact that a mailbox might close. I ask the Minister to encourage such initiatives, in this case at PostNL, because they have the task of doing so. I think it's a good thing when there's a lot of resistance. If many people state that they value the fact that the mail supply or mailbox remains, there should be admissibility to keep it. I understand that you should not keep a mini-referendum everywhere, because that would go too far, but if it is clear that there is a lot of resistance, which is a sign for me that there is a lot of appreciation for a provision, PostNL should be encouraged to reconsider a decision. Does the Minister share that interest? Is he willing to record this with PostNL and inform the Chamber about it? In the small centres, in the region and in rural areas, we are not surprised, services are very important. Mr Graus has just proposed that services should be offered in a different way. We stress that small post offices or "service points" in the regions must be maintained. Maybe they're not always profitable there, but they're really needed there. I would also ask you not to touch the mailboxes in the countryside. I see in the proposals that they are being spared, but I also see that the threshold for changing things in the future is being reduced. That's what the CDA is worried about. Rural areas must maintain the level of provision. We must continue to discuss this. If it doesn't come out there sometimes, it doesn't mean that we have to stop all the amenities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u34	The PVV also does not want all these facilities to go away, but we have tried to stop it and it is going to happen. That does not stop Mr De Rouwe and I. We will not be able to do that; let us be very clear about that. There is no majority here in the Chamber either. That is why I am asking Mr De Rouwe: please support the PVV proposal! I know Mr. Atsma once suggested an SRV car with an ATM, but this is something else, a mobile post office with a PIN function. That is quite different from what Mr Atsma proposed, but put aside party politics and simply support this proposal! We're not gonna stop it. It's okay for a second, I share that with everyone, but it's better than nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u35	It is good that Mr Graus has now taken note of the plans of the CDA in 2007. The direction of thought is the same. Ultimately, it is about whether something is possible and affordable. I am not indifferent to this proposal. That would also be consistent, because Mr Atsma has rather made a similar proposal, perhaps with other colours or another design. I don't want to touch that. He used the SRV car because he said they're left, so use them. Anyway, let's wait and see. Now it's just a drawing and I'm also curious about the receipt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u36	The words that Mr De Rouwe said earlier sound very good if you do not think much further. I heard him say that mailboxes and post offices may disappear, but not in the outskirts and not in the provinces. Mr De Rouwe is actually drawing a very sharp line, which puts his words in a very different light. Does he consider the people in the outskirts more important than the people who perhaps live in a slightly larger village, larger municipality or larger city, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u37	The CDA thinks they're equally important. That is why they must be able to keep the supply. In the Randstad, for example, it is easier to maintain facilities, because the facilities are closer to each other and because there are many more people living there. I know from my own experience that there are times when the last provision goes away in shrinking regions, but we all know that. The number may justify it, but not the viability. Mr. Love says it a little sharper than I just did. I indicated that the cabinet isn't getting the number of mailboxes right now. I have just given a warning: I see that the thresholds are being lowered in order to reconsider the number of mailboxes in the future. My group is very clear about this: then you really have to be careful, because at some point you will reach a limit, where this is felt most quickly, especially in sparsely populated areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u38	500 meters in the Randstad is also 500 meters in Friesland, Limburg or Overijssel, and 1,000 meters as well. There's no difference. Perhaps Mr De Rouwe speaks from his electoral interest or from other CDAs towards 18 March, but why does Mr De Rouwe make other meters in the Randstad than in the province?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u39	I didn't mention the word "meter." I can also refer to another criterion, for example a community of 5,000 inhabitants. They're not getting there yet. Because Mr.De Love likes to have it a little sharper, I say: be careful with that; do not cut it more sharply, because then you really come to the viability.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u40	A few weeks ago, we had a debate on vacancy. Then Mr De Rouwe said: it is only in the countryside, not in the cities. The CDA recently also advocated nuclear power stations in certain places in the country. When we went through the question, Mr Buma, the leader of the CDA group, did not know where these nuclear power stations would be. I ask this because the CDA keeps saying: we have to save the regions. But, as the Lord of Love rightly points out, that is at the expense of other areas. So what choices does the CDA make? Mr De Rouwe says that there may be fewer mail delivery points and mailboxes, but he does not want to say where. Where can they cut and where can they not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u41	Mr Verhoeven may have missed part of my speech because he came in later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u42	That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u43	Then he just didn't listen very well. That can happen. It is not contradicted, so let's leave it at that. I have also indicated that the CDA is receptive to reducing the number of mailboxes. We see that reality. We do not say that we should not. However, we say that by lowering the thresholds it will be easier, more tempting, in an AMvB, to go deeper into the universal postal services in the future. That is what we are now giving as a warning: beware, for example, of the shrinking regions. No more and no less.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u44	Indeed, that is what Mr De Rouwe is saying for the second time; I listened very carefully to him. That is why I am now asking my question for the second time. If the CDA is okay with cutting the number of mailboxes but not in the shrinking areas, does that mean that according to the CDA this can be done fine in the cities? In other words: we don't really care what happens in the city, because there is no vacancy there, and there are no problems with fewer mailboxes; just solve the problems in rural areas. Is this the approach of the CDA, also towards 18 March, in which Mr De Rouwe will play an important role?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u45	That's right. Mr De Rouwe will be running for office in Friesland on 18 March. He's a list-taker there. I didn't want to advertise that, but I'm being challenged a little bit now. I'm gonna drop the slogan. Again, I'm asked the same thing. We understand the reduction in the number of mailboxes and postal services, but in view of the instruments that this Parliament is asked to do even easier and faster in the future, we say that this can also reach its limit. Let me make a little bridge right there. The second proposal is to evaluate periodically: once every three years or more frequently if necessary. It is good to stand still regularly and see what happens and what changes. Evaluating once every three years is fine, but that also says: if necessary in between. It is suggested that this is subject to conditions. My party considers it important that you evaluate regularly, but you also need to monitor continuity and keep the peace, even in a dynamic market like the postal market. My question to the Minister is whether we will not lose it if we allow evaluations in between. Every three years, it's a quick follow-up. In the third proposal, the cabinet intends to take the flexibility of universal postal services out of the law and lay down the turnout time, the distribution of the number of establishments and the number of mailboxes in a much lighter General Measure of Management. Since December, half of the Netherlands knows what an AMvB is, because this subject suddenly came up in another debate. It is a rather light variant, in which the Minister can change something in this case. The law is harder to change. Parliament puts things in a law that it considers to be very important and that cannot be easily touched. This is going a little too fast for us. In this case, we are willing to give PostNL the space to have fewer mailboxes and service points, but we must be careful not to rush through unnecessarily. That is why we have tabled an amendment to submit the AMvB to Parliament. Another subject of discussion is the question of costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u46	On the last point, we share the concern of the CDA Group about Parliament's involvement. The CDA tabled an amendment together with the PvdA in 2007 which was also adopted in order to keep these types of components in the law. They argued at the time that it was a matter of public service, that the Court should have something to say about it and that it was therefore best protected by law. We have tabled an amendment to put it back. Does Mr De Rouwe agree that this would be the best way to ensure that Parliament has a say in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u47	On this subject, there are actually three tastes: either you put it almost in concrete molded into the law, or you make room for an urgent procedure through an AMvB or you choose the middle way through a veil, where Parliament really has more to say. We choose the latter, because you have to be smart about this changing postal market. The proposal of the cabinet, the VVD and the PvdA to do so at AMvB goes too far. It's too precious for us. However, our doubts will have been noticed, and for this reason we have tabled an amendment to the House so that it retains its involvement in the normal and own way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u48	The CDA Group's own argument in 2007 was that this was about public services, that they were public tasks. Then you have to make a clear statement in the law about the lower limit. It's there. I do not see why we should suddenly deviate from that argument. I have not heard that argument from Mr De Rouwe either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u49	No, it's still about public service and the value we attach to it. We are not doing anything about it, and we are not going to devalue it either. What we are open to is the argument that we see coming back, that there may sometimes be a need to adapt it. We then have confidence that Parliament will be involved and that it will not be given a copy. This Parliament must first be able to agree to this. We think that is enough. Mrs Schouten refers to the year 2007. It's been a while. That was the time of the coalition with the PvdA, in which we sought this good compromise. However, I see that I am failing the Christian Union with this. It was also a compromise between Mrs Vos of the PvdA and Mrs Van Vroonhoven of the CDA. We are now in the coalition with the Christian Union and the PvdA. We believe that there should be room for change, but not as quickly as the cabinet would like.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u50	I would like to correct Mr De Rouwe. I thought I'd taste some old coalition love again when he talked about defending his proposal for the hardened front. In addition, new CDA electoral rhetoric was added, namely that the PvdA would also say that it can be done in an accelerated AMvB. It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u51	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u52	We have already announced this in the note on the report. We attach great importance to the Chamber's input and we await the debate with the Minister on the route he considers most sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u53	Yes, Mrs. Vos is right about that. I should have just separated the PvdA/VVD cabinet from the group, because the group has indeed tabled an amendment. The PvdA ministers have agreed, but I understand what Mrs Vos means and she is right. The net cost problem is also reflected in Articles 30 and 31, with all postal operators still having to pay the net cost of maintaining the basic provision. The cabinet is proposing to delete this, and the CDA is not so enthusiastic about it. I look very carefully at Mrs Vos; I am curious to see what she says, but that will come later. We think it is logical that you distribute any net costs for maintaining the basic provision. We also welcome the fact that all parties involved and able to benefit from this are themselves forced to keep costs low. If you take out these articles, we are afraid that there will be only one taste, namely even fewer mailboxes and even fewer mail points or minipost offices. Apparently, that's the only flavor. I think Mrs Schouten has tabled an amendment on this point. We support that. The fifth proposal is that the government will take over again from the market. I have already mentioned this in the debate on the interruption with Mr De Love. The CDA doesn't think it's wise for the government to get bigger now. Our slogan is also: more society, less government. We therefore see it as an artificial compromise between the coalition and, of course, every coalition has the right to take over the tasks that the government is now taking over from the companies that are currently taking care of the state's postal services. We have no known complaints that this is bad or too expensive. My question to the Minister is therefore: what is the situation? Does the Minister share our view that, if you do, this should be cost-neutral? Are you sure this is wise? And is this going to cover more in the future? Will the blue tax envelopes be delivered by the public administration? I think this falls into the category of tractor barge and pigeon, which Mr.De Love called a bit crazy. A task that is now simply carried out properly and neatly by the market should not be tricked back to the government. We believe that this is doomed to failure. It leads to additional cost increases and it does not correspond to the cabinet's own desire to create a smaller and more effective government. I'm curious about the state of play. Is this gonna turn around? My final comment concerns the stamp price. With the adoption of this legislative amendment, PostNL is right to be able to operate more flexibly in order to reduce costs, but we do not really see in the proposals what is the exact opposite. I think that's a little weird. It looks like a blank check that way. Everyone wants to keep the stamp price low. In my opinion, there is ample insight and support in Parliament to make it easier for the service provider in this case, but there is no contradiction to what this does with the costs. Can the Minister say a little more about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u54	Mr. Chairman. Let me start with a historical review. In 1850, the Postal Act decided that a post office would be set up in every municipality and that mailboxes would be available in the villages and cities. That's a long time ago and we're still in 2015. We know a network of post offices and mailboxes. We are now, of course, living in a very different time. The traditional post is under pressure, with an annual volume drop of about 10%. The emergence of new communication via e-mail, internet and smartphone means that we send fewer letters and cards than ten, fifteen years ago. On the other hand, the need to send packages is increasing. Much has also changed in the meantime as a result of the liberalisation of the postal market. And yet there is still a Postal Act. Postal delivery is and remains a public interest, the Christian Union also believes. In choosing liberalisation, Parliament has repeatedly attached importance to ensuring postal delivery and mail delivery as essential public services. This is an important factor for the Christian Union in the assessment of this law today. Does every Dutchman, for example, still have a mailbox and post office nearby? Will older people and people with disabilities still be able to use the universal postal service? And is the number of points in the village cores and small, sparsely populated areas still maintained, also in terms of livingability? Following a parliamentary inquiry in the First Chamber, the Kuiper Committee issued an opinion on the independence and privatisation of public services. The postal market was also examined at that time. One of the recommendations was to close the democratic gap in political discussions on the performance of public tasks. The committee's report advises Parliament to maintain control over parliamentary decision-making after independence or privatisation. Although there is a privatised company in the postal market, we are still talking about the performance of a public task. The report also states that public interests are more than the interests of the citizen in his role as an individual customer. Our impression is that the Minister has worked too enthusiastically with this law on the basis of cost-effective business practices. The Council of State rightly points out that there would be no need for a Postal Act at all if profitable business operations were to be the determining criterion. Postal delivery and postal delivery are concerned with maintaining essential public services. This applies not only to the consumer's perspective, but also to the citizen's perspective. Does the Minister agree with me? The Council of State considers that essential features and essential guarantees of access at law level should be laid down. Why does the Minister choose to abandon control further by removing substantive requirements for the provision of services from the law and putting them into an AMvB? So that is not just a question we have, because the Council of State also points out. We would like to hear the Minister's opinion on this. The Court must also ask itself how it controls the performance of the public postal service. With the introduction of an AMvB, the Chamber would deliberately distance itself from this control. It is striking that the current legal standards were enshrined in the law by the Chamber in 2007. I have already pointed out: that was the Van Vroonhoven-Kok/Crone amendment, from the CDA and the PvdA. The reasoning then was to involve Parliament as co-legislator in the main decisions on the universal service of further liberalisation of the postal market. The Christian Union still considers that argument to be legitimate. That is why we do not think it is appropriate to give up control now. I have an amendment to part No. 10 in order to remove this AMvB from the new law and thus to regulate it again at law level. The new AMvB also proposes a significant reduction in the number of post offices and mailboxes. We understand that keeping uneconomic establishments open has implications for the universal service provider, PostNL. On the other hand, mail delivery is not just about return. The Christian Union believes that every citizen in the Netherlands should keep a mailbox and post office at a reasonable distance. This also applies to small villages and sparsely populated regions. It is important for the viability of the villages that the public service is maintained. The Minister reports that the reduction in the number of post offices and mailboxes will take place evenly across all regions. That does not reassure us, especially for the sparsely populated regions. As far as we are concerned, it is therefore important to lay it down legally. In July 2014, the situation was that 98.9% of the inhabitants of sparsely populated areas had a postal establishment within a range of 5 kilometres. The law lays down an 85% spread requirement for these areas. This means that the number of postal establishments in sparsely populated regions can indeed decrease significantly. The Christian Union finds this undesirable. We therefore want to raise this lower limit. I have the amendment to item No. 11 to increase the diversification requirement for sparsely populated areas to 90%. We are specifically concerned with postal points in shops, such as the supermarket or the drugstore. It is not that a postpoint should suddenly be opened in the middle of the polder. They should, above all, be in line with all the facilities already available in such areas. This is also in line with the needs of the inhabitants of these small cores. I understand that the postal points that are already available all have a full range, while the Postal Regulations still distinguish between service points with a full range and service points with a virtually full range. Why is that distinction still laid down by law? Is the description of a full range still up to date? In addition, I notice that more and more package points are being opened. This is also in line with the demand, because for that there is still a whole market, only those points are not covered by the UPD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u55	If the number of mailbox points is increased, but it is not accompanied by a pin function, for example, people in shrinking areas and sparsely populated areas will not be helped. That's why I came up with the solution of a pin and post function. Does Mrs Schouten share the view that this might be much better than just increasing the number of mailbox points?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u56	I can't tell if it's much better. I think we can do it in addition to each other. As far as we are concerned, it is important to join the facilities already in the cores and to ensure that there is at least a postal point. If that is somehow impossible, then we have to look at other possibilities. In any case, we want to ensure that the lower limit is clear for those areas and that PostNL, together with the municipalities, the interest groups or the residents who are there, looks at what is the best solution. I think we should find a good solution together. This may also be a solution proposed by the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u57	What we hear a lot from the elderly and disabled in shrinking areas and rural areas is that if they have to pay €50 to the hairdresser or to give €5 to a kid who is going to get milk, they often have to travel half an hour before that. So we shouldn't just pin ourselves on the post office. We certainly shouldn't forget the pin function.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u58	The coincidence is that I am also a member of the Finance Committee. We have also had a lot of discussion about the disappearance of ATMs from sparsely populated areas. I have to give credit to the CDA for that too, because it has been very active at that point. I hear the PVV is, too. In this respect, it may be a similar discussion, but that makes it no less relevant. I was still at the package points. I notice that there are more and more package points. That is also in line with the question. In that sense, it makes sense. However, the parcel items are not covered by the UPD. This is, of course, the choice of the market player, PostNL, but I do wonder why postal points cannot go much further together with the new parcel points. That's what Mr. Love was referring to. I think it is also possible to print the price of the stamp by looking at all kinds of other forms of delivery. Then I'm not thinking of picking up your letter, but of having letters delivered at the same time as packages. In this way, the UPD network also remains well-connected with the needs of customers. Why hasn't the Minister put more pressure on this, for example, on PostNL and asked to look at such forms? A number of points do not necessarily need to be closed, but smarter delivery methods can be considered. I would like to hear the Minister's response on this point. It is also important that vulnerable groups, such as the elderly and people with disabilities, do not suffer from this law. Article 18a obliges PostNL to seek advice from stakeholders of vulnerable users. These are mainly national organisations. Does this article also mean that advice should be sought from local or regional stakeholders. I am thinking, for example, of the municipal administration or the small entrepreneurs, the shopkeepers, who use the UPD. I'd like to get a reaction to this. I'll get to the net cost. When the UPD can no longer be carried out in a cost-effective manner, the net costs of the postal services concerned are transferred to the current law. In the new bill, the Minister deletes this system. The explanation does not reassure me. If net costs are incurred because profitable business operations are no longer possible, the level of service provision will be looked at again. In other words, the network of mailboxes and post offices may be further undressed. You can also look at the way in which you divide the costs of something that may not be profitable in essence, but a public service. The removal of this article from the law would therefore make it impossible to do so, which would increase the pressure on services. The costs must then be kept low. Where, according to the Minister, is the lower limit for the indispensable public infrastructure? Does the Minister share our view that return should not be placed above the essential public service? How does he look at the deletion of this article?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u59	The problem of net costs was one of the main reasons for this legislative proposal. In particular, because Sandd's competitive position vis-à-vis PostNL was under enormous pressure from all kinds of claims floating over the market and the imminent bankruptcy of such a company with a subsequent loss of approximately 15,500 jobs. How does the Christian Union weigh that risk compared to its desire to spread the cost across all market players? In practice, this means placing PostNL's account with Sandd.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u60	If Sandd goes bankrupt because the net costs are passed on, I think there's something wrong with the earning model. If that's the reason, something's not going well. I think it is so fair that, when we find that we do so together, because we have the Postal Act that this is a public service, the companies operating in that market ensure that the costs are shared. I think that's fair. You might as well argue that another company will pay the full cost, for which they will suffer a competitive disadvantage. The argument can go both ways. My point is more important. What is at the forefront is that we must guarantee public services. The Minister's reasoning is reversed, because he says the return is important. That's subordinate to us. First of all, we want public services to be secured and all people to be delivered, even if they live in a more sparsely populated area. In that case, the VVD says: come and get the mail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u61	Mrs Schouten is well aware that if, through legal procedures, a claim hangs over a market or a company for a few years, whatever company, it has an effect on the company's financial viability, liquidity, cash flow and debt. The problem was created by the law as it is now. The VVD is in favour of solving that problem. I first heard Mrs Schouten's words as'recognition', 'go in time' and'see how we can handle it', but with the Christian Union's amendment we are going back in time. The Christian Union wants to keep it the way it is. That does not rhyme with the words she said earlier in her speech, and that disappoints me a little.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u62	Mr. Love must then make a better distinction in what I say. I said, let's look at smarter ways of combining parcel and mail delivery. Those are shapes that you can think about very well. I see now that the VVD chooses to say to a company like Sandd, or to other parties that want to join the market, that the costs are removed, while our citizens pay the price by getting less delivery and less service points. Maybe there'll be only one or two delivery days a week. The VVD has argued this before. We don't choose to do that. For us, public service means that you can count on it as a citizen. Where costs arise from this, all parties from the market should share them with each other. The Minister acknowledges in the written round that the price increase of stamps also increases the volume decrease by itself. It is precisely the deletion of these articles that leaves only price increases and the deterioration of services as options. I was already talking about this in the interrupting debate with Mr De Love. That could put the UPD in a further negative spiral. Does the Minister recognize that? It is precisely in order to prevent this that I have the amendment to item No. 12 to ensure that net costs return to the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u63	Mr. Chairman. Why write another love letter if you can do it via WhatsApp? An abomination for the romantics among us, but the reality is that dating is done digitally and ended. That perfumed letter with a ribbon, which Mrs Gesthuizen and I sometimes fantasize about, is an exception. It is also an increasingly expensive exception, because it requires an infrastructure of letterboxes, stamp sellers, sorting centers and delivery centers to send that one love letter with that ribbon around it. But there is much more than digitalization that affects the debate we are having today. There are also secrets, things you can't digitize. You can't imagine it, but the other day I read a dystopic book about the Internet that's broken or becoming less reliable. Until we are sure that we really do not need physical infrastructure, we simply need physical infrastructure to send letters and packages. And that's why we're sticking to the UPD as a basic facility. This physical infrastructure is an important backup for vulnerable virtual infrastructures, but it will become priceless if we do nothing about it now. In this sense, the PvdA supports the idea behind the law that the Minister is now presenting. But the increase in the stamp price cannot go on indefinitely. At some point, a lot of people are gonna get hurt. I also mention the printing industry, because my mother worked in it for years. In order to reach a political judgement on the affordability of the UPD and its impact on its size and rates, it is first necessary to understand the size and cost of the UPD. I just told you how necessary that UPD is. And colleagues from the Christian Union and the CDA have already indicated that it is also important for the region and for older people to continue to exist. We still do not have an understanding of this size and cost. There is still no answer to the PvdA Group's question in the report on the total cost of the UPD. The reason for this is that it is business-confidential data which cannot be disclosed. At the same time, PostNL, the executive, is asking the politicians to be allowed to reduce the UPD and raise those stamp rates. If the size of the costs of the UPD is not clear, the Court cannot check such requests for reasonableness. The Bureau could be kept confidential about the costs of the UPD. How does the Minister feel about that? How real is the objection of business confidentiality and competitive sensitivity? After all, PostNL is the only one who performs the UPD in the Netherlands. Perhaps a comparison of the UPD costs with other countries is very useful. There is another point: cross-subsidisation. In the market there is mistrust about how the proceeds of the UPD are used. Are cross-subsidisation in price sensitive non-UPD segments depressing competitors from the market? Can the Minister guarantee that this is not contrary to Article 12 of the European Postal Directive? It states that charges for each of the services included in the universal service must be cost-oriented. This is not the case if the Minister admits that cross-subsidisation can take place within the UPD and only the sum of UPD tariffs is based on costs. Surely the Postal Directive will not be complied with? The PvdA Group was therefore surprised to read that the cross-subsidisation between UPD and non-UPD services is controlled by the ACM only under Article 24 of the Competition Act, the article on the abuse of dominant positions. It is well known that Article 24 is hardly being used. It takes a lot of evidence to do that, up to once a year. So it seems that there is no supervision of cross-subsidisation at all. Can the Minister answer that? Many colleagues have already spoken about substitution. The PvdA wants to warn that an ever higher stamp price can lead to faster substitution to digital communications and thus an even faster shrinkage of the postal market. PostNL seems to be shooting in its own foot. Has the Minister tried that risk in the talks with PostNL? A faster increase in the stamp price can lead to an enormous reduction in the number of postal items offered. The same risk is seen by the PvdA in the austerity that makes this bill possible. The downward adjustment of the UPD may lead to accelerated substitution. I've been walking around for a few days with a ticket for Mrs. Voortman and her child, because I keep not running into a mailbox. That's probably because of me and my chickeniness, but this will happen more often as there are fewer mailboxes. The ability to adjust the UPD downwards via an AMvB can lead to a downward spiral and even faster replacement. That is why we have tabled an amendment on a weighted front for the AMvB. Formally, there is, of course, involvement from the Chamber at an AMvB. It's already been changed here. In practice, however, this is rather difficult. The nice thing about a weighted front hanging is that, if the AMvB is good, it can just go on as an AMvB. The Minister will, of course, probe that at the Chamber and the parties. If the Chamber wishes to discuss this, the procedure will run. The AMvB must then be included in a bill. Actually, the chance is fifty-fifty whether it goes fast or slow. The reinforced front suspension is, as it were, an emergency brake that the Chamber can use.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u64	The numbers mentioned in the AMvB for the spreading requirements are identical to the law. The number of mailboxes is different. We could have seen that in the law. In other words, why is it necessary to put this in an AMvB? That will have a reason, namely to be able to adapt it all more easily. If Mrs. Vos is afraid of that, wouldn't it be better if she got it right in the law at once?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u65	I understand the Minister's concern and I understand that he wants to be able to adapt the UPD very quickly, because developments are moving so fast. You set this up in a law, you know how long it takes. There are all incredibly reasonable people here, from left to right. They understand that the UPD needs to be affordable and enforceable, and that we need to look at how we can ensure that it remains accessible. I find a fast route reasonable in itself. The compromise I'm trying to find, and so is the CDA, is to set an emergency brake. That's exactly what we're looking at here. That's what we're looking at. That's what we're looking at. That's what we're looking at. That's what
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u66	Mrs Vos is now actually taking part in the Minister's reasoning. She says: I can see that the UPD must be able to be adapted quickly. I believe that we are here as a Chamber to decide whether or not we want the UPD to be amended. That can indeed be done by means of a weighted front, but that already preludes on adjustment. We can now say that we want a basic level of service. I think Mrs. Vos has been doing that all along. If we get that right in the law, isn't that the norm? We're supposed to keep it together, aren't we? And if that's what it costs, shouldn't we just make sure that the costs are transferred to other parties if that's what it takes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u67	Yes. I can imagine that there will be a lot of other ideas about this basic service. Mrs Schouten has already mentioned this and I am going to ask about it in a moment. It may be that it has to be fast, but at the same time I have the next question to the Minister. The UPD provider, PostNL, is also working on scenarios. As a good company it thinks two or three years ahead. I therefore have the same question as Mrs Schouten, namely whether this haste is indeed necessary. I can't wait to see how the Minister will react to that. I think everyone in this Chamber is interested in watching what happens to the UPD. I am therefore very curious to see how the Minister responds to the various proposals that meet the wishes of the Chamber to remain involved in the UPD. I shall then speak about Articles 30 and 31. Despite all these austerities, the UPD could be making a loss, as was almost the case in 2011. It has already been recalled that the possibility of increasing tariffs is not unlimited. If we have to ask for €2 for a stamp, I think that's the beginning of the end of everything. The deletion of Articles 30 and 31 means that the net loss of the UPD can no longer be reversed. Does the Minister throw away an old shoe without having a new one? It's clear that no one wants to see the UPD suddenly disappear by nibbling off the UPD. Is it conceivable that no one would want to run the UPD, not even a company like Sandd? Is it true that Article 15 of the Postwet is not waterproof at this point, especially if PostNL left the Netherlands, which could happen just like that? As I said at the beginning, we need this infrastructure. Especially when you delete Articles 30 and 31, you have to make sure you have new shoes. You can think of turning over through the other postal company. I haven't heard anyone who attaches much importance to this, because we all pay for it on the left or right. It does not matter whether it is paid out of public funds. You can also think of alternative scenarios. Mrs Schouten, for example, pointed to the possibility of using the infrastructure created for parcel delivery. I remember the Minister saying something about this last year. Should we not provide an alternative scenario for the implementation of the UPD in case it is no longer paid or loss is made? Will the Minister make such scenarios and, if so, how long will that take? Before I get to another big point, I have some smaller points first. The impact of the bill has not yet been incorporated into the new tariff arrangement. When does that happen? PostNL must announce the transfer of a mailbox six months in advance. That period seems very long, but the response period for consumer organisations, four weeks, is again very short. Can't that be balanced? I believe that this can be done and I have therefore tabled an amendment which brings these deadlines a little closer together. I would also like to look at the state of play regarding the proposed legislation on significant market power. When can we expect market analysis? I now come to PostNL's limited liability in registered letters. I have received reports that lawyers have offered registered delivery documents at PostNL and that the court has not received those documents. However, the financial importance of this procedure was about one tonne! You cannot hold PostNL liable for this, as the Postwet states that PostNL cannot be held liable for errors in the provision of services. That's a little weird. Article 29 of the Postal Act and Article 11 of the Postal Decree provide that the maximum liability for registered letters is only €50 and that is really no longer of this time. Is the Minister prepared to investigate a more real amount and then adjust it? Mr. Chairman. I now come to my final point. We fought very hard in the Chamber for a fair playing field for all postal companies. There's only two big ones left now. We have supported the bill of significant market power, and we have also done our best to ensure fair cost allocation. I've also asked a lot of questions about cross-subsidisation. This market is very labour intensive and then it is important that fair play is played with the conditions of employment. And what did we see? Last summer Sandd withdrew from the agreement made in the Chamber that at least 80% of postal service providers should have a normal contract of employment. This is not about architects who can work late, but about people who do fairly simple work. At the time, the Chamber made it very clear that the vast majority of employees must have a contract of employment. Sandd has concluded a collective agreement with a very small union that violates the agreements made. Sandd is therefore a cheater, because an ovo is 40% cheaper than a contract of employment. We often have this discussion, because the difference between azzp'er and an employee is in many cases so great. So we are now allowing Sandd to cheat on working conditions. Sandd can work much cheaper than PostNL, which has 100% working conditions. Also in Vreeman's report it says that an ovo does not belong to this market at all. Vreeman says that it means that these companies must be able to earn enough. That is why I asked whether there was a proper examination of whether there were any predatory prices. In this case, an unfair playing field was created by the exception that Sandd granted himself in spite of the agreements and against the wishes of a majority of the Chamber. This has to end very quickly. It is a result of a loophole in the law and the PvdA therefore wants the government to close that loophole in the law as soon as possible. That didn't happen. In his reply, Minister Kamp writes that he is considering adapting the AMvB, but he does not want the Chamber to do so until December 2015. Then he'll report if he's actually gonna do that. So Sandd will still have a year and a half, if I count the room, the opportunity to cheat on terms of employment. That wasn't part of the deal. That is also completely against our ideas about a fair playing field. The PvdA Group asks the Minister to equalise this unequal playing field as quickly as possible by removing that possibility in the AMvB. Mrs Gesthuizen will be submitting an own-initiative paper on this subject on my behalf. We attach importance to ensuring that it is done as quickly as possible. We ask the Minister to work with us on a fair playing field in the postal market, including in terms of working conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u68	Mr. Chairman. I now also have a digital board for me; also the speaker chair has now been digitized. I was a guest today at a meeting of the web stores. The meeting again highlighted the opportunities for entrepreneurship and activity in the field of the Internet and digitalisation. These opportunities are expressed in many services, applications and forms of convenience that all people in the Netherlands can use, provided they are connected to the Internet. In the Netherlands there are now more than in most other countries in the world. Email, online shopping and digital payment are examples of internet usage that we have known for a long time. We all know that this is true of me at least since I was in the House of Representatives and spoke about the post of 'post', which leads to fewer physical letters. Almost all of the previous speakers have mentioned the ways in which this is expressed; they have given wonderful examples of this. That's right. However, I have heard fewer colleagues say that many more packages are being delivered. Mrs Schouten said that, but I have not heard from others. Here again, therefore, the disadvantages outweigh the benefits. This is one of the important discussions on the Postal Act. To conclude with the point that Mrs Vos concluded: I remember that I, as a Member of Parliament, had a debate on the postal market for the first time. At that time, we had a debate on the postal market almost every month. This was, among other things, about the conditions of employment and the way in which the postal operators were treated. This eventually led to a competition over the back of the mail delivery companies. The postal companies tried to be as competitive as possible through working conditions. This led to the ovo, the contract of employment, which replaced the permanent employment relationship. There was a lot of discussion about this in the House of Representatives and in the meantime it was still. At some point the VVD and D66 have asked the Minister or the State Secretary to contact a mediator who should find a solution to the problem. That mediator became Mr. Vreeman. He felt that there should be an ingrowth model that would ensure that 80% of postal service providers would be in permanent service. I have to admit that I have always remained optimistic about how that would go. I was optimistic that a solution had been found that would lead to a better situation in the liberalised but shrinking postal market. As a result of these constantly decreasing volumes, many competitors fell. Eventually there are only two: PostNL and Sandd. We can now see that the agreements made are being implemented in practice or are not being fully implemented. This leads to a disadvantage for the postal servicemen, who are forced to work in an ovo construction rather than through permanent employment. I'm very curious how the Minister intends to deal with that. He wants to give room until the end of 2015. I am also very curious to see what Mrs Vos is going to do. The PvdA holds the key at this point. From the SP and from the PVV we know the layout. Their line is: let us just put 80% hard into the law. However, I have not yet heard from Mrs Vos. Its view will have to be seen immediately when the Minister gives an unsatisfactory answer to her question. For D66 there are several sides to this issue. One aspect is Sandd's competitive position vis-à-vis PostNL. Sandd must, of course, somehow be able to act as a competitor with opportunities. With regard to D66, a certain flexible form of work is not necessarily bad. Flexibilisation is something that belongs to this time of year. However, if it becomes competition on the basis of working conditions, resulting in bogus structures and suppression of workers, D66 will look at them with teeth, just like in the past. D66 will also look at the proposals from the Chamber. However, I await the Minister's response first. I believe that the Minister should stand for the right balance between competition and good working conditions. I'm moving on to the law now. All the above is not in the law, but can be regulated in the law again, I say with emphasis. The remaining five minutes I have requested for my contribution, I would like to devote to the four points in the current Postal Act. It's a pretty clear law. Four cases are being dealt with. The first is to adapt the requirements to the universal postal service (UPD) to current standards. According to this standard, fewer physical points, fewer letterboxes and larger distances are allowed. D66 can understand that very well. I would like to ask the Minister whether, on the other hand, in the areas that are always mentioned by all parties, the so-called sensitive areas at the borders of the country, we are going to invest heavily in good connections via the Internet. For a lot of people, that is an alternative that might be more future-proof than sticking to the mailbox. I say to the CDA as well as to other parties that there are also vulnerable people in cities. It seems that it is now becoming a kind of competition about who best helps the region and the thinnest populated areas. However, I would like to point out to these parties that there are also vulnerable people in cities who have to deal with a reduction in the number of mailboxes and may therefore be in trouble. Let us not close our eyes to this, and let us not tell tales about it. That's what you do when you say you're standing in front of the mailboxes in the region, without saying where you're gonna delete the mailboxes. That will then be in the city, I say to Mr De Rouwe, and there are also people in the city who can be poor on their feet or needy or whatever.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u69	I think my mobile is going to get a lot of support, because it can also be used in cities in the event of an emergency. Postmobiles do not only adhere to rural areas and shrinking areas. So I see a lot of support for the idea of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u70	In fact, at the end of my speech, I wanted to say a few words about the post-mobile, but in view of the time I might be better able to do so in response to an interruption. There is still a dispute about who is the original creator of the postal mobile plan; there is still no clarity about that, but let us give both parties the benefit of the doubt, and let us just christen the 'PVV-CDA postmobile'. I don't think it's such a crazy idea at all. D66 released a note in 2011 entitled Krimp on its own. In this note we presented the analysis that the distance between facilities in less densely populated areas is increasing. Therefore, the bridging to these facilities will have to be properly regulated, for example by public transport or other links. This could also be done via the post-mobile. So I do not think it is such a crazy idea of Mr Graus. He is always a bit of butter with the fish: you must support my proposals. But I'm gonna leave it in the middle, because I don't think a drawing alone is enough to sign my signature. But I don't think it's crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u71	Do you want Mr. Graus to color him in?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u72	That is what Mr Graus has already started. He has already semi-colored one copy of the drawing of the postmobile, but not entirely within the lines. So that's gonna have to go over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u73	Mr Verhoeven also participates in those Tupperware conversations on Twitter and so on. Atsma belongs to the SRV. The drawing of the postmobile and even the invention of the name were all done by my wife. The name "postmobile" has never been mentioned anywhere in the Acts. PostNL has never had one either. So let us be very clear about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u74	That's noted. Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u75	Obviously. The first point is therefore a reduction in the number of physical contact points, postal points. The second point concerns a more flexible adaptation of the SPD and its evaluation. In this case, D66 is confident that the best way to regulate is through an AMvB, which allows for a more flexible and faster response to changes. D66 looks with interest and attention at Mrs Schouten's proposal to ensure this extra by means of a suspension procedure in the Chamber. We are not concerned that the Minister might sneak down the number of posts to bully the people. Rather, we think that the minister looks very real and businesslike at the postal market and tries to make the UPD profitable, so that it remains enforceable by the only party that wants and can execute it: PostNL. That brings me to the final point: the net cost regulation. Colleagues have mentioned this before. I think it is a reasonable exchange of obligations if you tell one party that it no longer has to pay and tells the other party that it will have to meet lower requirements in order to make it profitable. I think that's the Minister's reasoning. Moreover, Sandd, the only other competitor, is not on the consumer market at all. Sandd therefore takes the view that a certain cost calculation is being made on the consumer market and that they must pay accordingly. I can imagine that they are gritting their teeth, especially now that, because of the limited disclosure of the cost calculation, it is not quite clear how it is achieved. I have not even mentioned the cross-subsidies on which Mrs Mei Li Vos of the PvdA started. I'm glad she did. All in all, D66 largely agrees with the Minister's proposals. This change in law seems mainly motivated by realism. D66 has asked the Minister for Economic Affairs to adapt and modernise a number of laws which, due to the rapid change in society due to digitalisation, advanced technology and internationalisation. I am now prepared to look positively at the work of this minister and believe that this is some kind of modernisation of a law. That's why I think it's a good idea to make this move. The guarantees that Members have are born of a genuine concern, in my view, about too rapid modernisation. I agree with that and follow the proposals and the Minister's response to them with great anticipation. I have 1:22 minutes left, but I will finish with this, because I know that it is not good for Members of Parliament to talk their time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u76	Mr. Chairman. In my view, two important issues are on the agenda today: the legislative amendment proposed by the Cabinet, of course, and the conditions of employment in the postal market. Several colleagues have already mentioned them. I shall start with the first, because the Chamber has formally and neatly placed the amendment of the Postal Act on the agenda. I have a number of comments that are critical, but should be made in the context of a generally positive attitude towards legislative changes. I am certainly not always in agreement with the D66 group when it comes to the postal market, but in this case I can agree with Mr Verhoeven that this is a necessary modernisation, given the changes in society. There is no coincidence, so the fact that in the cabinet proposals I noticed exactly the same points as in the amendments raised by Mrs Schouten and Mrs Mulder, to whom I address myself through Mr De Rouwe of the CDA, will be because I have been a spokesperson in this area for a long time, just like many colleagues. In fact, I fully agree with all the proposals made by the Christian Union and the CDA in this area. Perhaps the Minister can still convince me of the need to change future changes to, for example, the number of mailboxes or other issues related to universal service through an AMvB or a ministerial arrangement. I don't understand. The Chamber might as well exercise some discipline by rushing through the Chamber a proposal from the Minister following a call from the postal market that it should be dealt with as a matter of urgency. However, I am not reassured if we just leave it at an AMvB and believe it further. I do, however, get the feeling that this will give us as a Chamber an important tool for influencing this policy. I'd like to hear the Minister on that. I am also charmed by Mrs Vos's proposal in Amendment No 2. 14 to do so at least with a heavy front. That would be a sort of second-best option, but I feel most strongly about keeping the powers in my own hands and giving the Chamber the full opportunity to debate this. Like Mrs Schouten, who puts this into her amendment, I wonder why it is not possible to maintain the cost-sharing system of the UPD. I don't really understand that. Does this have anything to do with transparency? As I have also asked Mr De Love: does the cabinet's proposal not mean that only the smaller postal operators, i.e. the consumers and the smaller companies that do not send so much mail, are the ones who pay for the cost of maintaining the UPD? The larger postal operators are already the only ones who have really benefited from liberalisation, because they have saved money by reducing the costs they pay for sending a letter or postal item. With this change, they are ultimately cheaper, while we as consumers and citizens are allowed to bear the burden of this. As far as the amendments are concerned, I also have a great deal of sympathy for Mrs Vos's amendment in respect of item No. 15. It wants to reduce from six months to four months the time limit that the UPD provider has for PostNL in this case to make an announcement and seek advice from consumer organisations. It's also come to my attention that four months would be enough. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he is determined to stick to those six months and, if so, what arguments he has for that. Finally, I come to the conditions of employment in the postal market. Mrs Vos of the Labour Party and myself have drawn up an own-initiative paper entitled 'Initiative labour agreements postal market'. This has everything to do with the fact that we have been working since 2007, so from the moment I was just a Member of Parliament, on the question of how we are getting a basis for working conditions in the postal market. How do we ensure that there is no competition between different types of companies? One company does everything with ovo's (contracts) and is therefore much cheaper. The other company, however, is attached to a company-cao. It is used to doing it in a certain way and has always worked that way. It has always had to work this way and it wants to continue to work this way, because every postman means value to the company. Every postman or postman, as they used to be, knows his trade and bears responsibility for it. Such a company entrusts people's mail items to them, because they're a little more expensive, but they're worth the money. How do we ensure that there is no unfair competition between these two companies? And how do we ensure that there is no competition between two different people working in the labour market? You can't explain to a mailman that he's losing his job because he's outnumbered, when there are plenty of mail delivery guys recruited to work on ovo-based? That's impossible, isn't it? I cannot imagine that this minister would approve of that. I have also tabled an amendment to ensure that 80% of contracts of employment are included in the law. I say to Mr Graus that it may be 100%, but I am realistic in this and I would like to seek some consensus. Let us say that both companies and trade unions could be reasonably well off by 80%. That amendment is quite a piece of work. I would appreciate it if the Minister said: I do not need that whole amendment, because with that initiative paper from Mrs Gesthuizen and Mrs Vos in my back pocket, I am happy to come to the Chamber before 1 March, let us say, with a detailed plan. In doing so, I am going to ensure that this unfair competition on working conditions which has been in place for many years on the postal market and which the Chamber has said must end within a certain period of time. This is why the own-initiative paper is once again on this subject. I apologize to the messengers that I didn't just hand her over.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u77	You needed a long introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u78	That is correct, Mr President, but that brings me directly to the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u79	Very good. We have received your Labour Agreement and postal market initiative paper. We'll take care of the spread. The Minister will also receive a copy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u80	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the spokesmen for their input. It might be good to take a look at the history of the proposal before us: the Amendment of the Postal Act 2009 to modernise and relax universal postal services (modernisation UPD). The legislative proposal involves four things: a change in the requirements for postal establishments and mailboxes, the introduction of a periodic evaluation of the UPD, the deletion of the compensation system, the spokesmen call the net cost regulation... and the deletion of court letters as a mandatory part of the UPD. I shall deal with these points, as well as the other points raised by the spokesmen. There are two reasons why we have become intensively involved in the UPD. The first one has been designated by Mr.De Love. Mr Verhoeven also mentioned this. There is a spectacular drop in the volume of universal postal services. As Mr De Liefde said, a lot of people now have a smartphone, almost three quarters of the Dutch. 95% of Dutch people are connected to a broadband Internet connection. As a result, there is a huge shift from communication by letter to communication via the Internet. This leads PostNL to have an obligation to do something, but then sees that the volume decreases every year. Then we are not talking about a few percent, but about 8%, 9%. Higher percentages have also been mentioned. At present, it is estimated that there is a decline in volume every year of around 8%, 9%. PostNL has a large organisation to ensure that it can fulfil the UPD obligation imposed on him, but that volume is falling rapidly. This means that the price has to rise enormously or that costs have to go down. This led to substantial losses on the universal postal service at PostNL. I don't like that. It says in the law that the universal postal service is dedicated to PostNL and that the company may make up to 10% profit on turnover. But it doesn't make any profit at all. The suffering was even loss. It is strange to impose an obligation on an ordinary private company and then place it in a situation where the loss is suffering. That's not good. I wanted to do something about that. I wanted to make sure that the company can carry out the obligation imposed on him in a normal way. This means that it does not suffer a loss, but that it can make a profit on it that is not higher than permitted by law. That was my endeavor. That was the first reason. The second reason was that the law meant that any loss on that universal postal service had to be shared by all the companies that were eligible for it. In practice, these are only two companies. One is PostNL, which we talked about. The other is the company Sandd. We are happy with Sandd because it creates competition in the business market. If you look over the entire mail volume of letters and small mail items, you have about 14% UPD. 86% belong to the business market. The UPD does PostNL alone, but in the business market, Sandd is the only one that ensures competition for PostNL. As a result of this competition, the quality of supply can improve and there is a negative pressure on the price. This is in the interest of the customers of those products. So I have an interest in keeping Sandd, who is active in the business postal market. But as a result of the loss that the great PostNL suffered on the UPD, a claim came to Sandd. Sandd got into trouble because it's a normal company that has to invest heavily in order to process large amounts of mail in a highly automated, robotized way. So there's a lot of weird money in there. It is negative for Sandd's financing possibilities if, in addition to the investments Sandd has to make for his own business operations, there is also a kind of claim to the company in the sense of: if the big PostNL suffers loss, you have to pay with it. So the loss the UPD caused PostNL was bad for PostNL and Sandd. As far as I am concerned, the solution is obvious. If the public authorities consider that a company should do something "UPD" which may generate up to 10% profit, then the company should also be able to implement that UPD in such a way that it no longer suffers a loss, but also does not make more profit than the 10% mentioned above. We built a system for that. The stamp price has been increased, the costs have been reduced and there is strong supervision of the ACM on the company. I will come back to that later. Let's take a look at the stamp price first. Mr De Liefde said that only in Belgium the stamp is more expensive and that the stamp is cheaper in the rest of Europe. That image doesn't quite add up. In Germany, the price is lower, namely 60 cents. In France the price is also lower, namely also at 60 cents. In the Netherlands the price is 69 cents. In Belgium a stamp costs 77 cents, so a lot more than here in the Netherlands. In the United Kingdom the price of a stamp is 79 cents and in Denmark, the nearest country outside the circle around us, the stamp costs €1,21. The Netherlands is a little below the middle of prices in the countries around us. The amount per stamp is therefore not remarkably high. The Chamber has already decided to reduce the costs for PostNL. The attention to PostNL is quite right, by the way. Apart from the fact that the company has been required, it is also one of the big employers of the Netherlands. A total of about 31,000 people are on the payroll. Because of the important service the company performs, because of its employment and because of all other non-UPD services, it is a company that deserves our positive attention. We had already given the company the opportunity to cancel the mail delivery on Monday and thus bring the mail delivery back from six to five days a week. In this proposal we add some extras to that and give additional opportunities to reduce costs. We are trying to do this in a very responsible way, and we are seeing that the reasonableness of the great, far-reaching and very specified obligations that we have imposed on the company is beginning to decline. You can tell a company that it has to have so many mailboxes and post offices, but very few mailboxes are used, for example. You can oblige the company to do so and then the company will incur those costs, but those costs must ultimately be borne by those who pay the stamps. If that doesn't make sense, we shouldn't. So we have looked very critically at what we should change at PostNL in terms of obligations. I have just mentioned these, i.e. changes to the post offices and mailboxes and the deletion of court letters as a mandatory part of the UPD. I should like to comment briefly on both of these matters. Post offices are now subject to three requirements. One is that there must be at least 2,000 post offices. The second and third requirements imply a certain spread. We propose that the first requirement be dropped, i.e. that the requirement of the absolute number of 2,000 post offices be abolished. However, the spreading requirements remain unchanged. Currently, 95% of all inhabitants of the Netherlands must have a post office within 5 kilometres. Secondly, 85% of all people living outside the cores with more than 5,000 inhabitants must have a post office within 5 kilometres. So as far as the post office is concerned, nothing changes with regard to the spreading requirements. Much has been said, and now again, about mailboxes in sparsely populated areas, i.e. outside the larger villages and cities. However, nothing changes there. There's the rule right now that there should be a mailbox for everyone within 2,500 meters, and it will remain that way. In the cores of more than 5,000 inhabitants there is the problem that we have the obligation to have a mailbox everywhere within 500 metres. However, a large number of mailboxes hardly appear to be used. We come up with a loosening proposal to make it 1,000 meters. I think this is a very responsible, limited change. However, the changes taken together in terms of postal establishments and mailboxes mean that the costs can be reduced. This also means that there will be less pressure on the stamp price to go up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u81	For all the proposals that have now been mentioned, I have tried to support them in the Chamber. I do not think that these proposals have been very questioned. I'm curious to see how it's passed on. The Minister's right to say he's not doing this for nothing. He has several reasons and one of them is the poor position of PostNL. That might fall through the lower limit or make a loss. Once again, I believe that the measures mentioned by the Minister are acceptable to us, too, but what are the results? Is that externally calculated, so that we can properly weigh what is reasonable and fair?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u82	Yes. I take it that, as a result of the measures we are taking now, there is no longer a loss on the UPD but a small profit, which is very much below 10%; say a profit in the order of a few percentage points. That's about the outcome. We need to be aware that we are going to keep a close eye on that. The ACM is a sharp supervisor. We have arranged that all the information the ACM needs in order to be able to view this properly must be provided by PostNL. We have given the ACM the opportunity to conduct research into that information, to make findings and to draw conclusions. We have also given the ACM the opportunity to intervene in advance if it thinks this is necessary. This is a scheme that will apply from 1 January 2014. So we have arranged very well that no jokes can be made at the cost level. I don't want to suggest that PostNL would want to do that, but if he wanted to do it, it's hardly possible given everything we've arranged in relation to the supervisor. If there is a factual monopoly somewhere, and that is what this part of the postal market is about, that supervisor looks very closely at what is going on. Returning to Mr De Rouwe's question: as a result of what we are going to do here, the loss situation turns into a positive situation. This means that the pressure is removed from the company PostNL and Sandd. This is therefore positive for the overall functioning of the postal market. I should like to make another point, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u83	A follow-up question from Mr De Rouwe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u84	Yeah, that's fine. I have one more follow-up question on this. My question was whether this was passed on. The Minister said: my estimate is that this leads to a plus. Has the ACM carried out or tested that throughput, or has it been investigated externally? How exactly does the Minister know that this actually leads to a plus from a minus?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u85	I do not know how Mr De Rouwe looks at it, but I already think the government is a reliable organisation. If anything needs to be sorted out, we'll just find out in an honest way. That is what we stand for as a ruler and that is what our employees stand for. Room's checking us out. If we figure something out or figure it out with each other, then it is already credible anyway. In addition, we have the ACM as supervisor. I think they're credible, too. So I do not think it is necessary to bring in another third to pass it on. In my capacity as the person responsible for this dossier, I say the following to Mr De Rouwe. There is a whole package of measures that we have previously decided on, and which we will decide on in second place this evening. If it were to be implemented according to the insights I have at the moment, it would result in a moderate profit, which would be very much below the ceiling laid down in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u86	The Minister is continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u87	Mr De Rouwe referred to a second point, as did Mrs Schouten and others. They said: the minister approaches it all businesswise, but he should look at the importance of the universal postal service and he should promote it. By ensuring that it can happen in a business-based manner, I am doing the most important thing I can do to keep the UPD up. I can make arrangements from all sides and I don't know what else, and I'm gonna determine and control everything. But if you impose an obligation on a company, I think it would be better to make sure that you attach such conditions that it can do so in a cost-effective way. If it can do this in a cost-effective way, it is the best guarantee for the continuity of the universal postal service for the future. So that's what I deliberately chose to do. I didn't do that because I like doing all kinds of business things. I have done so with the same intention as Mr De Rouwe, Mrs Schouten and others. They said: we think this is important for the Netherlands, especially for vulnerable people, who may not be so easily using all these Internet services. Moreover, if something happens to the Internet, something else must be available, as they said. They also said that some people who use the Internet want to use the mail from time to time, and for those people it must remain. I agree. What I am proposing here and what the Chamber decided earlier together with the Cabinet when we adjusted the arrangement is the best guarantee for the continuity of postal delivery. I'd really like to talk to the Chamber about the distances of the mailboxes and the post offices and all that stuff. But I would also like the Chamber to accept that the approach I choose is precisely to ensure continuity of services and thus to promote the general interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u88	In the end, of course, it is a political choice. Or we say: PostNL has to make that cost because we think it's important with each other and then we have to look for ways to accommodate PostNL. This can be done, for example, through the net costs; I would just like to mention them again. It may also be possible to allow smarter ways of working through the package points. Or we go the way we say: it needs to be more profitable, so we now choose to close down a number of establishments. Does the Minister recognise that it is ultimately a political choice that we make here with each other, that the minister chooses the return and that the citizen then pays the cost by fewer post offices and fewer mailboxes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u89	I think that with the obligation jointly imposed on PostNL by the legislator, the Chamber and the Government to carry out the UPD, the Chamber should also feel the obligation to enable PostNL to do so without loss. The Chamber, the legislator, has also made this clear by saying: it must be without loss and you can make a profit on it, but it must not exceed 10% of turnover. If it turns out that the obligation we have imposed on the company is loss-making, you have not made a fair deal with the company. It's not a real deal with that company. And then there's another company. That, I think, has nothing to do with it, because it is not in the individual letters and packages. It's only in the automated, large quantities that are read and distributed with robots. So it's a completely different company. That company is getting a slap in the face of the loss that another company has to make through us. I don't think that's a good way to deal with businesses. When you deal with companies in this way, you also do not represent the general interest, which is served by continuity. If you now make a fair arrangement and remove the causes of the loss by allowing a reasonable stamp price and reasonable cost control, I think you are defending the public interest. So I see it differently from Mrs Schouten's suggestion, but I do not think that our views on this point can be very far apart. I cannot imagine that Mrs Schouten would like to send for the loss of PostNL. I don't think she's trying to get Sandd into trouble by putting a claim over that company.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u90	First of all, I would like to address the Minister's first point. There are, of course, a lot of companies, of which we as a government say: they carry out such an important task; that has to be done. Think, for example, of the O.V., of the NS. Sometimes there's a situation where there's money to go with it. I am not in favour of this happening now, but it is ultimately a political choice whether we think it should be maintained or not. Of course, I think it is good to look at what can and cannot be done in a realistic way. I can see that PostNL, for example, makes a lot of profit on the packages. I'm happy about that, but then I think: go see how you can make smarter combinations there, how you can combine things, and make sure that you can also maintain the UPD. That is a choice that Parliament and the Minister can make. However, that is not being done now. Is the Minister prepared to see if we can reduce costs and maintain the UPD as a whole?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u91	The answer to that question is yes. I will explain this in a moment. Mrs Schouten said that it happens more often that companies are saddled with a universal service, but that is not the case. No direct comparison with NS can be made either. NS is 100% owned by the government. That's just a state company. It's 100% government property. PostNL and KPN used to be 100% of the government. We deliberately put it on the market. We have turned this into normal companies, which have to compete on the market. Mrs Schouten spoke of parcel mail. PostNL has a share of about 40%. There is very strong competition in the market for those packages. In that situation, they must stand and maintain their market share. In business mail, the 86% I was just talking about in the context of mail and small packages, there is a very strong competition thanks to the company Sandd. That's a very well-organized company, completely automated, that PostNL is competing with. As far as the UPD is concerned, because of all the requirements and the costs that had to be incurred, there was a loss there. There is a special situation with regard to PostNL and the universal postal service. We have imposed an obligation on a private company. That, for my part, also gives us an obligation to enable that company to carry out that obligation in a reasonable manner. Mrs Schouten is talking about making smart combinations to reduce costs. I'm very much in favour of that. It is absolutely essential to do so. That's what's being done. People are under pressure to do that. I have already said that we are looking very critically at the costs that are being incurred. We are looking at the necessity and the level of these costs and the possibilities for reducing them. That is why we have included a periodic review in this bill. From now on, there is frequent evaluation, as this is laid down in the law. We are doing this because there are so many developments in that market that we must constantly follow them. I think that Mrs Schouten's point, which is to make combinations and see how to reduce costs, is also an interesting point for the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u92	I'd like to put it a little simpler, otherwise it's all gonna be so technical. Consumers and the smaller mail forwarders, so not as big a guy as the magazines, all use the UPD. So they also pay the stamp price. The larger post forwarders can offer their mail at PostNL, at Sandd and sometimes even at a local or regional delivery company. They can thus choose between competing parties. They have benefited greatly from the liberalisation of the postal market. Why is it fair in the Minister's view to say that the consumer must pay for the services himself, the only one who uses the UPD and cannot choose?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u93	It is fair because the groups mentioned by Mrs Gesthuizen also bear their own costs. The business mail doesn't look at the address on the envelope. Business mail providers are required to have a code number on the envelope. These codes are read by an automated system and then this system will sort and bring the mail together. Then the mail will be delivered. A whole system has been set up, both by PostNL and Sandd, to do so at the lowest possible cost. The remaining costs will be charged, plus a profit premium, to the customers of that service. Exactly the same thing happens at the UPD. However, within the UPD we have no competition, because there is no other company in the Netherlands that can deliver any letter. For example, a machine cannot read my bad handwriting and a person has to look at it to read what it says. Then something good must be done with it. As a rule, letters are delivered by piece. For this you need a very different system than the system used for business mail. That system is so complex and demanding that there are no other parties who want to do so. We must even impose an obligation on a company to do so. The moment you do that, in the absence of competition, you need something else to keep costs low. We have all kinds of provisions in the law and powers at the ACM. This combination of legal provisions, provisions in the AMvB in the Postal Regulation and the possibilities offered by the ACM means that the costs for the UPD are as low as possible and that the users of the UPD do not pay more than necessary. The UPD users and the users in the business market all pay their own costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u94	These costs are not as low as possible. I do not want to go back to the past, Mr President, but then we all paid for the system, both the big suppliers, people who wanted to send a lot of mail, and small businesses, as consumers like the minister and me. Now the big boys can choose and they are cheap out. In fact, the Minister admits it. The bottom line is that the small senders are paying for the costs. I don't think that's fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u95	It would be an insult to Mrs Gesthuizen if I were to repeat my answer. The wholesaler market is a completely different market. The blue envelopes of the Tax Administration, the letters sent by the health insurance companies and the large numbers of letters delivered by companies, all bearing a code number that can be read automatically, constitute a very different offer than the individual offer, sometimes handwritten, that comes from PostNL. We have organised competition for the business market. There is now competition between two companies and they keep each other sharp and the price low. The remaining costs are paid by the users. The other group of users also pays the costs. We have indeed, by what we have all laid down in the law and in the AMvB and by the possibilities we have given to the ACM, organised that the costs are not higher than necessary. This also shows that the stamp price in the Netherlands is not high compared to other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u96	I just want to verify that I have heard the Minister correctly. Ms Schouten suggested the creation of money flows between PostNL's package activities and the UPD tasks. The Minister replied that he wanted to talk to PostNL about this. Is that right? Can the Minister recall that we in the Chamber have spoken quite extensively about the concerns that exist about cross-subsidisation? How do the positive words relate to these concerns about net costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u97	The difference is that Mr. Love is now saying that I would have talked about money flows, but that is not true. Mrs Schouten pointed out that the market is developing. One market is collapsing and the other one is growing. People are going to an address with a letter and people are going to an address with a package. It would be logical to consider whether combinations are possible there. I don't think that's something I can do right now. In the terms and conditions for PostNL, we have all laid it down very specifically in the way I have just indicated. If we lay down in the law that we are going to periodically evaluate how the market is developing and what the effects of this development should be on the rules we lay down together, then I think Mrs Schouten's comment is relevant to involve in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u98	Then I am pleased and reassured, because I, too, indicated in my speech that we should be open to new forms of integration of parcel and letter mail. There must be no Chinese walls. I am pleased that the Minister has indicated that there will be no money flows between the UPD and PostNL parcel services.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u99	No, that's how I felt. I thought I was speaking in the spirit of Mr. Love. I have no intention of organising dubious cross-subsidisation. It is true that cross-subsidisation within the UPD is not a dirty word. The point is that within the UPD you look at how to organize it all as efficiently as possible and how to keep prices reasonable for the customers. We have created opportunities to cross-subsidise within the UPD, but that too is followed very precisely by the ACM. So much for the requirements for post offices and mailboxes. I also talked about the periodic evaluation of the UPD and the net cost regulation, which I think is very sensible to end now. Mrs. Schouten said you shouldn't throw away old shoes before you get new ones, but we got those new shoes. I've been working for a year or two to make sure that the situation with loss at PostNL on the UPD and a claim that hung over Sandd, correct. I want to create a normal business situation there. This proposal concludes that. That's how we got the new shoes. At the time when this bill is adopted by the Second and First Chambers, the new shoes are there and the old ones can be thrown away at the same time. This is also in the interests of competition in the market. There has been talk of the court letters. You can think about it any way you want. The cabinet has decided to invest. This applies to the security of ministries, to the catering of ministries and also to the delivery of letters. The reasoning behind this is that we want everyone working in all these ministries to be taken seriously and included. It is not the case that certain parts of the work are separated, that one is part of this company and the other is part of that company and that those who remain are the real people in the ministry who form that ministry together. No, it's been said it has to be one whole. There have been agreements on this in the coalition agreement which I firmly implement. As regards the concerns about government letters and court letters sent through a company, we have said that this is part of the cabinet's ambition; we are going to do so ourselves in the future. It's already running a trial in the west of the country, part of it in the Randstad. This is also happening in the east of the country, although, of course, there are very few court letters to be delivered there because of the nature of the people. That pilot is running and we'll see how that goes. Once that goes well, this will then be turned off further. This means that the people who work at that company, who is a daughter of PostNL, will get into public service as much as possible and will do so. You can't say: if you do this now with court letters, you might do the same with the blue letters. That's different. The blue letters just get on the bus, while these letters are handed over in person. So they're not tossed on the bus. The doorbell rings and tries to hand over the letter to the addressee. If he is not there, he is handed over to another person, who is then asked to give the letter to the addressee. So extra care is needed to deliver those letters. That's why this is being treated separately. It's not a precedent either. It is part of what I have just described and what we are now implementing in accordance with the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u100	So it increases the sense of group of people working in the government. I'm just gonna leave it in the middle of whether it's gonna work this way and whether it's not stigmatizing for other people who also work for the government, maybe from the market. I think that could well go hand in hand in this country. We are not having that discussion here, because I realize that this has just been a part and probably a concession to the PvdA. My question was whether this happens to closed stock exchanges. This is being taken out now. This Minister is concerned about PostNL's profitability. I don't know if this happened by PostNL, but it must have been somewhere near a company. If the government is going to do this now, a little bit imposed by the coalition agreement, will that happen cost-neutrally?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u101	The company that does this is Valid Express. That's a daughter of PostNL. If we used security, catering or this element, I don't have the idea that all of this is money or cost-neutral. I don't know. I do know that a political agreement has been made to do this. Mr De Rouwe spoke a bit critically about the group feeling in such a ministry, but it played for the cabinet. We run large official organizations. Here in The Hague, we have large official organisations in which a whole group of people is faced with a particular task. We have chosen to treat this whole group in the same way as much as possible. I am not disgusting with concessions to the PvdA, but this is something that is carried out by the Cabinet and also by me with conviction. I cannot guarantee that this will be done on a budget-neutral basis. I don't know. I do know, of course, that we are trying to keep costs as low as possible. That's what we're trying to do. If it turns out it would cost more, that's no reason to deviate from this arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u102	The aim of this cabinet was also to achieve a smaller government and fewer officials. I just think it's contradictory. However, that discussion was settled when the coalition agreement was concluded. I respect that, too. Since we are now talking about this law and other rulers such as Mr Blok have referred to this law, in which this is regulated, I am curious about the costs. I would very much like to know if this happens cost-neutrally. Apparently there's a pilot going on. That's fine. Can the Minister promise that he will inform us in the future as to whether this can be done, or whether an account will arise from this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u103	I wouldn't want to do that myself. I told you, it's about catering, security, not those court letters. My colleague from Wonen and Rijksdienst represent that. If Mr De Rouwe has any requests for an understanding of costs, he will make it easier for us to contact the person in charge of that information. He wants to do this once in a while, given the long-standing experience of the CDA in the cabinet. I will inform him of this request so that he can prepare himself for it. It is perhaps good to say something now about a point that some spokesmen have strongly raised, namely the question of postal servicemen who may or may not have a contract of employment. I think Mrs Vos and Mrs Gesthuizen realize that this is not a subject that is included in this bill. This bill is about something else, but it is of course their right to raise this issue in this context. They do so with an initiative paper and they will not expect me to comment on it unread. I will study the note carefully and then respond to it. I will also talk to my colleague from Social Affairs about it. I remember from my time as Minister of Social Affairs that I felt responsible for this. I think that my successor feels that responsibility too, and that is why I will discuss with him the question of who is the best interlocutor to deal with the substance of this matter with the Chamber. I can say that the legislator, the First and Second Chambers and the Cabinet, have stated that we want 80% of the delivery staff to have a contract of employment. Mrs Gesthuizen and Mrs Vos are right about that, because that was indeed said when there was this unrest in the postal sector. Mr Vreeman's opinion was certainly a reason for setting that out in a regulation. However, we have also made it quite consciously clear in this regulation that collective agreements could derogate from this system. When we made that deal with each other, that was definitely said. We are used to always doing so, because the Netherlands is a country where the social partners are highly respected. If the social partners agree, we will be able to do so. In this case too, we have done so very consciously. That space was used in a way that PvdA and SP and possibly I don't like it either, because this wasn't our intention. However, we have created this possibility ourselves. That collective agreement was indeed not concluded by Sandd with the FNV or CNV. It's another union, but we can't say: we like the union, we like the other one a little less and we don't like it at all. That's not how the government works. We have said that if a collective agreement deviates from that agreement, then so be it. That is what happened in this case. The communication that comes out of Sandd's works council shows that this union can count on considerable support. That union has made an appointment with the employer which means that an employee can count on a wage increase of 3% to 6% for each year of his stay there. It has also been agreed that Sandd will aim for 50% agreements with a minimum of 25%, even though we had 80% in the scheme. The company agreed to this with that union, and I think we can only see that agreement as a fact at the moment. What am I going to do with this in the future? I am well aware that this was not the intention of the Chamber. The original appointment of the Chamber will be carried out in practice in a way that the spokesmen I have just mentioned will be critical of. Moreover, I can imagine that others are also critical about this. I have to follow how it develops now. What's gonna happen in practice at Sandd? If there are contract agreements, did the employees really choose to do so? What considerations did the employee have to choose for this? What does it mean in practice for the percentages of deliveryers with a contract of employment and deliveryers with a contract of employment? I must have looked at how it has developed in practice, before I or my colleague from Social Affairs and Employment can say to the Chamber: that was our intention at the time, this is the outcome and about any differences with the original objective the cabinet has that and that view. We must, of course, refer that view back to the Chamber. I propose that I now take note of the critical view of these two spokesmen and of any other spokesmen. If we have seen how it works in practice, we will draw our conclusions and submit them to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u104	Has the Minister made an agreement with a union, such as the union that has now reached this agreement with Sandd, during the time he was in charge of social affairs and employment as a ruler? Has he envisaged such a union in writing the General Measure of Management?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u105	As a minister, I was never allowed to distinguish between unions. We have the FNV, the CNV, the Union and the union that made these agreements. I can't say that I like one of them, I like the other less and I don't like anyone else at all. When I talk about collective bargaining, I cannot say: that is what I mean, that is less and that is not what I mean. It can't be. If we lay down that a collective agreement may derogate from a particular rule and then a collective agreement is concluded according to the rules in force, then we simply use the legal possibilities that we ourselves have created. We can then come back to the conclusion that we should not have done so and that we should make a change in that regard. We have that freedom. However, I propose that we do not do so until we have been able to determine what is actually the effect of the provision that we ourselves have incorporated into the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u106	I can tell the Minister what the practical effect is. In the last eight years, I have called or called Sandd myself at least nine times asking if I, or my employee, could possibly be employed there as a mailman. Nine times I have been told that this is possible, but only on the basis of a contract of engagement. I have never been told that you can come to work with us and enter into a contract of employment directly or in the long term. In my view, Sandd keeps the Chamber, as well as the directors, just in the dark. We can make that happen; I am fine with it. However, I do not understand what we have been doing here in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u107	I understand that Mrs Gesthuizen sees this as true, but we, as legislators, have accepted that the provision on 80% permanent contracts of employment may be waived in the collective agreement. We didn't say that one union can do this and the other union can't. In doing so, we have created a legal possibility that is now being used. I believe that we can come to a different conclusion on the subject, but we must first look at how the whole thing is going to work out in practice. I never set Mrs. Gesthuizen up as a liar, and I'm not doing that now. Her information is valuable to me. However, I also have other information at my disposal, which shows that this option is indeed offered to those involved and that in practice many people prefer a contract of engagement for their muffled reasons. I'm not drawing a final conclusion from that. As soon as this is possible and sufficient information is available, I will look over the whole together with my colleague from SZW and then see how that relates to what was intended. Then we'll come back to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u108	This is an example of how we can look very technically at the matter. That is what the Minister does, and he probably has the law and the legal consideration on his side. We are having numerous debates here in the House of Representatives on matters which we do not think are desirable. I am thinking of the very high bonuses in banks and public institutions. We then make a law and then it turns out that there is another way to circumvent that law. Then we can all say to the letter of the law that this was indeed an opportunity to circumvent that law. Sometimes, however, it is also good to simply ask ourselves what we actually think of that. I wonder what the Minister thinks of that. He has said that it can be done and that it will be looked at how it will work out in practice. I agree with Mrs Gesthuizen that in recent years the practice has been to squeeze mailers on the basis of labour-conditional competition. If that is the case, I hope that the Minister will do a little more than acknowledge that we have given technical space for something that we all do not want.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u109	I can tell you what I think, because I have always been involved in this dossier, both as Minister for Social Affairs and now as Minister for Economic Affairs. I've been there from the beginning, and I have the same image as Mrs. Gesthuizen. Our intention was to have at least 80% employment contracts at both PostNL and Sandd. However, we have also laid down in that law that derogations may be made by collective agreement. This is what we do by default in matters of this kind. The government lays down certain things in the law, but when employers and employees come to different agreements in their own area, we respect that. That is what we have laid down in the law. It is therefore not the case that there has been a search for an opportunity to evade that arrangement. No, we just deliberately laid that down in the law. I understand the substance of Mrs Gesthuizen's reasoning and others, like Mrs Vos, who said this with equal emphasis, and I understand how they put it and how they look at it. However, I also understand what we have laid down in the law. That is why I believe that a review is possible, but that it should be done at a time when we have followed developments and looked at the situation. We must have an overview of the whole, including the views of the workers concerned, of the company and of the applicant workers concerned, so that we can compare this with our original intention. At that point, we could do things differently. As legislators, however, one cannot say at one time that a collective agreement should be allowed to derogate and a six months later that this should not be allowed, or at least that the FNV and the CNV should be allowed to do so, perhaps the Union, but that you should not do so. You can't do that as a legislator. We must take ourselves seriously at these difficult times in terms of our own legal provisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u110	I agree with the Minister on that last point. Now I'm talking about the trajectory. The Minister said he wanted to see how the practice worked out compared to the intention we all had at the time and which I believe is clearly defined in all the documents, namely that the contract of employment is the dominant form and that we want to work towards 80%. However, should that take a year? The Minister mentioned at the end of 2015. He is now talking about a process in which he wants to put the practice along the legal space and do something only when the practice is what we do not want. Is that really supposed to take a year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u111	Yes. To get a good idea whether there are differences between the actual situation and the intended situation you need some time. I think the period from one and a half years to the end of 2015 is reasonable. If we were to look at it at the moment, we would see at Sandd that the percentage of employment contracts is above 50, I think. But I do not know if this is still the case at the end of the year. It may well be, as Mrs Gesthuizen said, that the percentage is now at 50 but it is falling towards 25. It could be. I therefore believe that we should not look too early at how things are developing in practice. It should not take too long, as this is an important point for the Chamber; I think it is an important point myself. We have therefore chosen to do so at the end of the year. I think we can do it responsibly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u112	I fully agree with what Mr Verhoeven said. There's more than just the law and the rules. It is very important to look at what the legislator meant, the spirit of the law. In my input, and in my mood about this practice, I have put the emphasis on an economic argument which the whole Chamber considers very important, and which I think the Minister of EZ also considers important, namely the level playing field. This is now seriously disrupted in a labour-intensive market. Another argument, for which I believe the Minister is also very sensitive, is this: agreement is an agreement. We agreed to this with the Chamber. A party for which we have really tried, is now violating that agreement. On the economic argument, a fair playing field, I would like to have the Minister's opinion. I think he can give it faster than he said he could. PostNL has 100% employment contracts. Sandd has about 50%. An ovo is 40% cheaper. The Minister can already figure out how much advantage Sandd has. I understand that the Minister wants to have some time, but this has been going on for some time now, because Sandd has been saying that he has not been able to keep the previous commitments. I understand very well that the Minister wants to do this together with his colleague for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u113	Are you heading for a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u114	I would like to confirm from the Minister that it is already clear that there is no economic level playing field here. Does he want to find out more quickly what is going on and what needs to be done to restore that fair playing field?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u115	I agree with many of the views expressed by Mrs Vos on this issue and the things she says on this point. I would also like to say that we have said very consciously, as we almost always do, that we can derogate from collective agreements. Therefore, there has been a deviation according to the rules of the collective agreement. The company has made use of a legal possibility that we have created ourselves. If we want to get back to that, I think we should have a good story, also in order to act reasonably towards that company. The government is obliged to act consistently and consistently, but does not always have to stick to what has ever been said. Deviating from this should not happen from one month to the next either. It must be properly analysed. I therefore believe that the cabinet should have a good analysis and for some time. Then it could come with that at the end of the year. I am prepared to talk to my colleague in Social Affairs about what has been said here. So far we have come to this conclusion together, but we shall look again at what is the right time to look at it. I think that's the end of this year, but we're still checking whether it's possible or necessary sooner or later. If we come to that conclusion, I'll let the Chamber know. I think we should impose on ourselves that we really have a proper file and a well-founded case before we deviate from our own provisions. My conclusion is that at the earliest at the end of this year we can have a case in a responsible way. So I'm asking the Chamber to give me that space.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u116	Don't we already have a lot of these cases with Vreeman's report? You say that the Chamber must be consistent and reliable. The Court therefore has those substantive agreements on working conditions and a level playing field. That is the consistent line of the Chamber. Deviation from a rule that can be done is not, in my opinion, the main point. Does the Minister agree with me on this and on the fact that Mr Vreeman has actually done a lot of preparatory work?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u117	Certainly, but after Mr Vreeman has done all his preparatory work, we have set up this scheme. We have accepted that a collective agreement should be allowed to derogate from this. That is what happened according to the rules. The company that does that, you can certainly not blame it in a formal sense. In a material sense, you can think differently about that. You have expressed your opinion on this, just as others have expressed their opinion on it. I have also said something about it, but I will not draw the conclusion until I can see how it will work out in practice with all the possible consequences that it will have. On the basis of the analysis of developments and the situation at that time, as far as I am concerned at the end of the year, the cabinet will take a decision on this. That is what we are presenting to the Chamber, so that it can see whether it can agree or not. I think we should do it this way. I don't see any other options. The feelings of the spokesmen, who, like others, have been involved in this dossier for a very long time and who say that this practice is different from what they had imagined at the time, I can well understand. That's it at this last point. I am now going to visit the spokesmen to see which other points are still to be discussed. Mr. De Love sees a future for what he calls "a slow stamp." He means that we do not oblige the company to deliver 95% of the letters within one day, as we do now, but that we allow it to slow down. Then the company can also charge a lower amount. At the moment that is not the issue because the company does not need it. It is believed that what is needed for organization and infrastructure within the company does not lead to lower costs. I do think that this idea should be followed and that we should consider whether developments are not such that something else should be done on this point. I therefore propose that, at the next review, we should include a periodic review of this issue in this law: what about development on this issue? Isn't it interesting for the company to do that now? What view can we, as a government, have on this? So it is not at the moment, but it is not excluded for the future. This will be discussed in the next evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u118	I appreciate that the Minister has asked PostNL what they think of this suggestion, but we must also bear in mind the importance of the consumer. We must keep these interests in balance. More from the point of view of the consumer, I therefore ask the Minister what he thinks of that possibility, leaving out what PostNL himself thinks of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u119	I let that go all the time, because I really make my own opinion. I'll take the company into account, but I'm not going after the company. The question is whether it is possible to treat mail separately within the company. Now the company must treat all mail equally. If you have to split up mail and treat one part of sister and the other part like this, you also need an organization to be able to do so. If the costs for that organisation are such that there will be no savings on balance, there is no point. You must be able to save costs and pass those lower costs on to the consumer in the form of a cheaper stamp. Once that is a real option, it must come into view, but at the moment it is not. That is why we cannot conclude at this stage that this can or cannot be done, but we must pay particular attention to this at the next evaluation. Then we have to look at the situation at the time and see whether there is any possibility of differentiation in the interests of the consumer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u120	PostNL already distinguishes the speed of mail flows. They also know the business market, in which they are very large. In that market, mail does not have to be delivered within 24 hours. It may take several days. They fit into their process and into their flows. They try to do so as smoothly and effectively as possible so that they can carry out this at the lowest possible cost and maximise their profits. So this has been happening in the business process for a long time. I merely propose that this possibility be created for the consumer who puts a stamp on the envelope or postcard. The objection of the internal organisation therefore does not seem to me to be a serious reason, because in practice it already appears that PostNL has different mail flows with different delivery times.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u121	With all due respect to Mr.De Liefde, I do not think the company PostNL knows how a VVD member should function. I also think that a VVD room member does not know better than PostNL about the costs that are caused in the company and how to deal with them. I think it's the company's first responsibility to see if this is a possibility. The company has informed me that there is currently no cost savings to be achieved by introducing this. This means that, on balance, we only accept part of the post that the letters take three days instead of one day, while that does not give consumers any financial benefit. We're not buying anything for that. It is necessary to consider at some point whether the situation is such that there is a financial advantage, a cost advantage to be achieved. If so, serious consideration should be given to introducing that possibility. I'd like to give the room for that. I take that proposal seriously, too. I am going to deal with that at the next evaluation, but I am not going to say to the company's analysis that it should. I don't think that's justified. Mr De Liefde said that there should be proper consultation with the organisations concerned about the placement of mailboxes and the post offices, and that it is my responsibility or that of the ACM to monitor them. He's absolutely right about that. Others have said the same thing. The universal postal service is an important service for people in the Netherlands. If you're going to change things in that, it should be properly discussed with those involved. You can't talk to all the individuals, so you look up the consumer organisations locally and nationally. You talk to congregations. You talk to organizations of people in a neighborhood or village. Then you'll see what you're planning, unpacking and if there are any counter-arguments that you might have to consider as a company in order to change your choice. That absolutely must be done. I also notice that PostNL does. It also tried it out. It has carried out a pilot in an area where there are currently more post offices and mailboxes than they are required to do. In that pilot, they reduced that multiple to what they were required to do. In it they looked at how they could organize that by approaching both the authorities and the people themselves. It has gained experience in this field. It used online media for that. It used printed sheets. It sent letters. It has spoken with everything and everyone: municipalities, interest groups, the Consumers' Association, the National Association for Small Cores and elderly organisations. It's learned from that. This system also intends to apply it to the implementation of what we may decide here today. This also means that we are not going to carry out tomorrow what we may decide today. This is going to play in the longer term. This has to be carefully prepared. I estimate that this whole will take place in 2018. A wider period is therefore needed to prepare it well, as Mr.De Love pointed out. Mr De Liefde also talked about how the ACM can monitor the costs. Last year, when the postal regime was revised, which started on 1 January 2014, we strengthened the rules. What information should PostNL give to the ACM? The ACM then checks that PostNL also complies with all the rules for the provision of information. Then the ACM will make the calculations. What about those charges? Is there no cross-subsidisation outside the UPD? Does it allocate mass benefits it achieves through combinations only to the business post and not to the UPD? All that sort of thing follows the ACM critically. If there is a need for a higher stamp price, the ACM also checks whether that is sufficiently substantiated and whether this is confirmed by the underlying figures. The ACM is on top of that with all the possibilities it has received. It has also been given the opportunity to intervene in advance if it thinks that something is going on that it cannot control afterwards. It is currently examining whether it should come forward with an indication on a part of the postal market to do something in advance. The legislator has created and is making use of a real possibility. So I am confident that we have settled the matter well with the supervision of the ACM and the possibilities that we have given the ACM. Whether this is the case in practice, we will look at the evaluation. I am therefore positive about the effectiveness of the supervisory instruments. Mr De Liefde said that, as from 1 January 2016, in our European Presidency, we should prioritise the modernisation of European postal delivery rules and greater scope for customisation. I am not going to promise him that; I cannot promise every debate that I will make a priority of something. Then I am neither credible nor effective as chairman of the Councils. I will be chairman of three European trade councils. I would like to set out the priorities for each of these trade councils and discuss my choice of priorities with the Chamber. I will involve Mr. Love's wish. Then I will make my choice and go through it with the Chamber in advance to see if the Chamber agrees. I have dealt with the points raised by Mr Graus about the mailboxes and the post offices. Mr Graus has given me a drawing, which has been coloured in part, for which I thank him. He proposes a moving post office in the outskirts with an ATM attached to it. This way extra service can be provided in the outside area. The ATM service is provided by the banks. The service regarding letters and mail is provided by PostNL. For business mail this is also done by another company and for packages there are other companies. If companies add a mobile option to that, I don't know how that works. I do not know what the profit is, given what we are already doing with regard to the distribution of establishments and mailboxes. A mobile unit like that doesn't go past every house in the outskirts. It goes from village to village and probably it will stand in some places in a village. I do not know whether the added value outweighs the costs to be incurred. If that is not the case, it only leads to higher costs for the people and they have to pay more for a stamp than is necessary. The fact that companies themselves have not come up with this possibility seems to me an indication that it is not profitable. However, I do not want to say the last word on this. If the market is shrinking and the level of provision needs to be reduced, you should still see how to guard the lower limit. Whether mobile provision can play a role in addition to numbers and dispersal requirements seems to me to be a suggestion that can be included in the periodic consultation with the company and the periodic consultation with the bank. I will see how this suggestion by Mr Graus, made earlier by the CDA Group and by D66 in 2011, will work if we discuss this with the companies involved. I will then inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u122	I thank the Minister, because I think this is a good commitment. I had a motion in hand, but I won't file it. As for the ATMs, I say that VDL also made the ATMs for the Bruna business, which now includes post offices. I'm sorry to mention the name again, but I'm proud of that Dutch company. The point is, for example, that there is a postmobile somewhere on Tuesday from 12.00 to 14.00 hours, which is then again somewhere else from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u123	Could you please read the entire timetable?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u124	I have it ready, Mr President! But this way costs can be spared, and that is of course what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u125	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u126	I know that a similar provision has been in the library area for years. There have then been developments in the field of reading which have led to changes. It is not in itself a crazy idea to consider whether this idea can play a role in maintaining a certain basic level of provision, but it needs to be looked at in terms of final added value and costs. It is also a decision that must ultimately be taken by the companies responsible for it. However, from my responsibility for basic provision for citizens, a serious suggestion from Parliament deserves attention in my contacts with those companies. So I will also pay that attention to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u127	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u128	Mr Graus also spoke about the stamp price, which has been increased. He's wondering where the border is. If we are reluctant about the cost savings, there will be more pressure on the price. If we do what can reasonably be done in terms of cost savings, pressure will be reduced from that price. I do not know exactly where the upper limit is, but I do know that we can limit the stamp price by doing what is now proposed by the cabinet and hopefully get the support of the Chamber. On the other points raised by Mr Graus, I dealt with five points at the beginning. I have answered Mr De Rouwe's question as to what the purpose of the law is. I have spoken about the importance of profitable management for the continuity and quality of the service. I hope that will convince Mr De Rouwe. Mr De Rouwe also said that the locations of the remaining post offices and mailboxes are of great importance. There are still a lot of them, because for the mailboxes something changes only in cores greater than 5,000 inhabitants. Instead of within 500 meters, you'll have a mailbox there within 1,000 meters. At the post offices, there is no change in the dispersal requirements. So I think there are modest changes. In the choices that need to be made, it is indeed necessary to look very closely at the precise impact on the locations. PostNL itself has already said that it does not intend to remove mailboxes from nursing homes. That's a choice the company made itself, and I think it's important. PostNL also demonstrated at the pilot I was talking about earlier that it is very focused on consulting the environment and with organisations, to see if there are any arguments against the conclusions that the company itself has drawn. It is considered whether these arguments can be maintained and whether changes should be made on the basis of these consultations. I therefore believe that Mr De Rouwe will be given the care he wants. Mr De Rouwe discussed an amendment tabled by Mrs Mulder proposing that not only consultation should be sought, but that it should also be taken into account. What Mrs Mulder proposes in this amendment is in line with what is envisaged by the law. It is a further specification on the last part, which I have no objection to. I leave the opinion on this amendment to the House. It is, in my mind, the amendment to part No. 9, but I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u129	You are right, it is the Agnes Mulder amendment to item No. 9. Mr De Rouwe has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u130	My question concerns the previous point. I did mention the pilot in my contribution. I hear the Minister is calling him now when it comes to PostNL and the care to see whether or not to remove something in certain places. This has to do with special locations, but also with support. It says to me that PostNL sent a letter to people prematurely and that the company, if there was much objection, has made a review to remove or not remove a mailbox. Can the Minister please inform us specifically whether this pilot is intended to be used as a standard for this whole operation? Or is it a pilot whose outcome, so how further it is handled, is still uncertain? I am considering a motion on that point, but if this method is intended to be used at all these locations later, I find that motion somewhat superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u131	This pilot is intended for the company PostNL to make the transition that I hope we can make here happen in a responsible way. PostNL has tried it out and looked at what it can learn from it in order to do it optimally in the future. I think it would be useful to inform the Chamber of the standard method of operation which is to be chosen on the basis of that pilot in the follow-up. I'll send that information to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u132	I think that is very reasonable and fair. Then I would like to say that in a community there can be real support for a letterbox, referring to my input. If the Minister wants to keep in mind to look at that, I think it is excellent. I do not think it is necessary to make an explicit motion on this, as long as we keep a finger on the wrist. I also see the Minister as a bit of a system manager. For the postal network, for communication and for the way in which many tasks lie at PostNL, but also the Empire and the Minister have a system responsibility for a careful process when the green light is given.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u133	I feel it, too, because this is a more universal service that we impose on a company. That is what we think is important. We have considerations for this, which Mr De Rouwe and others have mentioned. From that background, I feel responsible for the careful implementation of this. But when it comes to acceptance, the facts are allowed to play alongside the consultation. If you consult with a neighborhood and say he thinks a mailbox is terribly important, but it only turns out to be three letters a week, those are facts that a company has to take into account. But it is Mr De Rouwe's intention, namely that there should be a real consultation, that you should respond in terms of content within a certain time when you receive comments and that I am responsible for ensuring that this is done in a proper manner. I feel responsible for that, too. I will forward to the Chamber the information on the standard approach. I now turn to the General Measure of Governance, on which Mr De Rouwe has also said something. We have now laid down many things in detail in the law. With this legislative amendment, in this amended law, we want to lay down the broad lines of the obligations for PostNL with regard to the UPD. In addition, we want to establish that account is taken of vulnerable users in particular. For that, we have chosen a careful wording in the legislative proposal. However, in a few parts of the report, we have said that we need to look at how the market is developing, in particular with regard to the spreading requirements and the 95% to be delivered within one day. Indeed, this market is shrinking by 8% to 9%. This means that the entire organization that is built around it is under pressure. If you then have to adjust something to ensure that there is an adequate response, you have to do so through an amendment that lasts a year and a half. After all, you need to analyse carefully what this legislative change should look like. Then you need to consult, as agreed with the Chamber. When that consultation's over, you're gonna see what you're gonna do with it. It then goes to the Council of State. Then you get a reaction from the Council of State at some point. Then it goes to the Lower House. Then you get a written contribution and then a plenary session. Then it goes to the First Chamber. Then there is another written debate and a plenary speech. So you're a year and a half away. In a market that develops rapidly down, this can take too long. We have no interest in that. We also have no interest in putting the Chamber out of play. We have chosen to keep the broad lines of the law. We are adding an additional provision concerning vulnerable users. In addition, the law stipulates that there should be periodic evaluation. The other things that we want to be able to decide more quickly, if necessary, will not be done outside the Chamber. We'll let that go through a front suspension procedure. We submit to the Lower House and to the Upper House for what we intend, for example, with regard to the spreading requirements. If the Chamber does not agree with that, the Chamber will vote in favour of the motion and the party will not go on. It has been proposed that this should not be done by means of an ordinary suspension procedure, but by means of a weighted suspension procedure, as Mrs Vos calls it. That's what this is all about. If 20% of the members of the House of Representatives or 20% of the members of the House of Representatives say that it is not a good idea to do so through an AMvB, we still have to set up legislation for this. That would mean that the PvdA group or the VVD group or some other groups could say together that it is not going to happen. 20% is enough. Then we still have to go to that law. We first choose to do it in the form of an AMvB. Then it's all worked out neatly and legally well put together. Then there's a consult. Then it goes to the room. If 20% of the Chamber says no, we go back and then we go through the entire legal process again. That means it's going to take longer than you put it in the law. In my opinion, a weighted procedure is no improvement compared to the current situation, whereas I need an improvement. It is a deterioration compared to the current situation. That is why I do not think the increased procedure makes any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u134	But you have heard the concerns that live in the Chamber. The Chamber really wants to have a say. We have other experiences with AMvBs. If the minister has to choose between a weighted front or just keep it in the law, what does he choose?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u135	Sorry, Mrs. Fox might want to put the question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u136	The Chamber would like to be able to discuss any changes. We've discussed three forms. I can tell that a lot of people don't feel like a regular AMvB. We have a choice between a weighted front or just leave it in the law. The latter is the aim of Mrs Schouten's amendment. If the minister has to choose between a weighted front or just leave it in the law, what would he prefer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u137	I see four options. The first possibility is that it comes into an AMvB that can implement the cabinet without the use of the Chamber. The second possibility is a veil for only the Lower House or for the Second and Upper Chambers. The third possibility is a weighted front hanging. Then you will not leave it to the majority of the Chamber but to 20% of the Chamber. The fourth possibility is that you put it in the law. I don't like the opportunity to do it outside the Chamber. All Members of Parliament also consider these issues to be so important that the Chamber should simply have the last word. That is why I choose the second option, namely a veil. If we want something but the Chamber does not, the Chamber will be given the opportunity to pronounce it. If the Chamber said that, it's off. That third possibility, the weighted front, is a further deterioration compared to the law. I wouldn't want that. Leaving it in the law is not my preference. I am defending my proposal, because why would we deprive ourselves of the opportunity to react quickly and adequately if something has to happen in the rapidly changing market? If "quick" means that the cabinet thinks it can do it carefully, that both the Second and the First Chamber can take the opportunity for themselves to question the cabinet. They can enter into a debate with me and then decide whether it is for or against it, then I think we will act carefully both to the cabinet and to the Chamber and at the same time have the speed that is desired. I call for it to be done according to my proposal: a veil, both for the First and Second Chambers, to enable the Chamber to have a broad view on the substance of any amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u138	The government can dismiss a motion in such an ordinary AMvB. Why does it all have to be so awfully fast? The Minister sees that we deal with laws, that goes at a reasonable pace. PostNL has always had scenarios. I do not understand why there must be so much haste at once and that an instrument must now be taken out of the closet that we have some difficulty with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u139	A minister can try to dismiss a motion. I do that myself sometimes when I think it is not justified to do what is stated in the motion. I have to answer in the Chamber about the opinion I have. The Chamber will then decide whether or not it accepts it. If we want to change something in the SPD, a basic provision which is important to the Chamber, and we ask for the opinion of the Chamber and the Chamber gives this, I find it difficult to imagine that we are going to deviate from it. That's not realistic. It's not that fast. I ask not per ministerial arrangement so that I can do it myself, not even per AMvB outside the Chamber, but per AMvB with a veil for the Second and First Chambers. I think that's faster than leaving it in the law. For a necessary change, you have to go through the entire legal procedure. It is, however, an arrangement which respects the interests of the Chamber. The opinion of the Chamber must ultimately be respected in this matter. If the Chamber says no, it's off. I think I'm offering the Chamber space for this. Mrs Vos has tried to place something between the AMvB with veils that the cabinet proposes and leave in the law. It has chosen the weighted front for this purpose. If I were able to make it clear to Mrs Vos that this is not in between, but rather a deterioration compared to leaving it in the law, she might be able to consider whether, with the explanation I have given about the procedure and the way in which the cabinet intends to deal with it, it would be possible for her to agree on further consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u140	In my text, I indicated that the Council of State has indicated that essential features and essential guarantees of access at law level should be regulated. Will the Minister state why he disagrees with the Council of State on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u141	I don't think I do. The essential requirements are laid down in the law. I just indicated that another one was added. We are giving ourselves the opportunity to do so more quickly than in a year and a half in those parts where, as a result of the shrinkage in the market, it may be necessary to act in the interests of the consumer. A period of one and a half years can often be defended, but within the current developments in the postal market, this may be undesirable. I want to create the possibility for ourselves to react quickly if necessary, without passing through the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u142	In my text, I have already indicated that at the moment, for example in rural areas, the provision of services or the distribution of services is 98.9%. There's a margin in the law to 85%. This already gives incredibly much space to PostNL, for example, to anticipate developments. Does the Minister recognize that? Does he agree with us that, if we lay down a basic standard here, it already offers a great deal of space to PostNL to implement the UPD, also given the changed market conditions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u143	I have not had any reason to doubt it before and I have no reason to doubt Mrs Schouten's figures, but I cannot repeat that 98.9% from my own knowledge. If PostNL is at 98.9%, while the company is required to 85%, it appears that it has created that situation of its own free will. We will see how that develops. Given the rapidly reducing use of the postal option, I do not think it is realistic to maintain the entire organisation. I think it is justified that the organisation should be reduced to a minimum limit previously laid down in the law, even if that would in practice lead to a reduction in the number of letterboxes. I was there to answer Mr De Rouwe's questions. I have already addressed his comments on the AMvB. I have already spoken about the net cost regulation. The same applies to the court letters. Mrs Schouten speaks of essential social services. I agree with her. I, too, believe that a public task is being carried out. I don't think I'm getting too excited behind profitable business operations. What I do is to make the UPD profitable, to ensure that it is maintained. I have already dealt with the amendments. The combination of post offices and parcel points I find something to look at, just as I told Mr.De Love that you can look at combined delivery. You can also look at the possibilities for the collection and distribution points. The company will undoubtedly do so for competition reasons. It seems to me very useful to pay particular attention to this in the evaluation. Following on from what I have promised Mr De Love, I am also doing so for the package items mentioned by Mrs Schouten. Mrs Vos said that the physical infrastructure must remain. She understands that more and more digital is going on, but believes that the physical infrastructure for the post should be maintained. I do not know what it will be like in the long term; Mr.De Love looked ahead to that point. I believe that physical infrastructure will continue to be important in the future. I am therefore motivated to maintain that UPD in the long term. In what form will that be, the evaluations will always be examined. With a changed situation, a better form may be possible. Mrs. Vos wants to know what the costs of the UPD are. The company is obliged to inform the ACM about the costs, not only the total costs, but also the costs on all kinds of components. The ACM was created by the Chamber and me and entrusted with the responsibility to supervise those costs. I understand Mrs. Vos wants to do that herself. This can be done by having the information submitted and then assessing it, but we have chosen jointly not to do so ourselves, but to do so by the ACM. We want the ACM to have all the information it needs. This includes company confidential information. I can imagine that the Chamber would only want company confidential information if it needed it. Monitoring such costs is very specific work, for which you must have separate expertise, which has been collected from the ACM. If the Court leaves that to the ACM, I do not think it would be logical for her to request that company confidential information to assess it herself. Understanding the costs and assessing them expertly is of the utmost importance. It's a good thing we put that in the ACM. We need to create the conditions for the ACM to do this right. We must be able to trust that it will be done in the way we want it to be done, so that we can do just that. That is my view on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u144	The Minister understands that we find it difficult to authorise the reduction of costs through an AMvB. We are now being asked a lot as politicians. We have no idea whether profits are being made or the costs. I understand exactly what the Minister says about the ACM. They're all very smart people, and they can calculate all this well. We gave them the tools for that. Is there any way to make us feel a little bit more about the costs, without having to see all the details and ins and outs right away? We now have to decide again on the increase in the stamp price and all kinds of things that we have just talked about, without having any sympathy with the question of whether all this is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u145	The Chamber does have a good feeling, which it has given a separate and highly specialised supervisor all the tools it needs to understand the costs. All this is laid down in regulations, which means that the company has to come to the supervisor with all that information. The supervisory authority has the possibility to intervene, correct and assess both ex post and ex ante. I think we've done what we can with that. The Cabinet and the Chamber can also have that information provided. However, the Chamber has appointed an independent supervisor for this purpose and has given these powers. It ensures that he has the expertise and gets the information to do what the Chamber considers important. In addition, the Court has again laid down in the law that the profits made on the UPD should not exceed 10% of turnover. I say to the Chamber that there has been a loss in the past and that the profit at present is certainly not higher than 10% of turnover. I therefore believe that the Court has set the framework conditions very clearly and ensured the quality of supervision. In this way, what the Chamber wants to achieve will also be achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u146	So we must and can rely on it, as the Minister says, that the ACM will squeak itself if the costs of the UPD do not justify the introduction of all kinds of austerities and stamp price increases. The ACM will inform us about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u147	Yes. The ACM is responsible for ensuring that no cheating is carried out in any way with regard to the costs of the UPD. If the large company PostNL, which does business mail, packages and the UPD, combines things and thus manages to achieve cost savings, it should not only pass those cost savings on to the packages and business mail. Such savings should therefore be made in proportion to the UPD. That's just an example. All that kind of stuff is being closely watched. I can assure the Chamber they're on top of it. I notice that every time I go into this important dossier. In my opinion, we could not do better. If anything goes wrong here, there will be intervention, either afterwards or in advance. I will continue to follow that myself. If at any point I have the impression that something is not going well there, I will not only act towards the ACM and PostNL, but I will also let the Chamber know. I believe that the Chamber has made it clear that it considers this an important subject. So if there are any important developments, the Chamber will hear the same from me. Mrs Vos asked whether there was any conflict with the Postal Directive. What we are proposing here is not contrary to the Postal Directive. We have even presented this separately to the European Commission and have been told that there is no conflict. I told you, cross-subsidisation is not allowed outside the UPD. It's okay to do that in the UPD. This therefore remains within the European framework that has been established for this purpose. Mrs Vos believes that the constantly higher stamp price will ultimately have a negative impact on the postal volume. Of course, I think it is. If you make something more expensive, it will be used more carefully and less. The question is, when is that really gonna play? Do you not send a mourning card if a stamp costs €0.76 and if it costs €0.69? I don't know exactly where the border is. However, I know that, precisely in order to print the stamp price, the measures we have now proposed are of the utmost importance. As a result, we can reduce costs and keep the stamp price as low as possible, and this in turn prevents a negative impact on the already falling mail volume. Mrs Vos has tabled an amendment on the six-month period prior to an amendment. That deadline is intended to enable organisations to respond. Mrs Vos thinks that this deadline is too long, because she believes that four months should be sufficient to respond adequately and to take account of those reactions. Her amendment provides for the six months to be changed into four months. I do not think there are any major objections to Mrs Vos' proposal, because I do not see why this would be a deterioration in relation to the proposal made by the government to the Chamber. I would therefore like to leave this amendment to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u148	I assume that you are now talking about the amendment to item No. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u149	If you say that, it's probably true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u150	Mrs Vos has tabled two amendments, but we believe that you are now discussing the amendment on item No. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u151	I cannot contradict that logic; it must indeed be the amendment in part No. 15 years old. Now I see in my papers that this is true. I leave it to the House to decide on the amendment to item No. So 15 to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Vos has also set out her views on the employment contracts. That's what I've been working on. Mr Verhoeven pointed out that he broadly understood the logic of my proposal. He also expressed his view on the way in which the agreement on 80% employment contracts was implemented. That is the agreement made following Mr Vreeman's opinion. I have gone into this in detail. I agree with Mr Verhoeven's approach. This applies not only to this point but also to the other points he has raised. Mrs Gesthuizen spoke about the costs to be paid by large consumers for business mail and universal postal services. That's what I've been doing. She has given me an own-initiative paper and I will respond to it. It has also expressed its views on a number of other issues. These are the five points that I raised at the beginning of my speech. Mr. Chairman. I now turn to the other amendments. I should like to make a further comment on some of them. The opinion on the amendment to item No. 9 from Mrs Agnes Mulder I leave to the Chamber. Mrs Schouten has in part No. 10 tabled an amendment which states that in this case the AMvB should not be used with a pending procedure and that it should remain in the law. I have indicated why I do not share that view. That is why I reject the amendment to item No. 10 by Mrs Schouten. In her amendment to item No. Mrs Schouten says that... No, what I just said about the amendment to item No. 10 refers to the amendment to item No. 11. The amendment in part No. So I'm not suggesting 11. In the amendment to item No. 10 Mrs Schouten also deals with important requirements regarding the UPD...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u152	Let me explain. The amendment in part No. 10 indeed regulates that the content of the AMvB is incorporated back into the law. The amendment in part No. 11 reinforces the standard from 85% to 90% for sparsely populated areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u153	I thank Mrs Schouten for trying to get me out of trouble. The amendment in part No. 10 I advise against the arguments I have just given. In the amendment to item No. In fact, Mrs Schouten deals with the need to tighten the standard from 85% to 90%. I have indicated that the dispersal requirements for this section do not change. Mrs Schouten will change it with this amendment. However, in response to the contributions of the spokesmen, I have already indicated that I am not in favour of this. That is why I am also in favour of Amendment No 2. 11 detachment. In the amendment to item No. 12 is said to remain Articles 30 and 31 of the Postal Act. This concerns the net cost regulation. I said that an important part of this bill is to throw away the net cost regulation, at the same time as the new shoes that we create with it, as old shoes. That is consistent, and that is also the right time to do so, and that is also justified by the line we are choosing now, also because of the importance of competition in the market, in particular competition from Sandd. That is why I reject the amendment to item No. 12. In the amendment to item No. 13, tabled by Mrs Mulder, calls for a heavy-duty suspension procedure. I have just gone into the increased front suspension procedure. I told him I didn't want it. That is why I reject the amendment to item No. 13. The amendment in part No. 14, tabled by Mrs Vos, is also about a heavy-duty provision. On the basis of the arguments I have just exchanged extensively with Mrs Vos, I would also advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u154	Mrs. Fox, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u155	I don't know what weighs very heavily on the Minister. Perhaps that is the provision that at least one fifth of the number of members of one of the Chambers should express the wish that the subject matter of the General Measure of Governance should be governed by law. I am quite prepared to increase the number of Members to half. In that case, a significant part of the Chamber must have a problem with the AMvB. This creates the flexibility that Mr Kamp wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u156	May I take a closer look at Mrs Fox's proposal? I will try to send a written response to that to the Chamber this week. I am in favour of a normal suspension procedure. If the Chamber says it doesn't want something, it won't. Mrs. Vos wants to formalize it. If we do what Mrs Vos is trying to do, we will have to go back to a legal path in the event of a weighted suspension procedure. As far as I am concerned, if the House says no, it will be no for me. Then I won't even try to come up with a legal trajectory. I therefore object to what Mrs Vos is proposing, but in view of the change she is now putting forward, I would like a separate written response. I'm gonna bring that up this week. The amendment in part No. 14 in its present form is not recommended by me. The opinion on the amendment to item No. 15, tabled by Mrs Vos, I left to the Chamber. I have already gone into the 80% fixed-term contracts in detail. In the amendment to item No. 16, tabled by Mrs Gesthuizen, addresses this point. I would like to come back to this point at the end of the year, in the way I explained. That is why I must also advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u157	A short question from Mrs Gesthuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u158	Perhaps my question can avoid a second deadline on my part. Can the Minister say how much time he needs to respond to the own-initiative paper?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u159	I would like to give that response together with my colleague from Social Affairs and Employment. There is therefore a need for coordination. However, from what Mrs Gesthuizen, Mrs Vos and others have said, I understand that they consider the situation to be undesirable. I assume that this has been further developed in the own-initiative paper. Given the sentiments of the Chamber, I will try to respond quickly. I'm trying to do this by February at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u160	That's a good promise. Then I'll keep your promise on your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u161	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the comprehensive, detailed and careful treatment. We appreciate that very much. We have seen with each other that the postal market is moving and will continue to move, and that this requires us to be alert and also keep moving and move along with these developments. One party in this house does that a little easier than the other, I'm just gonna establish. I'd like to make one motion. This concerns the stamp price and the introduction of a new stamp, namely a postage stamp that is not delivered within one day but within for example three days. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the purpose of the Postal Act is to provide an affordable and accessible basic postal service;]] [[noting that the stamp price has increased significantly in recent years;]] [[considers that consumers need options regarding speed and pricing when sending mail;]] [[noting that the UPD service provider is already collecting, processing and delivering UPD and non-UPD mail, with significantly lower prices and longer delivery hours;]] [[calls on the government to examine how stamps with different speeds and prices can be realized within the UPD,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member of Love. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34024-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u162	As part of this motion, I would like to ask the Minister to allow its implementation to take place in this calendar year. I think that gives enough room for the Minister to consult consumer organisations, PostNL and other stakeholders. However, we must keep pace so that the consumer can be given a choice in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u163	Thank you. Speaking of tempo, Mr Graus is abandoning his term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u164	Mr. Chairman. A word of thanks to the Minister for replying. He has succeeded in answering all the questions we have asked; for which thanks. I have noted an important commitment during an interruption, namely that the Minister does indeed feel systemically responsible, but also very strongly engages with PostNL to proceed to a careful consideration of interests, including acceptance. We had an exchange of views on this. There will also be a feedback to the Chamber on this. I believe that this will give the Minister a great deal of support for his plans, in particular to achieve the cost reduction for universal postal services. I would very much like to add this: this also creates a great obligation for PostNL as a universal postal service provider not to increase the stamp price. We have not changed how long such an increase cannot take place, but I think that in a possible new review of a new application for an increase, the ACM should revert to this debate, in which I think the Chamber has really given a lot of room to save costs. I wonder if the Minister will see this as well and if he can promise this. I think we did not agree on one point. This concerns the deletion of Articles 30 and 31. These articles relate to the fact that other postal operators also contribute to the payment of any net costs for the basic provision. Firstly, we believe that these net costs for basic provision will no longer occur in the near future, precisely because the number of postal items may fall significantly. So this might be a bit of a theoretical discussion. Secondly, we believe that other companies, too, could theoretically also be the cause of an increase in costs, as we have exchanged in relation to the original law. That is why, as far as we are concerned, Articles 30 and 31 can remain in the law. However, I think this is a side issue. The most important thing is that there is support, including with regard to the CDA, for a reduction in the cost of writing black figures again for an important service. So much for my contribution, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u165	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions and for responding to the amendments tabled. According to the Minister, the proposals all make sense. He says he doesn't want to have a net cost regulation anymore, because PostNL runs a loss on universal postal services. Something has to be done to get the costs back up. We can't turn it around anymore, which is why it has to go through the distribution and the mailboxes. That line makes sense, but I disagree. That is what my amendments have been aimed at. It seems to me that universal postal services should be the norm. From there, it is necessary to examine how this can be kept workable. That is why I have tabled my amendments. I want us as a room to keep our finger on the wrist. That is why I want the law to ensure that the sparsely populated areas are not destroyed. Thirdly, we must ensure that the net cost regime is maintained, because that is the argument that costs do not necessarily have to be passed on to the citizens. This last point is the most important. I note that all my amendments are not recommended. So it's up to the Chamber to deal with it. We will take it into account in our decision on this bill. Since there is no provision in the law for sparsely populated areas, I shall table the next motion. A scheme in an AMvB does not make much sense. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current Postal Act provides for at least 85% of residents living outside residential centres with more than 5,000 inhabitants to have a post office within a 5 km radius;]] [[Whereas PostNL data show that 98.9% of all inhabitants in sparsely populated areas had a service point available within 5 kilometres in July 2014;]] [[considers that postal services as a public service should also remain available in sparsely populated areas and small cores;]] [[calls on the government to increase the distribution requirement for sparsely populated areas from 85% to 90%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34024-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u166	As my amendment to item No. 11 is adopted, this motion is superfluous and I withdraw it in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u167	If it doesn't work out with the plan that the minister is going to look at with all the actors, I'd be sympathetic to it. Isn't it possible that you're holding the motion until we get a message from the minister about what he's gonna do to the postmobiles? That can of course mean an even better service. Is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u168	I don't think one thing rules out the other. I said this in an earlier interruption to Mr Graus. For us, the standard is important, because it creates a basic standard that must be met. That has been my whole argument. The way in which this is carried out will continue to be discussed and discussed. I understand the Minister is discussing this with the service providers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u169	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his once again eminent answer. I'm deeply impressed by his energy. He commutes all over the Netherlands and has a full agenda. A number of minor points have not been addressed by the Minister, for example the question of whether the effects of the bill have already been incorporated into the tariff system and when it is going to happen. I also talked about PostNL's liability, a fairly important point. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. Perhaps the Minister will be able to respond in a moment. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that liability in the event of missing registered letters is limited to €50, as it is thus laid down in the Postal Decree;]] [[Whereas the financial interest in registered letters may be multiple, for example in court letters on court cases involving tens of thousands of euros;]] [[Whereas, in certain cases, financial damage and liability in the event of lost registered letters are not in balance;]] [[calls on the Minister to consider how liability in case of lost registered letters can be adjusted to a more real amount, for example by introducing several categories of registered letters,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Mei Li Vos. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34024-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u170	We also had an exchange of views on my amendment on the increased front. I will amend this amendment and increase the limit within which the Chamber can try to correct the Minister at some point to half. I hope that the Minister is convinced that this does justice to the wishes of the Chamber to be involved and to the Minister's desire to be able to react quickly. I assume that the Minister, if he wants to make an AMvB, knows well in advance whether the Chamber can live with it. This raises the threshold a bit. I hope for a positive response to that. Finally. From the reaction to the discussion on Articles 30 and 31, I had once understood that the Minister would send scenario studies to the Chamber on the possible possibilities for the UPD to be set up in a very different way. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u171	Mr Verhoeven has already disappeared; Elvis has left the building. Mrs. Gesthuizen has waived her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u172	Mr. Chairman. Mr De Love's motion in part No. 17 is about what he initially called the "slow stamp." PostNL could take longer to deliver such a letter, while a lower amount could be charged. I have already indicated that this is a consultable option that is not currently in play, but may be able to play, and that we will present it separately at the next evaluation. The moment of the next evaluation I think is the best time. If the Chamber does not adopt a motion on this matter, I shall do so. If the House thinks in a majority as Mr De Love expressed in his motion, then I will also carry out that motion, but I do not recommend his motion positively because I think the time I have in mind is the best time. If the Chamber does not think otherwise, I declare myself prepared to do so as stated in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u173	So you're dissuading Mr. Love's motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u174	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u175	"Not positive" is something other than "dissuade." The Minister said that the evaluation will take place in 2016. I request that this motion be carried out in the calendar year 2015. I think we can find each other: let's make it the end of 2015. Perhaps the Minister could then change his opinion to "judge chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u176	The difference between how I formulated it and how Mr.De Love now formulates it is, on second thought, too small to discourage this motion. I have given my opinion on this, but leave it to the Chamber to decide on the motion. In the end, I will respect the view of the Chamber on this matter. On second thought, I shall therefore leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. The second motion was tabled by Mrs Schouten, but before I get there I will first look at Mr De Rouwe. He has indicated that, if the Court decides to do so, there is also a kind of moral obligation to limit the price of stamps to the maximum. I agree. Everything we do here is aimed at controlling costs in a shrinking market. That is the maximum we can do to limit a further increase in the stamp price as much as possible. To see if this is done correctly, we have put the ACM on top of it with all possible powers. In this way, I think we are acting in the spirit expressed by Mr De Rouwe. I do not think that the removal of the net cost regulation is the right way to go. If we do not remove this net cost regulation, then there is still the possibility of a claim being made to Sandd and a unexpected loss to universal service being partly passed on to Sandd. Given all the information I have at my disposal, I think that has a negative impact on Sandd and thus a negative impact on competition, particularly on the business market. It is large: 86% of the total. There competition is important to ensure that costs are as low as possible and that quality is as high as possible. That is why it is not wise to leave Articles 30 and 31. As we place the emphasis so that losses can be eliminated and there can be a low return of up to 10% of turnover, it is wise to remove this unnecessary pressure from Sandd and thus allow for continued competition in the business market. I hope I have answered Mr De Rouwe's points properly. Mrs Schouten says she does not agree with my reasoning. Its reasoning is that the UPD is the norm and that we should look from there at how best to implement it. I also think the UPD is the norm. I want to maintain that universal service, but if we entrust a company with that universal service, we must also enable it to do so in a cost-effective way. We should not burden a company with an obligation to then force it to suffer losses. I don't think that's a good thing. The fact that I look at the profitability of the company on this, that I do not think that this should be a negative return and that I take the measures to enable the company to make sure that it does not suffer a loss, is not contrary to Mrs Schouten's approach. There's no big difference between what changed between her and me. That also justifies what I have proposed with regard to her amendments. In her motion in part No. 18 Mrs Schouten says that the distribution requirement for postal establishments in sparsely populated areas should be increased from 85% to 90%. The proposal before us does not contain any changes to the dispersal requirements in the off-site area. One of the dispersal requirements is now at odds with the proposal we make in the legislative proposal. That's not good. Nor is it in the interests of the continuity of the universal postal service, which both Mrs Schouten and I consider important. That is why, after dissuading all of her amendments with pain in my heart, I also recommend this motion by Mrs Schouten. Then I have a motion from Mrs. Fox. First of all, she said that she felt the same way about pricing as Mr De Rouwe. What I said to Mr De Rouwe, I also said to Mrs Vos. I did not go into her point of liability for registered letters. She doesn't think €50 is enough. I'm sorry I left that in the first place. I'd like to go into that now. I am prepared to find out exactly where the basis is for the €50 and how long it has been in force. There is a relationship between the low amount of €8 that is requested for registered letters and limited liability up to €50. If you increase that liability, you should also increase the cost of registered letters. I do not know to what extent that will be the case and how difficult that is. I want to look at that. Mrs Vos's view on the problem she outlined is clear to me. I want to look at the situation, but I do not want to say that it needs to be increased to a more real amount. If Mrs Vos agrees with my explanation, I will leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. I will look at this in the way I have just explained. Mrs Vos also said that she would amend her amendment with regard to the increased front. Its intention is not to proceed to a legal procedure such as 20% of one of the two chambers which is of the opinion, but only if 50% of one of the two chambers is. I have said that I will reply in writing, but my first reaction is that my objection to this increased procedure remains. The Chamber will be presented with an AMvB. The Chamber declares by 50% that it considers that it should not be regulated by AMvB but by law and then we begin the legal procedure. I do more justice to the view of the Chamber if I don't do a heavy front, but a regular one. If the Chamber disagrees with half plus one, i.e. the simple majority, in the ordinary front, it is out of the question. Then I don't have to start legal proceedings anymore. In my opinion, I am doing more justice with the ordinary procedure of hanging, and I am more quickly responding to the wishes of the Chamber than with this increased suspension procedure. I will test my reasoning and let the Chamber know this week whether I am sticking to the advice I have just given, namely to discourage this amendment. Mrs. Vos says I've agreed to do scenario studies. I will look into what commitments I have made and what commitments I have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u177	I thank the Minister for his presence this evening. The vote on the bill, the amendments and the motions will take place next Tuesday.
