ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u1	Once again, I would like to welcome the Secretary of State, like the people in the public gallery. I give the floor to Mrs Ypma as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. For 200,000 children an exciting and important moment has come: the transition from primary school to secondary school. Yesterday I was at the National Parents' Council, where many phone calls from worried parents come in. Of course, it's just the tip of the iceberg, but for example Johan's mother said that high school wants to refuse him because his scores in the sixth and seventh grade were so low. At that time, however, his father was dying. In the 8th grade, he recovered and that recovery gave rise to the teacher's advice. Or take the girl who's had a lot of language retardation, but she's got rid of it in the last two years of elementary school. However, it is calculated on group 6 and 7 key data. That makes me angry. Kids who scramble, late bloomers, fighters, deserve opportunities. The teachers and masters of primary school give a school advice because they have gotten to know the child well in eight years. They use the apprenticeship tracking system, observation and test data for all subjects, as well as data on work posture, collaboration and so on. Of course, something goes wrong with that school advice. That is why we have also arranged for students who score higher on the final, the Cito test, than the school advice, to have the benefit of the doubt. For example, the Cito test has become a good second opinion to discover under-advisation in the case of children who, for example, are under-assessed by the teacher because of their background. In this way, we give children maximum opportunities and ensure that education remains the engine of emancipation. It helps primary schools to get information about the school careers of former pupils so that they can improve their school advice and maintain quality. My first question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether he is prepared to ensure that this information, which is already being collected, is also sent to primary school. The school advice thus gives young people the right to admission, but there are also secondary schools that are fooled by this and that require additional admission requirements. Just by not looking at where one's cradle stands but by giving children a chance based on their progress and the judgment of elementary school, we ensure that children get opportunities to grow. My second question to the Secretary of State is therefore how he is implementing my motion, with broad support, which states that schools that require additional requirements must be dealt with. The Education Inspectorate must sanction and fine these schools. After all, they in particular deprive the late bloomers of the chance to get the best out of themselves. What sanctions has been imposed by the Secretary of State? Wouldn't it be better if secondary education didn't request data until after admission, that's my third question. Parents who are stuck between high school and elementary school who say this shouldn't count at all for admission, don't know the rules. My fourth question is therefore how the Secretary of State has communicated on this matter so far. Is he prepared to set up a contact point at the inspection where parents can go if it turns out that schools set thresholds and refuse children, despite the school advice? A hotline with perseverance. A hotline that intervenes directly and can also act imperatively if the authorisation procedure in the region in question needs to be adapted for the whole region. Among us there may also be some late bloomers who have fortunately gotten opportunities thanks to a combined advice, for example havo/vwo. I think it is desirable for primary schools to be able to provide joint advice. I believe that we should always give children the opportunity to get the best out of themselves. Therefore, combined advice should always lead the child's admission. If the Secretary of State agrees with me, that is my fifth question. Can he promise to communicate this clearly to primary schools and parents? I see Mrs Siderius has a question to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u3	I can see that, but I suggest you finish your speech first. After that, Mrs Siderius will have the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u4	Schools should be penalised by the education inspection if they do not offer young people sufficient opportunities. However, the inspection still penalises the drop-off of pupils. Is the Secretary of State prepared to send a proposal to the House of Representatives within three months on the new method of assessment for schools, in which drainage is no longer penalised by joint advice but schools are stimulated to retain young people at their influx level? Finally, the question whether the Secretary of State is prepared to come forward soon after the summer of 2015 with an evaluation of this new legislation including the placement methods. In my opinion, this is a leak in the regional agreements which give schools in secondary education unlimited freedom to conduct admission policies. Of course, they must never invalidate the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mrs Ypma's input raises questions on two issues. First of all, about the hotline. During the inspection, parents may report if a secondary school also requires other test results, such as the Cito test, or information from the apprenticeship follow-up system. I notice that the Labour Party has been calling for a hotline over and over again in the past period. She does this in youth care and appropriate education, and now again in school advice. Every time, we need a hotline. Would it not be better to ensure that policies are properly and carefully designed so that all these hotlines are not needed at all? We're still drowning in all these hotlines.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you very much for this interruption. I fully agree with Mrs Siderius, but in this case the legislation is very clear. However, the examination of the inspection shows that one of the eleven methods of placement was immediately in order. So ten of the eleven placement modes were out of order. The schools didn't accept the school advice directly. Hopefully they'll be modified. I'd like to hear that from the Secretary of State. The regulation is therefore in order, but it is not being properly implemented. You have to call it in somewhere. I believe it should be possible to report this to the inspection, but the inspection should also be able to intervene immediately. If not, the follow-up procedure will continue and children will not be admitted to the school of their choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u7	There should be no need for reporting points for parents or schools to report policy gaps. This is just sticking a little Band-Aid. I notice that Mrs Ypma states in the newspaper that we must force schools to comply with this. The Secretary of State says that this is not legally possible, because a school must go wrong before it can be sanctioned. What measures does the Labour Party see in order to actually enforce this and sanction the schools? A hotline is still a bit of padding and keeping wet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u8	With all due respect, I've tried every possible way to make the law and regulation as good as possible. I have tabled amendments and motions on the basis of which sanctions can be sanctioned. There was broad support for this in the Chamber, including from Mrs Siderius. I note, however, that not only are the placement methods not correct, but also that 12 out of the 17 schools examined by the inspection do not lead the school advice, but ask for additional data. That's not how we set the law. I therefore call for intervention on the one hand and for misunderstandings to be reported by parents, but also by secondary schools that respect the law properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u9	I'm gonna keep going at this point. Mrs Ypma says we need to intervene now. What action should the Labour Party take? What legal basis does she see for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u10	The legal basis is the law. Schools must comply with the law. We have laid down very clearly in the law that children can only be admitted on the basis of the school advice, unless the Cito score is higher, because that is the admission. That's the legal basis. I have already appointed the concrete measures I propose in my first term. I believe that schools should be sanctioned and possibly fined. I want this to happen quickly. In the meantime, children should not suffer. The inspection must have perseverance to ensure that children are admitted if the school does not want to do so in the first instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u11	Finally, Mrs Siderius.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u12	"Sanction and fine," that's tough muscle language from Mrs. Ypma. That is not legally possible at all. This can only be done if a school really fails and requests the Cito test or other information from the apprenticeship tracking system. In my view, therefore, all kinds of empty promises are being made here that the Labour Party cannot really live up to. How does the Labour Party intend to sanction schools at this time, today?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u13	I don't want schools getting caught up in rules. Apparently it's a little election time. In the documents, and also in the inspection investigation, it is clear that schools do not comply with the law that we have established here with each other. Schools need to be dealt with. That is why the Secretary of State had the inspection carried out. I wholeheartedly support him in that. I am still concerned about the data provided by that investigation. That is why I ask the Secretary of State to carry out my motion, which has been widely adopted. This will enable schools to be sanctioned and fined.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u14	Mrs Ypma says that the law is actually very clear, but I dare to doubt it. The law does not specify a date on which the educational report must be sent to the school. Isn't there a problem there? The educational report contains all kinds of test results. This is important for the continuous learning lines. This will be sent before a child is admitted to secondary education. Shouldn't we clarify that in the law? Now we are actually offering the schools in the law the opportunity to look at other things than just the advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u15	Mr Klaver really has a point there. The law is clear. We have said: we are not going to close everything down in the law, because we want primary schools and secondary schools to make agreements among themselves about a good flow of children. In practice, however, we see that this is being abused. High school calls for all kinds of data too early. They do not select children sec on the school advice for vmbo, havo, vwo or practical education, but on the basis of all kinds of underlying data. There's actually a trust problem. I agree with Mr Klaver that it is interesting to see if we can ensure that schools do not deliver this data until after registration. So I'd like to pass that question on to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u16	Clear. I am glad that Mrs Ypma also points out that there is a problem there and that we should have the debate together on whether it is a solution to postpone the date until after the adoption of a child. I will make proposals for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u17	I am surprised at the use of the word "confidence problem" by Mrs Ypma. There is indeed a problem of confidence, but that is a problem for Mrs Ypma, the PvdA and all the other parties who have decided to abolish the Cito test and leave the school advice to lead. This means that this beautiful, objective measuring instrument has been destroyed. Doesn't Mrs Ypma think she's incredibly interfering in how schools are? She interferes from the Lower House in an incredibly rigid way with the professional judgment of schools and teachers, by putting parents in position and setting up committees. I believe that there are going to be intervention committees and now all kinds of hotlines. Why did Mrs. Ypma go so far as to turn that beautiful, objective measuring instrument upside down?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thank you for this interruption. Of course, we have not abolished the Cito test or final test. Mr Beertema knows that very well. We said that the final test was once conceived as a second opinion. The final test is intended to be the second objective measuring instrument where there is under-advisation and where the master or teacher has misjudged it. That happens in about 10% of the children. This gives the child optimum opportunities in secondary education. That is why we have also laid down in the law that, if that Cito score is higher, children get the benefit of the doubt. Education is on earth to offer children opportunities. I think we've secured that very well in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u19	All this may be true, but in recent weeks, of course, a lot of articles have been published in the newspapers. Mrs. Ypma knows that, too. Titles alone: "Fourth parents fear wrong school advice," "There is a lot of disagreement between parents, primary and secondary schools about school advice" and "Middle schools want more guidance on school advice." Teachers are put under pressure by highly educated, assertive, well-beaked parents. The teacher and the school can't compete with that at all. That's how it's recommended. How does Mrs. Ypma feel about that? Doesn't she think that she doesn't slap the teacher's professionalism in an incredible way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u20	No. That's the teacher's professionalism I'm putting at the center. Teachers have eyes on the child; they have seen such a child at school for eight years. Teachers can look at children, estimate what they can handle, estimate their growth. They're not just looking at key data, because you can't test everything and the Cito test is just testing language and arithmetic, so not history, geography and all kinds of other things. So that teacher can make a broad assessment. We're putting the teacher at the center. That is why I also want children to be admitted purely on the basis of the school advice, not on the basis of honking data and certainly not the group 6 or 7.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u21	Mr. Chairman. I am very pleased that this year's school advice has become leading the transition from primary school to secondary school. D66 was one of the driving forces behind this result. Because the school advice is leading, a test is no longer considered, but really the development of the child. So the plan is good, but its implementation needs to be improved, as it turns out. A number of problems have arisen in recent months. There is uncertainty about the procedures for establishing and applying the primary school advice. For parents, it is unclear how they can object if they disagree with the school advice, or if their child is not admitted to secondary school at the level that the opinion indicates. Admission rules are incorrectly applied; for example, secondary schools require additional information or, for example, additional tests. Here and there, advice is issued in accordance with the procedures for registering in secondary schools. The fact that secondary schools demand additional information on primary school advice is a sign of distrust. Where I, and many here now, advocate trust in education, it turns out that sometimes education is not quite in order. That's what we need to worry about. Regional agreements can help to improve that confidence, but of course such agreements must never be contrary to the law. IQ tests, additional tests and data from the apprenticeship follow-up system should never become a criterion for admission to secondary school; you can assume that the primary school has taken these matters into account in the opinion. It is, of course, important for secondary schools to be able to obtain this information in the end, but for that I would like to join the debate on the interruption of a moment ago. Of course, this information must be provided in the end, since it can be in the best interests of the child, but only after admission. Also, agreements on the exclusion of double opinions should not be possible. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? If so, what exactly is the Secretary of State going to do to enforce this law? Is he going to impose sanctions on schools? Is he gonna force schools to take kids according to their school advice? And if so, how? The fact that high schools are distrustful is partly due to the system they are in. The inspection looks at the yield in the substructure. When many children drain to a lower level, the school gets the "weak school" predicate, with all the consequences. The feedback of the under-building return to primary schools would be very good, since schools could improve their advice. But if this is linked to funding and regulatory pressure for secondary schools, it creates perverse incentives. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State, preferably an extensive one. There is a lot of uncertainty about the role of parents. We're talking about "elementary school advice." I'm asking the Secretary of State who that advice is for. Isn't it just a decision? If we all find that, we must also bear the consequences. If it is actually a decision, you may offer an opening to strengthen the position of parents in relation to an opinion. So who's this advice for? For clarity's sake, I'm definitely not looking for legalization, but I'm looking for a position for parents in case things don't go well. After all, parents are the last ones to truly stand up for the interests of their children. I am thinking, for example, of the Disputes Committee on appropriate education. We could put them in a position to settle the plea in this kind of situation, whether it is about the opinion or about admission to secondary education, with a quick and preferably binding ruling. I do not believe that the government is capable of serving every child on a tailor-made basis. The National Parents' Council calls for a temporary intervention procedure. I wonder how the Secretary of State looks at this whole thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u22	I always get the picture of D66 and the Labour Party who have turned their necks on a nice system, who have put something in place for that and who now drive a car that is broken on all sides. The wheels roll off and everything has to be repaired along the way. That's a strange way of operating! Now the parents are even more placed in the schools. They already have so much to say. In many schools the parents are almost impossible to get out of school. Now they get a formal position of D66. That party now intervenes very deeply in the way schools think they should work. They're gonna get those parents again. How does Mr Van Meenen view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u23	Unlike a PVV man, the life of a D66 man is sometimes complicated. We need to think about the situation we had and the situation we're getting. For the PVV it is simple: a child can be translated into a number. Jan is 537, Marietje is 542 and that further determines their future. I don't look at kids like that, and I never looked at kids like that. With the bill that we co-submitted and designed at the time, we are trying to do the best we can for children. That didn't happen in the old system. I understand very well that in this Chamber the burden of proof always lies with the new, but we must also look closely at the failure of the old. The failure of the old meant that the Cito test was too decisive and that much went wrong. Now the opinion is leading and the test is still there, and Mrs Ypma has just interpreted this as a corrective mechanism for under-advisation, which is particularly common among vulnerable young people. So I'm in favour of that. If everyone were just to abide by this law, there would be no problem. That will not happen, however. In my speech, I went into this in detail. We must intervene in this, because we want schools and school leaders to comply with laws. I assume that is what Mr Beertema wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u24	Of course I do. For a PVV person, life may be very simple, from the speech of the spokesperson of D66 I understand that we cannot think, but we often like it when there is a clear limit. D66 has not only a kind of norm phobia with regard to education. Standards always shift. People who are guilty of something are never really guilty. There are actually no terrorists, but a bit of lost spirits and stuff. However, let us not go further in this respect. I say, just let there be a standard. There is no standard in primary education and it must be there, because secondary education is entitled to that standard and children and parents are entitled to that standard. D66 puts the parents right here next to all the teachers. Their judgment is going to weigh equally heavily. That's not working for a teacher, is it? Isn't that a huge vote of no confidence towards all the teaching staff?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u25	No, I'm not. I leave a lot of what Mr Bertema has said to you, but let me walk. However, I do not put the parent next to the teacher, but next to the child. If everything goes well, the primary school will take the parent and the child into the whole process that eventually leads to the advice. Then it is obvious that this is the opinion. In the ideal world, the secondary school would then say: it has been well thought out; it has been followed well for eight years, and that is what we are taking over. That situation is envisaged by this law. I think there are two things that are wrong. Parents sometimes do not feel sufficiently involved in the preparation of primary school advice. In a number of cases, this opinion is also too late and the notification has already started. At the point where things go wrong, I want to put the parents as those who ultimately stand up for the interests of students when they are harmed. If the placement is not carried out properly and not in accordance with the opinion, then I would also like to put them in a position, without preferably seeking legal advice; I am not looking for the latter, but the Secretary of State will undoubtedly indicate how he looks at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u26	Mr. Chairman. Over the past few weeks there have been many reports in the media that secondary schools are circumventing school advice. There are secondary schools asking for old test results from the educational report or making an extra intelligence test. Some schools even ask parents for financial compensation for these intelligence tests. The National Parents' Council and the sector organisation received many calls from concerned parents asking if these test results still influence the advice. In short, there is uncertainty and the sector is actually opposed to a wish widely shared here in the Chamber. The school advice of the primary school determines the admission. Period. This is also sensible as far as my group is concerned, because schools and their teachers have no other knowledge of the strengths and weaknesses of pupils and their development. However, the laws and regulations still leave room for doubt and interpretation in secondary schools. In the region and at local level, schools can agree on sharing additional data from children or having children do an intelligence test. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that, in the light of recent experience, this has led to undesirable consequences? Does the Secretary of State agree with me that the current laws and regulations give more clarity than clarity to parents and schools? The educational report, which provides insight into, among other things, the test and learning results of a child, is sent to secondary schools at various times; this is also done at the same time as the school advice. This leads to relaxation, because secondary schools draw conclusions from these results or doubt about the school advice. Some schools are therefore going to bypass school advice. The Chamber has said that the advice of the primary school teachers must have been in charge of such a child for many years. Now, however, there is a kind of peer review coming through the vo-school, which looks at whether the advice is consistent with the learning outcomes in the child's file. I do not think that is what the Chamber intended when it indicated that the school advice should be leading. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that it would be better for the educational report to be sent to secondary school only after the student's admission? In my view, this will prevent secondary schools from putting pressure on parents and primary schools to adapt the school advice. This does not fit in with the confidence that GroenLinks has in the teachers and primary schools. I would like a clear response from the Secretary of State on this point. Finally, I come to the drain. More has already been said about it. We cannot unilaterally shift responsibility to the vo-schools. It also has to do with incentives for things that politics itself imposes on these schools. I notice high school's anxious about elementary school advice. This is due to the fact that secondary schools are dealt with by the cabinet, by the inspection, on the so-called drain. If pupils arrive at a lower level or remain seated, the Education Inspectorate gives a disadvantage to the school. GroenLinks would like to know about the implementation of the Ypma motion. The Secretary of State is in consultation with the sector, but how long is that going to take? The problem is clear and repeatedly underlined by the sector. As far as I am concerned, this rule of return goes straight away, because it creates perverse effects and is not in the best interests of the child. Hopefully the Secretary of State will come to that understanding now and delete this rule.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u27	Mr. Chairman. The primary school advice is a leading factor in the admission of pupils to secondary education. After all, the teachers in primary school know the student best. In addition, there is another objective fact: the final test. The primary school should reconsider the previous advice if the final test score predicts a higher level of the student. For example, parents can rely on their child to receive the most appropriate follow-up education. The law is clear, but of course it must also be respected. The Secretary of State also found that almost all regional placement methods do not fully comply with the rules. The National Parents' Council has a laundry list of concrete examples of schools that ignore primary school advice or impose additional requirements, such as obtaining test results or having their own tests done. In his letter to the Chamber, the Secretary of State states that he does not yet have sufficient grounds to act as a sanction because the pupils will not actually be refused at these schools until March or April. I have two questions for the Secretary of State. Does he see any reason why schools that do not want to comply with the law should, through the inspection, already draw attention to their legal obligation to follow the primary school advice? Where can the parents, who unexpectedly find themselves in such a situation? It must be avoided that their child does not have the educational opportunities it really deserves. Unfortunately, many vo-schools are keen on all these test results because they want at all costs to prevent them from being paid for by the inspection on the indicator'substrate efficiency'. If more than half of the students go to the HAVO with a HAVO/VWO advice, this leads to a negative assessment of this indicator. This is also the reason why primary schools are being put under pressure by vo-schools or by means of placement methods to provide single school advice. They therefore no longer give a Havo/Vwo advice, but a Havo advice. This leads to less chance of a minor inspection minus, and that while we still want to challenge the students to develop their talents to the maximum. I have three questions about this. 1. Why does the Secretary of State not adjust the indicator of underbuilding efficiency so that schools cannot be paid for if pupils reach one of those two levels of education of that mixed advice? 2. Why does the Secretary of State accept that placement methods prescribe single school advice when we have here invented that primary schools have the right to provide mixed advice? 3. Does the Secretary of State agree with the CDA that the admission to category gymnasium should be subject to a single vwo opinion? The CDA recognizes that primary schools cannot predict the level of education they will eventually master for all 11- or 12-year-olds. A mixed school advice is a blessing for some students, but that would be a broad or extended secondary class for these students as well. Mr. Chairman. I can see that Mrs Ypma is on the interrupting microphone, but I still have a very small piece of text that continues on this. Unfortunately, that broad secondary class is slowly dying out, and that while the Education Council has made a warm plea in two reports for that broad secondary class. The Education Council stated that too strict and too early selection in the transition from the po to the vo may reduce the chances of late bloomers and pupils from lower socio-economic environments in further education. I would like to hear the Secretary of State's view on the future of the broad secondary school, asking him to explicitly address the opinions on this issue of the Education Council of 2010 and 2014.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u28	I broadly agree with Mr Rog's speech, but I am surprised at one point. Did I hear him say that categorial gymnasia is allowed to make demands, while they also simply provide preparatory scientific education?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u29	It is good that Mrs Ypma is asking for that clarification, because I did not say that. I have said that my group has doubts as to whether category gymnasia can also ask for a single vwo opinion. Or should they also hire students who receive a HAVO/VWO advice? I would like to hear a clear answer from the Secretary of State. For this gymnasium too, the primary school advice is therefore leading. However, I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether a single VWO opinion can be requested. That is what we would consider real for this level of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u30	I hear an exception for the category gymnasia. I'm surprised. I think Mr Rog and I agree that we do not want a white hill of refuge. We do not want us to know our culture on gymnasia, with our own collective agreement and their own directors. That's what categoral gymnasia strives for. I would like to ask Mr Rog one last time if he is sure that he only wants to make an exception for the gymnasium, namely that children must necessarily have a vwo advice, and not a havo/vwo advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u31	My argument is that we know for many students what level of education they will soon be at. Those students receive a simple advice. Sometimes it's vmbo, sometimes it's havo and sometimes it's vwo. And that's fine. My plea is correct in order to restore these double advices as well. For some students it is simply less clear. So I want mavo/havo- and havo/vwo-advices. At the gymnasium the highest level of secondary education is given. I say on behalf of my group that I think it is perfectly logical that a single VWO advice should be the admission requirement in these schools. I thought you were. However, there is uncertainty about it. I think it is right for us to be clear about this from the Secretary of State in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u32	A little further on this point. I understand Mr Rog's reasoning, but I think there are a lot of people in the Netherlands who have successfully completed the gymnasium, while they had a Havo/vwo advice. I think that the drop-off in this category will be somewhat greater than in the case of young people with a single opinion, but it is not clear to me what Mr Rog wants. Does he want to get rid of the double advice for access to the gymnasium, or not, and is he only interested in the view of the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u33	I have indicated that single or mixed advice is allowed at primary school and that it is up to secondary education to do the right thing with it. For the gymnasium there is always the possibility to allow students with a HAVO/VWO advice. However, I would like to point out that I understand this type of education when such a category gymnasium asks for a single VWO advice. I say that in the interests of the students. After all, if you're on a categoral gymnasium and you're draining, you have to leave school. I'd like to avoid that in the interests of the student. This is without prejudice to the fact that category gymnasiums keep the space to hire havo/vwo students.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u34	It is a very relevant point, since it may lead to certain gymnasiums being given the right by Mr Rog to ask for the single opinion and to refuse access to the pupils with a HAVO/VWO advice. In that sense, it is very relevant what is happening here. I'm not that far, because I think we're doing some kids a little short on this. Maybe it would help if we did something about the yield in the substructure. We could abolish the allowance, just to speak in understandable terms, thus taking away a reason to refuse children at the gymnasium. Does Mr Rog agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u35	I have said about the drop-off and the underbuilding efficiency that the CDA proposes that, in a mixed opinion, schools should no longer be confronted with minions of the inspection if more than half of the pupils arrive at the lower level. We have a motion for that, too. As far as gymnasia is concerned, I understand that Mr Van Meenen is going to be working well in his own right in response to the reaction of the Secretary of State, Mr O'Donnell, to what he thinks. I think that's very good. At least the CDA has a clear position on it. I wonder if it will be allowed at this time. I can tell from the category gymnasium that they need this. I think it would be very good if we could make this clear to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u36	We know Mr Rog as someone who approaches education policy from a pedagogy point of view. That connects us. However, I wonder whether he does not add a little water to the wine with regard to the admission requirements for category gymnasia. Of course, the SGP is never in favour of watering down. If you think consistently from the opportunities for children, it is obvious that the students who come up with a HAVO/VWO school advice and have a positive advice for the gymnasium should be given the chance to make it come true? Inherent to that is that we have to get rid of the settlement culture with lovers. That kind of crazy isn't part of it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u37	One final reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u38	The student with a havo/vwo advice who gets the chance at the category gymnasium does not get a lover as far as I'm concerned when he flows to the havo. I just turned that in, and I'm gonna file a motion for that. I merely point out that it is precisely in the interests of the educational development of the child that the category gymnasium comes to the conclusion, in a good conversation with the primary school, that this student should be given a HAVO/VWO advice or not. That is the possibility I want to offer that category gymnasium in the best interests of the child because that child would otherwise have to leave the school at the end of the course. I would prefer to go to a broad school community with Havo and Vwo, where that child has several opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u39	It really has to be short, Mr Rog, because I notice that a lot of sentences are repeated over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u40	It's also a very convenient point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u41	Of course!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u42	Such a child can of course go to a school community that also offers gymnasium, although not a categoral gymnasium. It is a question of whether these parents have the right to claim that that child will end up in that school if there is advice and if there is indeed positive support and opportunities for the child. I don't think that's a no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u43	If both the vo-school and the primary school actually see these opportunities for that child, then there is no answer and that child will be admitted. When there is reasonable doubt, the category gymnasium can, in our view, indeed demand a single vwo-advisement. Soon we will hear from the Secretary of State whether that is the practice or not, because that could be the case. In any case, that would be supported by the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u44	Mr. Chairman. It is good that we are discussing the value of the school advice today. It is good that the underlying documents underline the expertise of primary school teachers in drawing up the school advice. The SGP advocates that these primary schools really take up the space that is being offered and do not allow themselves to be re-wrapped by all kinds of external demands and expectations. A few questions about that. Can the Secretary of State confirm that schools are not obliged to participate in regional placement methods? What does the Secretary of State think about the role played so far by the Cito final test in placement methods being often taken over by other tests? Does he recognise with the sector councils that it would be a pity and an undesirable development if there were a narrow focus through the placement modes? It is important that primary school advice is of high quality. The tone of the inspection report is positive, but the inspection nevertheless identifies a number of improvement points. For example, pupils from lower social environments are on average more often given lower advice on equal scores. On the other hand, many schools also feel pressured by parents to give higher advice. What does the Secretary of State do and what opportunities does he see to take action by supporting schools to really go for the substantive advice, thus neutralising the "strange" influence as much as possible? Vo-schools should not be unnecessarily affected by advice from primary schools or inspection standards. We have two questions to ask. What are the possibilities for schools to deviate from elementary school advice when a primary school does not follow a consistent line of advice and when the conversation with this school does not offer a solace? Are vo-schools then hanged by obvious misses in advising primary schools, which is also a possibility? The second question I can link to this is the following. Why is the current standard of drainage compared to primary school advice necessary to critically question schools for the development of their pupils population? The SGP would like to see a less static and a more educational model. We have already paid attention to this in several interrupting times this morning. Education policy must be tested against educational values. Policy is not good if it is not enough to pass the test of educational values. That's a pretty simple theorem, but one with a big impact. Furthermore, you should not want to abolish the double advice. If you want to think from children's opportunities as the pedagogical principle that connects us all with our different philosophical principles, then you have to offer opportunities. You don't have to have a settlement culture in the direction of so-called drain. No, these kids are developing all the time. What seems possible one year may turn out to be blocked in another year. Well, the school must have the room to choose the right solution for the children, without being taken into account. I therefore urge you to give a much more prominent place to the pedagogical line in our education policy. Then we'll have other discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u45	Mr. Chairman. The transition to high school is an important moment in life for many students. Finally they step into high school and learn to discover the world little by little. The level of pupils has been the subject of discussion between parents and schools since discovering Rome. Teachers at primary school see the school career of a child and are able to assess what a child can handle, as research also shows. Parents sometimes see rightly, sometimes unjustly, that their child is being sent to a level that is too low or too high. It is therefore not surprising that high schools prefer to have hard, predictive figures on paper. However, the question is whether this can be done with tests and tests. My party doesn't think so. The SP Group therefore welcomes the statement by the Secretary of State that only the teacher's school advice can lead the primary school. After all, a child is more than a result on a test. Proza in the placement methods, however, shows that not all schools have fully understood what the intention is. For example, we encounter texts in the placement methods that require Cito scores and results from the apprenticeship tracking system. What, according to the Secretary of State, is the reason that high schools want to see these test results so badly? In the eyes of the SP, that's the billing culture of the inspection. Mr Zevenbergen, director of the Lebanon Lyceum in Rotterdam, agrees with this. When too many students are discharged, a school receives many negative points and in the long run it is classified as a weak school. High school benefits from some pressure on primary education to get those test results anyway. Thus, the perverse stimulus of the keys remains in place. The SP doesn't want that. The Secretary of State says not to hesitate in situations where it is obvious that a school does not comply with the laws and regulations. The question is, of course, whether the Secretary of State is already investigating. Or does he just sit back and sit behind his desk and wait for a parent or school to come forward? Can you take legal action at this time? The Secretary of State's letter says this can't be done, but what could you do at the moment, except seek out the conversation with the schools? Is it or is it not true that agreements can be made in good consultation between secondary schools and primary schools to also send information from the apprenticeship follow-up system or less recent test results? There are several reports about this in the media. Another problem is that final primary school advice is often not yet available, while secondary school registration procedures are already ongoing. This makes it sometimes desirable for parents to register their children at a secondary school before final advice is received. Students can only apply to one school in principle. Is it a suggestion to agree with secondary schools that the registration procedure will run from 1 March and not earlier? After all, 1 March is the date on which the final school advice must be received. For example, each pupil has the final school advice before the enrollment procedure starts in secondary school. From the National Parents' Council, a preliminary primary school advice is advocated, which would previously be provided in Group 8. The SP has a lot of doubts about that. We believe that, if this is given, it could lead to the risk of further discussion. Today we would like to hear the State Secretary's opinion on this proposal from the National Parents' Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u46	Mr. Chairman. According to the member Ypma of the Labour Party, it would be undesirable for secondary education to look for alternatives to check the primary school advice. She won't let me. It should not be D66 and all those other parties who have agreed to abolish the Cito test as a matching instrument for the vmbo, havo, vwo, gymnasium. But by lifting the final test, secondary schools are in uncertainty about what a student who reports can and knows. I find it strange that Mr Ypma is exactly the applicant for this debate, while her amendment has laid the foundations for the end of the Cito test by making the school advice the sole guiding principle. Secondary schools are for the first time obliged to follow the advice of the primary school this year. Only a school advice from the teacher in the 8th grade counts. High schools, however, want more guidance, which the PVV can understand. With the disappearance of that beautiful Cito test, secondary education is looking for alternatives to get information, but none of that is allowed anymore. For the PVV, the Cito test was and is a unique endpoint, a very important, even crucial element in the continuous learning and testing line. In Rutte I, the VVD shared this crown jewel because that was it still with us. The VVD and the PVV endorsed the need to provide objective information on the abilities of pupils in primary education, first of all for children and parents and secondly for further education. That is very important for the student and the parent, because wrong matching not only leads to annoying penalty points for a school. It doesn't work that cynical in education. It does count, but there are many more things. It leads to a chaotic learning line, to drain, to stay seated and thus to disappointment and delay in the development of talents. The PVV has always stressed that the final test is a nice matching instrument for further education and that it is not only up to the teacher to form a school advice. Teachers deal with assertive parents. Often these parents are highly educated. Often unwanted pressure from parents is admitted. There are many studies that confirm that. It's very difficult for a teacher to resist that pressure from the parents, no matter how professional he or she is. A teacher at a school states that there are parents who disagree with the advice. She said that until recently she could fall back on the Cito score to justify her decision. Then she said, "Look, on the test, he also scored at vmbo level." We can't do that in the new system anymore. For this very reason, the PVV argues not only to allow the teacher's advice to be leading, however important it is, but to give the final test the central role, supplemented by the school's advice as an additional explanation. Today, D66 advocates opening the school's door even more widely than he already stands for parents. At D66 the parents are at least as important as the teacher's professionalism when it comes to advice. D66 wants to establish an intervention procedure if the parents are dissatisfied with the VMBO advice. Unfortunately: if parents are dissatisfied, it will always be a vmbo advice. It's gonna be really crowded on that committee. It gets very quiet on the vmbos when D66 gets his way. The expertise and status of the teacher and the school are greatly undermined by the D66 educational party. Secondary education wants an objective school advice rather than a value assessment that may be formulated under any pressure from parents, may be motivated by sympathy or antipathy towards the student, or may even be formulated on the basis of persistent prejudices, for example in the case of immigrant pupils. An external, objective test should ensure transparency, thus creating a standardized image of our students. Without hard external scrutiny, no institution works well, says prof. Jaap Dronkers. The PVV warned about this in March 2013. We then indicated that if we shifted the decline time of the final test, secondary education itself would start to test and find ways to measure the level of the student. That was widely denied by all the parties here, but now there is no denying it. We had a fine, solid car in the form of the Cito-key, with here and there absolutely beauty errors but those were easy to fix. All parties that have abolished the Cito test as a matching instrument have opted for a total renewal. They have now saddled us with a new car that turns out to be a wreck that must be permanently accompanied by the AWW but that is not nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u47	I think there's still a final. It doesn't have to be a Cito key, but there's still a final key. In fact, it is mandatory in contrast to the past. However, I am now talking about what Mr Beertema says about what D66 would mean for the position of the lecturer. We were going to undermine it. I think it's exactly the other way around. With this bill, we put the teacher and the school in a much more position. Does Mr Beertema agree with me that the opinion is still partly based on up to 40 Cito tests taken by a student during his school career? Then why does the last one have to go with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u48	The Cito test is still part of the entire Cito system, the whole apprenticeship follow-up system in primary education. That is a very nice system but the difference is that it is no longer leading. What's leading now is the teacher's judgment. Mr Van Meenen of D66 and Mrs Ypma recognize this, because they are not going to set up all kinds of committees and hotlines for schools that want it all to be different. So it doesn't work. Their own system doesn't work. They are already working in the garage to take all kinds of emergency measures to make it work, but that is a shame. We had something beautiful, but we don't have it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u49	It is exactly as Mr Beertema says. What's leading is, in the end, the teacher's judgment. I do not understand that D66 would be a party that wants to put the teacher aside, precisely not, because the teacher is put completely in position. That hotline, or the dispute committee that is already in place, is intended for nothing but for the situations in which schools do not handle it properly, for example if the advice is drawn up in a careless way or if secondary schools do not comply with it. Does Mr Beertema agree with me that action should be taken against this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u50	We had a nice tool that made sense but we now have a system where 45% of parents value the Cito test score very much, even if it does not count for the school advice, a quarter of parents fear that the school advice is misjudged, 20% of parents fear that school advice is underestimated, and 4% fear that school advice is overrated by the teacher. 39% of the parents are going to object. These are the percentages faced by all those committees that have to carry out remedial work. They're gonna be very busy. We created a bureaucratic monster. We owe this to D66 and Mrs Ypma of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u51	Mr. Chairman. The new law states that the teacher's advice in primary education is leading. This is a good starting point, but there is also a risk in it, because teachers also have unconscious assumptions about the learning capacity of a student, who do not always have to be right. That can be detrimental to a student's ability to undo it. Research shows that teachers are often under-advised. The report Elementary School Advice and Ethnicity of the municipality of Amsterdam shows that a third of the students receive lower primary school advice than you can expect on the basis of a Cito test. That's a frighteningly high percentage. Then you're not talking about an incident, you're talking about a large-scale structural deficiency. That is why we propose to strengthen the interests and position of the pupil and the parents, so that students can make full use of their talents and potentials. We have two questions for the Secretary of State. The first question is in line with what Mr Van Meenen has proposed, namely to allow pupils and parents to appeal against the low level of school advice to an independent body. Mr Van Meenen already mentioned the Disputes Committee's appropriate education. We ask the Secretary of State to see which independent body is best placed to do so. My second question is to carry out a recurring investigation into under-advisation, so that this problem is monitored in a structural manner. I like to quote Minister Asscher. As an Amsterdam alderman, he said the following about under-advisation. If you don't make the most of it now, it's gonna be really hard to catch up later. The teachers have to get the best out of a child, whether it's yellow, black or white. We therefore call on Secretary of State Dekker to tackle the problem of under-advisation with great urgency, so that every child receives the education he is entitled to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u52	I would like to thank Mr Kuzu for this speech on children with under-advisation, because I share that with him wholeheartedly. My question to him is: are you aware that we have included something special in the central final test bill? If a child scores better on the final test than is initially indicated on the basis of the school advice, the school advice should be reconsidered. That must be done in consultation with the parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u53	I know the new law, and I've read this. I think that Mrs Straus of the VVD has also read the reports in the newspaper in recent years, which says that a lot of parents have difficulty and problems with the fact that under-advisation is taking place, because there is very uncertainty in the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u54	I understand that, because we are only starting this year. Once again, I am happy that you address this point as such here, because it is indeed a problem. But we've already given that a place with this law. I do not hear from you whether you have any confidence in the way in which we have given it a place and what you might want extra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u55	The new law states that the teacher's advice is leading, as I said. That is a good starting point, but at the same time we can see that there is a great deal of uncertainty about the system and that parents have little faith in it. Then it can all look very nice on paper, but it does not work in the execution. That is why we are holding this debate together. I am therefore curious to hear the answers of the Secretary of State to our questions on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u56	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the news that schools in secondary education do not trust the primary school's advice and test students for admission. Let me be clear straight away: an admission test is not allowed under the new legislation. I find it striking that this is a question of education. Over the last few weeks, I have often been told that education was no longer able to take a test, and that by imposing tests, politics demonstrated that it had no confidence in education. We must now note that education itself is introducing a new test. Should we therefore conclude that the field of education does not seem to have confidence in itself and in each other? Over the past few years, hard work has been done to get the basics of our education in order. From this school year onwards, there has been a compulsory apprenticeship follow-up system and a final test at each primary school, and in recent years there has been considerable efforts to improve language and mathematics, all to ensure that pupils reach the right level at the end of primary school and that during the entire primary school period the pupil, parent and teacher can see at what level the pupil is at. By making the use of the apprenticeship follow-up system compulsory, the school advice is not just an opinion of one teacher at one time. It's an advice based on a school career of eight years. If schools are serious about this, students simply get good and appropriate advice. Schools in secondary education who now indicate that they wish to take an admission test have little confidence in the school advice. One of the reasons for this is that they feel that the inspection is too rigorous if pupils fail to reach the level of advice. The Chamber has recognised this problem and has almost unanimously supported Mrs Ypma's motion on this point. What is the situation with regard to the investigation by the inspection, which is aimed at reducing the impact of drainage on the underlying efficiency? Is it perhaps not known in schools that the rules are going to be changed in this respect, and is that why it wants to use this admission test? Instead of using a test as an admission tool, when we agreed with the central final test a standard for the level at which children leave primary education, the VVD would much prefer to see elementary schools and schools in secondary education working much more together. They know exactly where the weaknesses lie in the primary schools where their pupils come from. The VVD would much prefer to see them enter into the conversation with each other to see where those weaknesses can be removed. For example, I know schools in secondary education which would very much like to use their teachers in primary education to give particular fields of study something extra for those students, and I also know primary schools that are open to that. However, the regulation of differences of competence precludes this. I've drawn attention to this before. At that time, I was given the undertaking that teachers from the Federal Republic of Germany would also be able to take part in the lectures. This would be possible as of 1 August 2016. Are we going to achieve this and how are we going to bring this to the attention of both p.o. schools and vo-schools? Like schools in the p.o. They take joint responsibility for a good connection between primary and secondary education. Then all children benefit from it. This is in the interests of the pupils, the parents and also the schools themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u57	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u58	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u59	Thank you for this promotion, Mr. Chairman, but with permission, I am only Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. At present, in many Dutch households, discussions at the kitchen table on the transition from primary education to secondary education are taking place. About 200,000 children are going to take the step this summer to what is called "the middle class." Open days of schools are currently busy. By 1 March at the latest, all pupils of the primary school received the advice. It states which type of school in secondary education he or she can go to after the summer. In April of this year, all pupils will also take a final test for the first time in all schools, which may still have an impact on the school advice, but on the way in which the final test was originally intended, namely as a second opinion, a second independent given. It is very important that pupils in secondary education reach the type of school and the level for which they are educated and interested. For a student, nothing is more demotivating than constantly feeling unable to cope with the level, or the other way around, constantly having the feeling of being insufficiently challenged. Good placement of the student, in the right type of school and at the right level, is therefore crucial. That's why we've all made elementary school advice lead again. We now know from a lot of research that elementary school advice is the best predictor, and the best means of success in secondary education. It's also a better tool than just what used to be called the Cito test. A lot of questions have been asked. I want to walk it by five blocks. I'll start by saying something about the school advice. How exactly does that happen and what does it mean? The second block is more about the transition of the p.o. I would like to say a few words about this, and the agreements that are made on this at local level. The third block is about how we look at it. Can we intervene, maintain and monitor whether schools actually follow the new procedure and rules as they are intended? The fourth block is about the underbuilding efficiency. A great deal has been said about this and I think there has been a great deal of confusion about it. I think it would be a good idea to consider that. In the last block there are some loose questions. So I'll start with the school advice. Let me stress here that the school advice is not based on a kind of gut feeling of the teacher in grade 8. That would also be very strange, because such a teacher would have to give advice after about six months. To what extent is that possible? The school advice follows the development of a child during the eight years he attended primary school. What are the strengths and what are the weaknesses? What do the keys that have been taken in the meantime look like? What can we see in the apprenticeship tracking system about the student? On the basis of all this information, the school advice is produced. This involves not only the teacher in the 8th grade, but also, for example, the teacher in the 7th grade, the internal supervisor and the director. So you can really say it's a school advice, not a teacher advice. We know that primary school advice in practice is a good predictor for the type of school in secondary education that best suits the student. The primary school advice is a better predictor than the final test alone. We also saw that in practice this final test had actually developed into a kind of final exam, and into the entrance ticket to secondary education. A snapshot had become decisive. We want to look at the situation in which this test is taken in all schools and in all pupils, but where the test becomes what it was once intended to do, namely a second one. That is why we have made school advice the leader of admission and placement in secondary education. The mandatory final test shifts over time, but it is still relevant for a small number of school advice at a later point in time when it comes to reconsidering the opinion upwards, if it turns out that the final test is higher than the school advice. Now that school advice is central, it is important that this advice is reliable and of good quality. We talk very often about the secondary schools that need to know what they are getting in, but I think that students in particular are entitled to the best possible advice, so that they themselves have a realistic picture of what they can handle and what best suits them. The ownership of that advice is entirely at the elementary school, let me stress that. We expect him to handle this professionally. The inspection recently found in a report on this subject that many schools do, but that there are still some improvements possible, such as how schools deal with the pressure of parents. This can be done, for example, by clearly indicating in advance how this school advice is produced and how parents can be included in it. That is why we are looking not only at how schools comply with the rules in the future, but also at the development of the quality of primary school advice. The fact that the school advice is leading does not mean that schools do not have an insight into the basis of that school advice and that this information cannot be transferred at the time of registration of the pupils. A number of questions have been asked about this, among others by Mr Klaver and Mrs Ypma. In the context of what you might call a warm transfer of students, it is crucial that this happens. For example, it concerns information on how pupils stand in terms of reference levels of language and arithmetic. This is essential to ensure that there is a continuous learning line, so that a student can also be played in the student's place. There seems to be some confusion here: it is thought that this information should no longer be transferred to a vo-school. That is not the case. The school where the student is enrolled may receive this broader information, as laid down in the Decision on exchange of learning and guidance data. But the crux is that this information should not be used in the placement or in the departure of the school advice. I would like to stress that the school advice, so the final opinion, is leading.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u60	Are you done with this part?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u61	Then I suggest you finish this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u62	Mr Bishop of the SGP asked what the Ministry could do to support schools in order to maximise the content of the school advice. First of all, I see that a lot of schools are doing well already. I am also talking to the PO Council to see if we can do more. This has recently led to a hand-out, which has also been sent to schools, which include points of interest and improvements that can be involved in school advice. Mr Van Meenen asked a question about combined opinions, such as a Havo/Vwo or a Mavo/Havo opinion. It must be clear that primary schools have plenty of room to deliver these mixed opinions. There is an added value in this, because for some students there is no obvious Havo or VWO advice, but it is somewhere in between. I am therefore very much in favour of maintaining that space. When talking about this locally, it is important to stress that primary schools should not be forced to issue single opinions. If there are agreements on this, I would find that undesirable, and I will also be keen on it and give a mixed advice to an elementary school anyway, then the school in secondary education is bound to do so. They asked how, if you get mixed advice, that affects itself, what exactly that is for advice and what that means for the switch. I think we should be clear about this: if we choose mixed opinions, they are also mixed opinions. In that sense, I do not fully agree with Mrs Ypma, for example, who says: if you have a Mavo/Havo opinion, it automatically gives you the right to access a Havo, although that would be a category havo, so to speak. I agree a little more with Mr Rog's line in that regard. If you have a HAVO/VWO advice, it does not automatically give you the right to access a category gymnasium. If you do not reach the vwo level, then there is no possibility to fall back on the havo. I am glad that we have a lot of broad school communities in the Netherlands and fortunately also broad bridge classes, even though there are discussions about this and you can see that this is getting a little less. It is in the best interests of the child to give as much justice as possible to that mixed advice. Therefore, children should go to a school, where there is the possibility, if you have a mavo/havo advice and you can handle it, to get to the havo, and, if not, not to leave school, but to go to the mavo at that school.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u63	I see Mrs Ypma walking to the interrupting microphone, but I would first like to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to conclude the first part. Questions may then be asked. I would ask the Secretary of State to speed things up, because he is now working on one subject for more than ten minutes without interruptions, and five more subjects remain to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u64	Four more after this, but this is the biggest. Mr Van Meenen and Mr Kuzu asked questions about the school advice. That is an important advice, because it is now leading and binding on schools. They asked whether parents should now be able to appeal and object. The difference between, for example, a decision on the placement of a school and the school advice is that the school advice is a professional opinion. It is therefore not a decision of an administrative body and it is therefore not possible to appeal against it and to object to it. In the case of an appeal and an objection, the judge could not make a substantive educational assessment. The judge shall check whether the laws and regulations have been properly applied. I think if you took that step, it would bring a lot of juridification and the pressure on schools is already enormous. I think that the current complaints procedure, which every primary school should have under the law, with a complaints committee that can look at the content of the school advice in full, is the level at which we must maintain the position of parents. If parents do not agree with the school advice, they can lodge a complaint on that route, which will therefore be treated seriously. In fact, I think it is a theme that, if we are going to evaluate, we should take with us: is the position of parents well embedded in this way? Mrs Siderius asked about the preliminary school advice, a suggestion from the National Parents' Council. That is ultimately up to the primary schools themselves, but I have little objection to schools working with preliminary advice in the run-up to the final opinion. This also clarifies the expectations of parents. The preliminary opinion is also a starting point for further discussions between the primary school, the parents and the school where a child would like to go. So that method is fine, but I think it goes too far to make it mandatory, should that be Mrs Siderius' question. That's how I got to the end of the first block.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u65	The Secretary of State said a while ago: the school advice may go hand in hand with the student's file containing information on the tests, but that should never be taken into account by a school when hiring a student. How does he see it that the principal of such a school is divorcing himself between all the data he has in front of him?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u66	A school can't say to a student at random, "I'll take you or not." You must have formulated a certain policy for that. One of the things that we have now legally anchored is the fact that primary school advice has to be leading in this. If a child gets a Havo advice and then knocks on a Havo, one can't say: you do have a Havo advice, but we don't like the test results from the 6th grade, so you can't go in with us. Then you break the law and there is also reason to intervene. As far as I am concerned, the school advice is beyond question. Those underlying data are not entirely irrelevant. Let me give another example, namely that of vulnerable children, children who need to be indicated for learning path-supporting education. In this case, it is very useful if a school next to the school advice sec knows where a student is, on which parts he is lagging behind. The school needs to know that not only after admission, but sometimes before. Let me give you another example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u67	No, it really needs to be short. You will receive a question and you have already given two examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u68	Then I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u69	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u70	Suppose a school has a lot more applications than there are places. Then it is selected on the basis of criteria that are not always clear. A school can consider how a child's file has been built and who has achieved the best results. The point is this. If the school advice is to be leading, why do we not give secondary schools just the school advice and do schools get the child's file, which is very relevant, only when the child has been adopted? This will prevent any abuse from taking place. I don't think you should be able to select on that. I can see why schools do that. If I was director of a school, maybe I'd take a look at it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u71	Let me take away the image that a school can randomly select if more children register than the offer can handle. You have to make very clear agreements about the basis on which you do that. This is happening in many municipalities as well. Then it's just a matter of whether we're looking at zip code policies, sibling schemes and the like. That's not random. There can be no cherry picking. Let me give you another example. If we take only primary school advice and do not provide any further information, it may happen that a child who has a certain need for support, for example, because it is heavily autistic, is accepted at a school. If then it becomes clear that the school cannot provide the necessary support for this, such a child must still be transferred. I think we can avoid a great deal of difficulty if we do not get so tense in this, but leave it to the good talks between primary and secondary schools to determine what information is being provided to a secondary school in order to achieve a proper transfer. This also does not oblige primary schools to transfer information. This often takes place on the basis of a good conversation and local appointments. If a school says it doesn't think this is relevant, it's not obliged to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u72	I'm gonna keep doing this anyway. This seems to be a small point, but it is very essential. Here is the leak in the law, namely the placement methods in which all kinds of agreements are made that prevent children from being selected. Isn't it much smarter to let kids in first? The Secretary of State is right that children in need of appropriate education may need to receive the file. Of all the other kids, the school doesn't get the file until they register.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u73	I wouldn't be very much in favour of reorganising this by law. You have to settle this by law, because at the moment the law and the underlying decisions make that exchange possible. So you should ban it. I think that the disadvantages are far greater than the risk that Mrs Ypma sees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u74	I think it is a big problem and that children will be refused. We do not want to lay down everything legally, but a motion might help the Secretary of State. We do not want to lay down everything in the law, but we do want to have a clear ruling in the Chamber which the Secretary of State will then be able to convey. Is the Secretary of State prepared to communicate that a dossier may be requested at the time of registration for children in need of appropriate education, but not for all other children?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u75	It's either one or the other. We don't rule in this country by motions. If the government is asked in a motion to amend this, it must amend the law. This will take a great deal of time, and we certainly did not arrange it for this year. I have serious doubts about the desirability of this. Let me give another example. In the case of mixed school advice, it can be very helpful if the school knows something about the background and the development of a student with a Mavo/Havo advice if that student and his parents opt for Havo. It can then come to a reasoned admission. If you don't give that information, you run the risk of being said massively: we don't take that risk, we put this student in Mavo.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u76	The law is clear. Nor is it our intention to enlist an administrative organisation to appeal and appeal. The law stipulates that the school's advice is directing. We have an inspection that can supervise. Do I understand correctly that the Secretary of State believes that the position of parents is secured by a complaint procedure and regulations that are included in the evaluation of the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u77	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u78	Does the Secretary of State believe that this does justice to the discussion and uncertainty that has arisen in the past period and which is most likely to continue to exist in the coming period? Does he not think that we should ensure the position of the parents on such an important subject, which is about the future of a child, much better and also work on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u79	I do not quite see the problem Mr Kuzu is putting forward. If we consider school advice and the professional judgement of teachers and the school as a whole to be so important, why do we not rely on it anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u80	I'm getting a question now, Mr. Chairman. Of course, this doesn't affect the confidence we have in the teacher's professional judgment. However, as far as we are concerned, it is at least as important that parents have an important role to play in this. Teachers and the school experience the student in primary education for eight years. The parents of the children, however, experience their child for the rest of their lives. They also have insight into what a child can or can't do. If there is a huge discussion, it is not about the trust we should have in the system or the teachers. The point is that we can strengthen the position of the parents in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u81	I have already indicated that it is very good if schools involve parents and if they do not only hear from the 8th grade in March what the expectations of the school are about what their child could do. A professional school advice is developed in the discussion between teachers, internal supervisors and the director. They say at some point: all weighing up we think that a HAVO/VWO advice is best suited to this child. It's really weird when that becomes a point of negotiation with parents who aren't satisfied, think it should be a vwo advice and say that their child has to go to the categoral gymnasium. This only increases the pressure that is often felt by schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u82	The Secretary of State states that he wants to give ample work to mixed opinions. This is fully supported by the CDA Group. What are we gonna do with these mixed advices? I don't think that's quite clear. The Secretary of State has rightly said that it is complicated for a category gymnasium to give a Havo/VWO advice by definition. But what do we do with these mixed advices on broad school communities? Does a MAVO/HAVO advice mean that a student has the right to go to the HAVO?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u83	In a broad school community you have the talk about where a student can go. If you have a mavo/havo advice and you go to a wide school community, it's no surprise if you end up in a broad middle class mavo/havo.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u84	I fully agree with the Secretary of State. I'm sure he'll come back to my plea for the broad bridge classes. However, not all broad school communities have a broad secondary class. Does this student have the right to be admitted to the single cocktail route?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u85	It's not arranged in such detail. What is arranged is that schools make a good assessment and that with a Mavo/Havo advice you cannot be refused by a broad school community. Something has already been said about the space needed to make agreements. The decision to place the school opinion at the centre of attention also stressed the importance of cooperation and coordination arrangements between primary and secondary education. In the explanatory statement to the Key Decision PO, which was put forward here last year and which was the subject of the written consultation, I indicated that cooperation and dialogue between primary and secondary education would benefit from the quality of school advice and a good transition. This is not done by prescribing a blueprint for this cooperation, but above all by giving room for mutual agreement. This can be done, for example, by means of placement methods and protocols, of course all within the general framework of laws and regulations. As far as I am concerned, it is a good thing that p.o. and vo-schools agree on registration and registration procedures and on the information that is being transferred. Local and regional conditions can also be taken into account. For example, in large cities, these placement methods are very important in order for the process to proceed in an orderly manner and to ensure that every child knows where it is going as soon as possible. I do not immediately have a problem with elementary schools agreeing with secondary education on how and with what data they support the school advice. You could say that this strengthens mutual trust in that advice. For example, agreements may be made on how the primary school uses key data in the preparation of the advice. However, it must be ensured that this does not become a rigid calculation system based only on method-dependent tests. A student is more than the sum of his cognitive performance; other skills and talents are also important. I get the impression that this is widely endorsed in education, for example on the basis of the letter sent by the PO Council and VO Council. They also stress a number of things in this context. For example, it indicates that the primary school ultimately determines the school advice itself on the basis of a weighting of information and insights and that the school advice determines the final placement of a pupil in secondary education. As long as the leadership of the school advice is respected, as far as I am concerned, there is room for local and regional agreements and I do not think that we should completely close this. This touches on the small debate we have just had on the question of when this additional information should be given to schools. I don't think I need to repeat this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u86	Are you done with this part?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u87	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'm trying to figure out the overlap with interruptions. Mr Bishop had a question about these local agreements: are schools obliged to take part in them? My answer to that is straightforward: no. Schools are never obliged to participate in regional placement methods; this is sometimes very useful, but this takes place on a voluntary basis. Let me be clear that this also means, for example, that a school should not refuse students because the supplying primary school does not participate in these regional agreements. This is therefore purely on the basis of voluntary and ditto for the agreements that are made in it. I want to give room for good appointments and no unnecessary bulkheads between places, but I don't want primary schools to feel forced or see to do things they don't want to do. Mrs Siderius of the SP indicated that many vo-schools demand that children have obtained certain scores for admission in the apprenticeship follow-up system. She asked whether that requirement could be made. My answer to that is straightforward: no. The school advice is leading. However, agreements can be made between primary and secondary schools on how primary schools can obtain their school advice. I think that is a good thing, because it increases mutual trust in the quality of these school advices.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u88	The Secretary of State says that secondary schools and primary schools can make arrangements in the placement guide about the information provided with the school advice. But the law doesn't allow that, of course. According to the law, schools should really rely only on the school advice. The question is then actually the following. If schools voluntarily make these agreements, if primary schools are not put under pressure, if they are okay with just consulting those figures and agreeing with them, is it or is it not? The study of the educational inspection looked at the placement methods. However, that study does not show whether they are voluntary or more or less forced agreements. How can the results of this study lead to the conclusion that laws and regulations are being observed or not? I hope my question is a little clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u89	In my view, that is very simple. Whatever underlying information is given, there is a final school advice and that must be leading. A secondary school which deviates from that is in breach of the laws and regulations we have agreed on. It's as simple as that. You can give a whole bunch of underlying information if you make good agreements about it and if parties find it useful, but it's about the final school advice. That's gotta be leading.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u90	However, the discussion is about giving the test results voluntarily. If a primary school agrees, a secondary school can therefore use it for admission purposes. That is not official, but it is stated in the placement guide and this is also mentioned as a condition. In the letter from the Dutch Parents' Council, there is a whole list of all kinds of examples of placement methods showing this. The question is, of course, how do you interpret that? Are we saying this shouldn't happen in the placement modes anymore? How should that be formulated? What can and can't be done? Where's the border? It seems to me that it is really detailed work to record that completely. The underlying question is of course: what is the position of the parent if he does not want the key data to be sent along, but if the placement guide says that there are voluntary agreements between primary and secondary education?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u91	For the latter case, there are all directives and decisions on what exactly schools are allowed to exchange, also to ensure a warm transfer. The best guarantee to ensure that what a large majority of the Chamber wants to do, namely that the school advice is leading, is to continue to insist that schools in secondary education should ultimately base themselves on it. This also gives certain rights to parents and pupils to claim a certain level of secondary education. I come to information and enforcement. Questions have been asked about placement methods and about schools where there are signs that they are not yet acting entirely along this line. Let me start with the information. I trust that the majority of secondary schools will respect and take over primary school advice. I have no reason to believe in advance that they will not. I am basing myself, for example, on the information provided by the PO Council and the VO Council, in which this is repeatedly stressed, and both organisations say: this is a good line to which we want to stick, and on the response that has been made to the preventive actions of the inspection. If we do not yet fully comply with the new laws and regulations and draw attention to them in schools and regions, it seems that the vast majority of these schools say: we are still adapting them. This also seems to lead to the desired result at local level. I refer, for example, to the statement made by Rotterdam educational alderman De Jonge in the city council last week, that students should be placed in the application of the Rotterdam placement guide according to the primary school advice. That was unclear. There was a discussion about that. In the end, it was emphasised that this is about elementary school advice. The inspection has looked at some of our well-known regional agreements and placement methods. It turned out that there is often good information transfer but that secondary schools sometimes reserve the right to deviate from the school advice on the basis of this information, which I believe is also what Mrs Siderius pointed out. Let me be clear: that is not allowed. The inspection's request to amend these agreements was constructively responded to. Eight out of the eleven placement methods have now been adapted. Two have been adapted but not yet fully compliant. So we pointed that out again. And we're still waiting for one. In addition to the regional agreements, the inspection is currently looking at the admission procedures of individual schools on a sample basis to assess their compliance with the new rules. Where necessary, schools are enabled to adapt them in line with the law. Almost all schools are willing to adapt their information. If, in spite of the information and all the actions being taken, a school in secondary education is going to ignore school advice, then I think it is simply a matter of intervention. Let me be clear about that here. I feel that this is a debate in which the majority of Parliament agrees with the line we are putting forward here, but I think the timing of this debate is very good to send out the signal once again that action will be taken where that does not happen. The education inspection has an important role to play here, which, of course, receives signals and also intervenes in risk-based monitoring if these signals are serious. In the extreme case, this could lead to a financing measure. I say immediately that taking such a measure is always meant as an ultimum remedium, like a stick behind the door. Such a measure follows a warning. Schools will first have the opportunity to recover what is wrong, as is already happening in preventive supervision. The inspection will not only respond to signals, but will also bring this issue into its discussions with school authorities in the coming period by pointing out to them the new rules. In addition, the autumn inspection will carry out a small-scale investigation into the actual state of admission. These insights will be involved in the entire review of the new legislation. There will, of course, be explicit attention to the transition from p.o. to vo. Mrs Ypma asked whether an evaluation could be carried out after this first round. I've already brought the formal review of the law forward to two years after the law came into force in the First Chamber. I have no objection to coming up with a quickscan in the autumn or some sort of initial impression of what has produced in the first year, without making this a formal legislative review. I also think that changes should be given time. However, we can find out where the bottlenecks are and whether these additional actions are on our side, so that we can tighten things up next year. This monitoring is aimed not only at admission in secondary education but also at cooperation between the p.o. and the quality of primary school advice. After all, it is about trust. We are always called upon to trust in education, but trust is especially important in education. Schools in secondary education should rely on the professionalism of their colleagues in primary education. A number of questions have been asked about information and enforcement. Mrs Ypma asked if there should not be a relay point with perseverance at the inspection, for example. The inspection is always open to signals. Serious signals from parents are always picked up. The inspection already does this in a way that is easily accessible to schools by calling them preventively if the admission procedures have not yet been fully updated on the basis of the new laws and regulations. The inspection takes a serious look at the signals that come in, even if parents point out that a vo-school does not follow primary school advice. However, it does not provide legal aid to parents. The inspection acts towards the schools and intervenes if schools do not follow the rules. Parents can always contact the National Parents' Council for advice and assistance in individual cases. In the case of individual decisions on admission to schools, this is, to some extent, no different than in the previous situation, parents always have the right to object and appeal. We have been asked what communication with the parents and the schools has been like. We have been very closely associated with what parents expect. We know that they like to receive information about these procedures through their own primary or secondary school. That's what it's been all about. We have launched a campaign to inform schools about this. The PO Council and the VO Council have been involved in this. The Dutch Parents' Council has also received a lot of information from us about the new laws and regulations. A lot has been done through the website reichsoverheid.nl. I believe that this debate also contributes to the clarity that we can give parents about how things are going. Several groups have asked when exactly can intervention be taken. Mrs Ypma asked how many sanctions have already been imposed. There are currently no formal sanctions. That has not been possible either, because the law on this issue has not yet been formally broken. The admission decisions only fall after 1 March, as a rule in March and April. We have always indicated to schools that we will intervene if they do not comply with laws and regulations. We are already exercising a great deal of preventive supervision, as it were, by pointing out a little threateningly when schools have not properly implemented these laws and regulations in the procedures. In that case, moreover, we can see that the vast majority of these schools and those regions say that they have misunderstood. Sometimes the outdated procedures are still on the website, but the school has been doing it in a different way for a long time. Next, there is the willingness to adapt the procedures in accordance with the new laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u92	Are you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u93	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u94	Then I give the floor to Mrs Ypma for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u95	Fortunately, the Secretary of State and I agree that it is important for parents to be able to report to the inspection. I would like to clarify the following points. There are a lot of parents for whom it is unclear, who have questions about this and they see that schools do not comply with the law. Is the Secretary of State prepared to actually consider the inspection as a hotline for the coming year and to give her perseverance power to intervene directly in the selection procedure of secondary schools that ignore the school advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u96	I would like to say two things about this. Parents need to know that they can always go to the inspection if things at school aren't right. That goes for admission, for exams, for poor quality, for bad teachers and you name it all. So we should not make it a separate hotline, because then we make it too complicated. Parents can just go there. The inspection never takes place in response to individual cases and cases. Mrs Ypma wants the inspection to stand up for the parents and intervene immediately. The inspection can't do that. It does not have the power to do so, nor does it have the role of inspection. The inspection uses the signals to check whether there is a breach of the laws and regulations and then to act sanctioningly towards the school. Usually a call from an inspector with a strict tone leads the school to say: we understand it and we adapt it. If a school does not do so, there will be a conflict between the inspection and that school and enforcement will take place. That is what I mean by the statement that the inspection does not provide legal aid to individual parents. Parents will have to act individually in order to appeal and object to a decision which they believe has been wrongly taken. That is what I mean by the statement that the inspection does not provide legal aid to individual parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u97	Why don't we leave the parents in the cold? If there are really schools or regions that do not enforce the law in their selection procedure and do not place the school advice at the centre, then there must be an authority in which parents can knock, which then intervenes? That body must then do so not only for those parents, but also for all those other parents who live in that region. I ask the Secretary of State again if he is willing to communicate that parents can always go to the inspection, especially on this point? Is he also prepared to intervene in a different way if that selection procedure is not correct? So I'm putting the ball with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u98	The inspection's already doing that. Again: parents can go to the inspection. That can't be said often enough. A good way to ensure that all these parents are helped is to enforce the inspection against a school. Even better, it won't come to that. That is precisely why there is additional capacity from the inspection to ensure that schools do not go wrong at all and that schools that do adjust and correct their procedures. That is the best solution to counter this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u99	I suggest you continue with your speech. I think you have two more topics to discuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u100	I think it's good to consider the underbuilding efficiency. One of the quality criteria used by the inspection for secondary education is the extent to which pupils in the third year are at least the same level as elementary school advice predicted. It's called the underbuilding efficiency. It's a hugely important indicator that says a lot about the quality of the school. As mentioned above, secondary schools may base their decision to admit pupils at a certain school level only on the school advice of the primary school. What happens if the advice of the primary school is clearly and consistently inadequate, or not sufficiently reliable? That's what Mr Bishop asked. If a primary school consistently gives too high advice, the secondary school sees this in its under-building return. In that case, is the school not addressed to something that he himself can't deal with and can't even do anything about it? That's how I interpret the question. First of all, it is good to say something about how the underbuilding efficiency is determined and how it is assessed. The underlying return is not determined on the basis of one pupil, but on the basis of all pupils who are in the third year at some point. If a student is at a lower or higher level than was stated in the primary school advice, this results in a plus or a minus score of 1 or 0.5. If the student is on the level, that leads to a neutral score. For example, a student with a HAVO/VWO advice who sits on the harvo after three years leads to a small mint, and when he sits on the vwo he leads to a small plus. All these positive and negative deviations are added together. So it is not just one individual pupil, it is an entire student cohort. Because the return is based on all pupils in the third grade, the result is an average. Moreover, the assessment of the return is based on a three-year average. So it really is about a substantial number of students. This also helps to prevent outliers. Mr Rog asked if a school would get a negative return if a student had a HAVO/VWO advice and went to the HAVO. Is that what the school's gonna take care of? So the answer to that is no. After all, in the calculation of the sub-structure yield, de-flowing compared to the primary school advice is compensated by upflow. As long as there is more influx than inflow compared to primary school advice, this has no negative consequences for the underbuilding efficiency of a secondary school. In short, as a secondary school, you only have a poor under-building return when there are structural and substantially more pupils in the third grade at a lower level than elementary school advice indicated, compared to other schools in secondary education. But if that situation arises, isn't there something really going on? The question is whether a school that succeeds in bringing all students with a Mavo/Havo advice to the haven does not do much better than a school that fails to do so by all students with a Mavo/Havo advice and eventually places all students on the Mavo. I would very much like the inspection to be sharp on that and remain sharp on it. Following the proposal of the VO-Council, the inspection is currently examining whether a bandwidth can be used in the assessment of the underbuilding efficiency of a school. This will allow a little more room for deviation, which may make schools even less afraid of cold water. I am very pleased that the PO Council and the VO Council also use that word 'cold-water fear', because you can really ask yourself what the problem is here. If advice from an elementary school is evident and consistent and therefore not sufficiently reliable, then it is also important that the secondary school, preferably together with other secondary schools, should take up this primary school. Secondly, the inspection of vocational schools which are structurally over-advising will also be able to appeal. In addition, the inspection may take account of this in the assessment of the underbuilding efficiency of a school by reasoning a deviation. So if a school has something to do with what Mr Bishop mentioned, it does not have to lead to a problem immediately. Questions have been asked, first of all...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u101	The Rog still at the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u102	I was distracted by an official of the Secretary of State; that's a clever tactic. I will be back in a moment, because this is an important point I would like to discuss with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u103	I wonder which official that was. You also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u104	It's working too, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u105	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u106	I have a few more questions on this block. That will enable Mr Rog to come back to that later. We have been asked about the implementation of the Ypma motion on the benefit of the doubt. There has been a long discussion about adjusting the school opinion in case the final test is higher than the original opinion. It has then been said that, if it is adjusted upwards, it should not be possible for a school to be paid for if it proves that the initial school advice was better. The inspection will follow this up by always looking at the original advice, even if it is slightly increased at a later date. So that's the benchmark. It has also been asked whether, within three months, we can come up with a proposal on a possible adjustment of the assessment of the underbuilding efficiency. I am going to do my best and also speed up the investigation that is taking place and the conversations that are going on with the VO-Council about what you can possibly do with bandwidth in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u107	Mr President, I am back on my feet. We were indeed talking about the underbuilding efficiency. The Secretary of State has indicated that he claims that there is actually no question of paying off those vo-schools. But does the Secretary of State agree with me that if 100 students receive a HAVO/VWO advice and go to the HAVO 90 of these, then there are 40 mints, and that in itself means that a school has an interest in placing pupils not at the highest level but at the lowest level of the mixed advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u108	No, it's exactly the other way around, Mr. Rog. At present, the incentive for inspection monitoring is that schools in secondary education are encouraged to get pupils to the highest level. If we now apply that bandwidth, as the VO Council would like, and so if we no longer look at whether they are placed on the Havo or VWO level, it will not matter in the future and that incentive will therefore disappear. I think we're gonna take away opportunities for students if we're gonna broaden the surveillance through the inspection so much that we're not gonna look at this anymore. I think it is important that when a student receives a HAVO/VWO advice, a school does everything it can to get that student to obtain that VWO diploma. It shouldn't be too easy for a secondary school to say: you know what, of those 100 students we only do 90 on the harvo. I think that's too easy. I think we're gonna take away opportunities for students if we're gonna broaden the surveillance through the inspection and water down so that we don't look at this anymore. I think it is important that when a student receives a HAVO/VWO advice, a school does everything in its power to see if that student can obtain that VWO diploma. And that it doesn't get too easy for a secondary school to say: you know what, of those 100 students we only put 90 in the Havo. I think that's too easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u109	The Secretary of State does indeed believe that vo-schools need an incentive to bring pupils to the highest possible level, at least the level recommended by the primary school. The CDA thinks that we should give students opportunities and that at the moment for schools have risk-avoidance behavior and that they are pushing students with such mixed advice to the lowest level, precisely because of that check-out by the inspection. We don't want to do that to our students, do we? This is really a difference of opinion between the Secretary of State and me. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State if he can't just follow this reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u110	A brief response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u111	It is really a big misunderstanding that Mr Rog is bringing forward. If 100 pupils had a Havo/Vwo advice and a school would allow all these children to go through the havo in advance, which I would find very undesirable and I think Mr Rog, too, has the inspection now a title to intervene. After all, it expected that at least half of those 100 pupils who had received a HAVO/VWO advice would end up in the VWO. So now the inspection has a title to intervene. The inspection doesn't have that title anymore if you're going to broaden it and if you say it doesn't really matter if you're going to finish the havo/vwo advice, or if you're going to finish the vwo, or if the inspection doesn't have to look at it anymore. It is a good thing to look at the underbuilding efficiency and encourage schools to bring pupils with a HAVO/VWO advice to the vwo as much as possible. It is really a big misunderstanding when Mr Rog brings this up. If 100 students had a Havo/Vwo advice and a school would say in advance "you know what, we'll let all those kids go through the havo" which I would find very undesirable and I think Mr Rog too, the inspection now has a title to intervene. Because it is said: of those 100 students who have received a HAVO/VWO advice, we expected that at least half of them would end up in the VWO. Now the inspection has a title to intervene. If you are going to broaden that and say that it doesn't really matter whether, if you have a Havo/vwo advice, you're going to finish the Havo or vwo, and the inspection shouldn't look at it anymore, the inspection doesn't have that title anymore. I think it is a good thing to look at the underbuilding efficiency and encourage schools to bring pupils with a HAVO/VWO advice to the vwo as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u112	I'm just gonna see if the Secretary of State is coming to his conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u113	There are a few questions left that I could not place in the cubes we discussed earlier. For example, there is a question from Mr Van Meenen and Mrs Ypma about the feedback of pupils' results in secondary education to primary education. This is already happening in some regions. It is also important to stress that work is currently being carried out on a flow monitor, whereby aggregated and therefore non-identifiable data from former pupils in further education are returned to individual institutions. That flow monitor was recently put into operation. However, I got the impression that Mrs Ypma wanted to go a little further and that her questions are that students' data are being relinked at individual level, as the sectoral councils also indicate in a letter. This, however, has effects on the privacy of students. So it's about feedback and maybe that's why not every student or parent jumps. I want to look at this, but I want to be careful. Maybe she'll allow me to take this point with me in the after-summer quickscan. The second question under this last heading is a question from Mr Kuzu. He asked if we could do research on sub-advice. This is part of the legal evaluation and is also part of the annual education report. This also applies to under-advisation, but also to over-advisation. I come to the end of my speech. The transition from primary school to secondary school and the admission and placement of pupils in secondary education should, in my view, simply go well. It is therefore important that secondary schools dare to rely on the quality and reliability of primary school advice. It is important that the elementary school advice actually fulfills the expectations. In this way, pupils can also live up to the expectations they have built up in primary education in secondary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u114	Mrs Siderius would like to say something, but I see more MPs walking towards the interrupting microphone. Don't you need a second term? I note that there is a need for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u115	We're still in the first term. A question from me has not been answered. Among other things, I asked a question about the registration date. Sometimes there is overlap now: the final school advice is not yet available, but the registration procedure for secondary schools has already started. That sometimes leads to confusion. It is sometimes the case that children are placed on a waiting list or that they cannot register with the school of their preference.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u116	I think it is important that the final school advice is available before the school registration procedure closes. It would be very strange if schools did not wait until the March period before they were finally placed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u117	Mrs Siderius, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u118	Okay. The question was something else. We agreed that the final school advice should be available by 1 March. Then you could say: we start the registration procedure from March 1st. The final school advice is then known for each child and the registration procedure can start. You'll have five months to sign up. The question is whether that is enough. Shouldn't you put it together in a row instead of overlapping it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u119	I don't think we should take care of everything from The Hague. I have no objection to schools saying on the open days, which are often there, you can already register. After all, some students already know very well which direction school advice is going. I do not think that this possibility exists before 1 March is so much the problem. At least it needs to be rounded up properly. If registration procedures were to end before March 1st, I'd find that weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u120	Mr Van Meenen has an interruption. It's kept up to date.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u121	I've been very limited, but not right now. The reason for this debate was that we found that there were violations of what we had in mind throughout the country. Now I think that this debate has helped to get even more precise what can and cannot be done. We will see some further motions later to clarify that. But my question to the Secretary of State is: what benefit does the individual parent have at the moment? Where can he or she report if, for example, the primary school advice has not been properly produced or the advice is not followed as a result of the procedure that a secondary school wrongly uses?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u122	A parent can report to elementary school if he does not agree with the school advice or if he has a complaint about it. There's a complaint procedure for that, too. A school can report to the inspection if the registration procedure of secondary education is not going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u123	But I do not think the inspection will deal with individual cases. She just doesn't. She looks at the school's policy at macro level. Unless I am mistaken, this does not seem to me to be a solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u124	I have just indicated that, in my view, this could lead to a solution to the problem. We can already see that schools that are threatened with misapplication of the procedures are being pointed out by the inspection and that they are subsequently adapting the procedure in accordance with the new laws and regulations. It is therefore very relevant that we receive these signals, because otherwise we cannot act on them. I think that's the best way to work here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u125	In my view, the Secretary of State has not answered a question from me about the difference in competence between teachers in the p.o. and vo and on the question of what stands in the way of teachers from the vo in the p.o. to be able to teach. This should be possible by 1 August 2016. Is that true? That's how I ask the Secretary of State. Are we still on the right timetable?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u126	Maybe I can come back to that in second place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u127	I think that's fine. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the first-term questions. I understand there is a need for a second term. The speaking time therein is one minute and twenty seconds. I call Mrs Ypma of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u128	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas primary school teachers base their school advice on the whole development of the child over all school years and the apprenticeship follow-up system;]] [[noting that there are secondary schools requiring primary schools to provide underlying data, such as tests from previous learning years;]] [[noting that this does not do justice to the opportunities offered to children, especially to late bloomers or children who are working very hard to overcome disadvantages and that it is contrary to the law;]] [[Calls on the Government to communicate clearly to parents, primary schools and secondary education that admission of pupils to secondary education should not be based on tests from previous years or admission tests and that, subject to the statutory exceptions, children should be allowed only on the basis of the school advice, unless the final test is higher than the school advice;]] [[calls on the Government to provide a more rapid evaluation of this new legislation shortly after the summer of 2015 so that it becomes clear quickly whether things are going wrong and, if so, what this is and whether the same uncertainty will no longer exist next school year;]] [[calls on the Government to include in this evaluation how the placement methods function,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in almost all regional placement methods primary schools are required to provide pupils with single school advice for secondary education, whereas primary schools cannot be required to do so by law;]] [[Considering that we should always offer children the opportunity to get the best out of themselves and that it is not possible for all pupils at the age of 11 or 12 to provide single school advice, and that pupils can benefit from a mixed school advice;]] [[calls on the Government to explicitly communicate to primary schools that they always have the right to provide combined school advice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Ypma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-217]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ypma and Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-218]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u129	Mr. Chairman. From my last interruption it has become clear that the position of parents, especially in relation to secondary education, is extremely weak if the placement is not complied with in accordance with the opinion. That's why I'm filing the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many of the problems related to primary school advice are the result of an opinion which has not been drawn up in good consultation with parents or of a refusal of admission which does not comply with the school advice issued;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the position of parents in relation to the above mentioned problems can be optimally strengthened and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer of 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that punishing schools on the basis of yield indicators in the sub-sector leads to perverse incentives to select pupils on the basis of additional information outside the school advice;]] [[Whereas the feedback of yield rates in the sub-sector to primary schools may be of great importance to schools in order to improve the procedures for issuing the school advice;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the feedback of return rates in the substructure towards primary schools is improved;]] [[calls on the Government to stop including the yield figures in the substructure in the assessment of the inspection in the case of a combined opinion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Meenen and Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-219]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Meenen and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-220]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u130	Mr. Chairman. I doubt the law is that clear. I think there is still too much room for schools to select on previous test results. In the brief interruptive debate we had on this issue, the Secretary of State rightly said that there may be situations where it is necessary to share those results earlier, so before a child is adopted. I do think that the decision to share or not share these results is a matter for the parents. That is an important responsibility of the parents. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the prior sharing of the educational report may lead to the selection of pupils on the basis of information other than the school advice;]] [[noting that it may be important for pupils with a need for care to share the educational report with the secondary school prior to admission;]] [[invites the Government to amend the law as soon as possible so that the educational report is only shared with the secondary school after the student has been admitted, unless it has been decided with the consent of the parents to share the report prior to admission,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-221]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u131	Mr. Chairman. I tabled a motion with Mrs Ypma on the preservation of mixed school advice, including in regional placement methods. In addition, I seem to have a serious disagreement with the State Secretary on the indicator of underbuilding efficiency. I shall therefore table a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the inspection will allow schools in secondary education to pay for the indicator "substancy efficiency" resulting from mixed school advice by the primary school if more than half of pupils with mixed school advice reach the lowest of the two levels;]] [[noting that schools in secondary education often require single school advice from primary schools and that this reduces the chances of pupils at higher education levels;]] [[calls on the Government to adapt the revenue model of the inspection in such a way that schools can no longer be taken into account in the third year as pupils attend one of the levels of the mixed advice education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-222]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u132	The Secretary of State has not responded to my request to come up with a vision around the broad seventh grade. I shall therefore table a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Education Council, in its reports "Vroeg of Late' (2010) and "Transitions in Education' (2014), explicitly calls for attention to be paid to the adverse consequences of an early selection for some pupils;]] [[noting that in these opinions the Education Council makes concrete recommendations regarding a more diverse offer during the bridge period, such as a mixed secondary class, an extended secondary class and head and foot classes;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a vision of the future of secondary education and to respond to the concrete opinions of the Education Council and to inform the Chamber by autumn 2015 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rog and Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-223]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u133	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first motion concerns the notification procedure for the new school year. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas final primary school advice is often not yet available, while secondary school registration procedures are already in place;]] [[Whereas this may mean that pupils may have to register with the school of their preference before the final school advice is received;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that secondary schools do not start the notification procedure for the new school year until the deadline for giving the final school advice has expired,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-224]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u134	It seems once again that the compulsory review in primary education creates a great deal of uncertainty, confusion and also a great deal of mistrust towards teachers who are required to give that school advice. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to remove the mandatory final test in primary education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-225]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u135	As far as we are concerned, the final test in primary education is again a new branch on the tree of the settlement culture. In my view, that is what we need to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u136	Mr. Chairman. I need to hear another sound. The PvdA itself helped this problem in the world, supported by the Secretary of State and the VVD, which made a huge turn over the Rutte I cabinet. We ask the Secretary of State to accept his responsibility and to recognise that there is a poor policy solution for all the problems we have discussed today, namely to use the Cito test as a matching instrument again by bringing forward the moment. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the decrease date of the central final test has shifted from spring (February) to almost the end of the school year (May);]] [[noting that the central final test can no longer be a matching instrument providing an objective school advice on further education;]] [[Whereas this will require the development of own admission procedures for secondary education, which will lead to a great deal of uncertainty;]] [[calls on the government to shift the (deduction) date for the central final test to the middle of the school year (February) and thereby to give the test the role of objective matching instrument, in addition to the school's advice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-226]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u137	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers he has given in his first term. We have called on the State Secretary to work on under-advisation and we have asked him to do research on the basis of the Elementary School Advice and Ethnicity report of the municipality of Amsterdam in 2007. The Secretary of State replied that there are annual education reports. We have taken a brief look at this and we see very brief information about under-advisation. That's why I'm tabling a motion, but first I'm giving the figures on under-advisation. One third of the total population in Amsterdam, 28% of Dutch pupils, 41% of Moroccan-Dutch pupils, 34% of Surinamese-Dutch pupils and 44% of Turkish-Dutch pupils. That's why I'm filing this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the 2007 report "Basic School Advice and Ethnicity" of the municipality of Amsterdam shows that a third of the students receive lower school advice than you would expect from their Cito test;]] [[noting that this primary school advice hampers these pupils to make full use of their talents and potentials;]] [[calls on the government to carry out a recurring investigation into the extent to which under-advisation is currently taking place in the Netherlands and whether certain groups (social-economic, ethnic, gender) are particularly vulnerable to this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-227]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u138	Mr. Chairman. There was one question left from the first term. Ms Straus asked whether it would be possible to do something about the powers before 1 August 2016. The answer to that question is yes. Eleven motions have been tabled. The first motion, in part No. 217, is Mrs. Ypma's. That motion includes two requests. I fully agree with the first request, so that's what we're going to do. With the second request, I think I can go a long way. I saw Mrs. Ypma nodding in the first term. A formal review of the law will take place after four years. I promised the Chamber that after two years I would come forward with a mid-term review. Can I take Mrs Ypma's request in the motion as follows? After the summer, we're just going to evaluate how that first year went. In addition, we will also bring those placement methods. It will not be a formal legislative review or mid-term review, but simply the search for an answer to the questions of what lessons we can draw from the past year and how we can adapt our procedures. If I may take Mrs Ypma's question like that, I would like to go along with that. Then I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u139	I would like to say that the Secretary of State can indeed interpret my motion in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u140	I do not think it is surprising to say that I fully agree with what was said in the motion for a resolution on part No. 218 is requested. Primary schools always have the right to provide combined advice. In fact, I think that is very good, because this is actually a much more sophisticated system. Otherwise, there's only the category school type, but sometimes it's just in between. Let's keep it. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber, but we're gonna do this anyway. The motion in part No. 219, by Mr Van Meenen and Mr Kuzu, deals with the position of parents. I'm deceiving that motion. The position of parents is included in the broad monitor of the law. The Chamber will be informed of this at the end of 2016. I find it unwise to take one element out of that now. Moreover, I believe that the position of parents is well secured when it comes to the advice, for example with the final test itself. The second independent fact shows whether the primary school was right. If parents are not satisfied, there is always the complaint procedure. When it comes to placement, parents can go to the inspection. For individual cases, appeals and objections are always open.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u141	Mr Van Meenen, I see that you want to respond. You may ask one short question, but only if it relates to the motion. We are not going to have the debate again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u142	At the end of 2016 we will hear about this. That's exactly the point. End 2016 is too late for a lot of parents. We are having this debate because a lot is going wrong. The Secretary of State rightly distinguishes between the complaint procedure of the primary school to which one can rely and, if the opinion is not followed, the possibility of writing a letter to the inspection. Let us just look at how this position can be strengthened, especially in the direction of secondary education. I think it would be wise, without going into legalization, to look at that particular point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u143	Clear, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u144	I do not want to make this a debate in principle, because I think it is important that we look at the law as a whole and that we take this point into account. Maybe that's why I can do it like this? I have just promised Mrs Ypma that we will do a quick scan towards the autumn. I am now saying that we are taking this element into account. My point is that I think that the position of parents is very well secured at the moment. So I do not want to give the impression in advance that this position needs further strengthening. If that turns out to be different, I'll get back to that immediately and I'll take it with me in the quickscan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u145	What exactly do you say about the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u146	I would advise against this motion because it calls for a separate investigation. But perhaps it is a concession towards Mr Van Meenen that I should let this be part of the quickscan that I have just promised to Mrs Ypma. This is just like the placement methods, which are specifically mentioned in her motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u147	Then may I interpret it in such a way that this investigation is included in the quickscan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u148	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u149	If we both interpret it that way, I suppose it has become policy support. Then we'll agree, won't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u150	Mr Van Meenen is asking for a separate investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u151	Not anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u152	We're not gonna talk endlessly about a motion. Now it must be clear what the Secretary of State advises on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u153	I'm gonna dissuade her anyway. The text of this motion pre-orders that the position of the parent needs to be strengthened, but that question is open to me. Is there a problem here at all? If that's the case, that's what the quick scan shows. However, I do not want to examine solutions in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u154	There is time until Tuesday to adjust the motion if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u155	Then there is the Van Meenen/Klaver motion on part No. 220. I really want to discourage this motion. This has to do with the fact that if the inspection can no longer look at the rates of return, every incentive will be removed from schools to get everything out of pupils if there is a combination of advice. I don't think that's wise. The Klever/Van Meenen motion in part No. 221, I'd also like to dissuade you. It is not wise to prescribe this in such a general way and to put all kinds of divisions between them now. I would stress once again that primary schools are not obliged to provide additional information to secondary schools, but I certainly do not want to ban them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u156	The core of which almost the whole Chamber is in agreement is that the school advice should be guiding and that the child's file is supportive. Why is it necessary, then, or why should the standard rule be that this is passed on to secondary education at the same time or before the school advice is given? That is not necessary to meet the wishes of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u157	It is not a standard rule, it is not a duty in the law, but there is a possibility for schools to agree on it at local level. This sometimes has to do with the fact that it is mutually important that you also provide the basis for your advice and that it is sometimes good to colour a little more about how a student has done it in the past and how he does it on different parts. This is without prejudice to the need for primary school advice to be leading. In my view, it is also very clear when schools in secondary education do not comply. If a secondary school says: I have all this data and I have a primary school advice, but despite the elementary school advice saying that this is a student for the law school, I don't care, because he didn't do well on a test once in the sixth grade, then that school is in violation. That's the best measure of how to keep schools. I think it would be a shame if we now set hard bulkheads between the p.o. and vo, while we are always talking about hot transfers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u158	I want to change the default. Default is now the default option: it is not given before the school advice is issued. However, there is a clause in it, one might say, namely: if it is necessary, it can still be shared, with the consent of the parents. I agree with the reaction of the Secretary of State in his first term that it may sometimes be necessary to do so, for example when appropriate education is involved. That room also offers this motion. I think that the Secretary of State is too easy to ignore. I ask him to take another look at this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u159	If I go along with Mr Klaver's and Mr Van Meenen's motion, I think we are going to put it too tight in the procedure. Then we need parental consent. You should know how many children have a particular need for support in education, or they should be given a certain indication in the context of lwoo or pro. We're gonna make that extremely procedural. Schools then have to visit parents first for permission. I just don't like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u160	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u161	No, Mr Van Meenen. The first signatory is Mr Klaver. He's already asked a few questions about the motion. You are a co-signator, but it is not intended that co-signators should also ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u162	I'll come to the motion in part No. 222 by Mr Rog. It is also about underbuilding efficiency and removing the indicator. Again, that seems really unwise to me. I would therefore advise against this motion. It is precisely this that removes the incentive for schools to take as many children as possible from children with mixed advice. That is precisely what the inspection is now watching. If we followed this motion, it would lapse. The motion in part No. 223 is about a vision of the broad seventh grade. I think we have already responded to the Education Council reports from 2010 and in particular 2014 from the cabinet. We have already dealt with these elements. The line was: we consider it very valuable, but at the same time it is the freedom of schools to make choices. I would therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u163	It's a shame the Secretary of State is doing this. It is true that in one very short paragraph a few remarks by the Education Council are repeated, after which it is noted that it is up to the educational field itself to find out. However, this motion calls for a vision of the cabinet. It calls for dialogue with actors in the field of education and for a substantive response to that important consultative body of the government, namely the Education Council, which has issued twice a number of opinions. They will be closely linked to the discussion we are having today. The only thing I ask the Secretary of State is: are you prepared to discuss this and write a letter to the Chamber so that we can proceed with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u164	Going into conversation is something other than creating a vision. I would like to talk to secondary education to see if there is a real problem here, what is going on, whether there is a need for policy and a vision. If the answer to that is in the broad 'yes', it is a reason for me to take a look at it. For the moment, I don't have that impression. I see a lot of broad school communities and I still see a lot of broad bridge classes. I think it would be premature to come up with a vision, but perhaps I can meet Mr Rog somewhat. If he asks me to talk to the VO Council to see if it is a topical issue there too, I have no problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u165	Look, that's great!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u166	Well, well, well. That's how we do business.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u167	At the request of Mr Rog, I propose his motion (31289 No. 223), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 223/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u168	We shall now proceed to the motion in part No. 224.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u169	Mr. Chairman. I would advise against this motion, because I would like to leave the room to schools to organise it wisely. I don't want to make this tight. The motion in part No. 225, I also advise against it. Two years ago, the Chamber stated that it was important for all pupils to take a final test in all schools. Before that, there was a large majority, and I do not think it would be wise to reverse this now. The motion in part No. Mr Beertema (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. There was then a broad desire to put the test moment back a bit in time, so that it would also be given in time that supporting advice and a second objective rather than some kind of final exam. That is what it had become more or less in primary education. I still fully support that decision. The motion in part No. I do not think that Mr Kuzu's report is necessary. This is already happening; this is being considered in the context of the four-year review of the law. The Court is informed after two years and is also part of the annual report on education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u170	The Secretary of State says the motion is unnecessary. I can't find in the annual education reports the data I'm asking for in the motion. Then how can the motion be unnecessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u171	Seek, and thou shalt find.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-25-tweedekamer-4.u172	We will vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled. I would like to thank the Secretary of State, the Members of Parliament and the people who have followed this debate in the public gallery for their presence.
