ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. A strong force needs strong equipment. If the Cabinet decides to deploy military forces and the Chamber agrees, our military must be able to rely on the equipment they use. Soon we will have a debate on the purchase of the JSF devices, a project with permanent problems, because it is still unclear what the device can do, whether it can do what has been promised and whether it is within the budget. Unfortunately, this isn't our Air Force's only headache file. The purchase of the latest maritime battle helicopter also has numerous setbacks. Previously, delivery was temporarily discontinued after 100 problems were identified, such as rust, excessive wear and tear and noise load for kites. 25% of all problems, i.e. a quarter, have not yet been resolved. Following the undertakings given by the manufacturer, a sister company of the Fyra producer...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Other solutions have been sought for the meantime, which cost the taxpayer at least EUR 105 million. We have now arrived at problem 101: the extinguishing system in the engine causes short circuit. That's why the German army decided to keep these fighter helicopters on the ground. The Dutch helicopters have exactly the same engines. That is why the following four questions are addressed to the Minister. What does this mean for the helicopters that the Netherlands already uses? What about the devices to be delivered? What are the costs of this yet another setback? Who's gonna pay for these costs, DOD or the manufacturer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mrs Hachchi for your questions. The incident with the German NH90 took place in Uzbekistan in June 2014. We discussed this extensively during an AO on December 17, 2014. The incident was caused by the fact that an engine was not first blown through with air when restarted. The pilots then received a report of overheating of the engine, on which they activated the fire extinguisher. Because they have activated the fire extinguisher for too long, overheating has arisen in a control panel. Germany and also industry then investigated the incident. On 6 February, the German military inspector advised that routine flights with the NH90 should be suspended for the time being. That advice was followed by Germany. The Netherlands is also familiar with the incident. I told you, we talked about it. However, we do not stop the NH90, because there is a procedure to prevent the problem, namely the short operation of the fire-extinguishing system. The industry has informed users of this and the relevant authorities in the Defence Department have assessed this measure as satisfactory. When I talk about the authorities involved, I'm referring to DMO and the MLA, the Military Aviation Authority. In short, there are no costs involved, but of course we are in close contact with our German colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u3	The important thing is that we get clarity about the message first. I understand that this is a recent case and that last Thursday the Germans decided to keep those aircraft on the ground. If I'm wrong, I'd like to hear it from the Minister. Has she not received new messages from her German colleague that the NH90 has shown new problems for the Germans, and that they have decided to keep this device on the ground? If we can get that misunderstanding out of the way, I'd love to. I'd like to hear that from the Minister. For the rest, I cannot stress enough that military personnel should be able to rely on the equipment they work with. The air force is facing a number of challenges, if I can put it that way, in terms of equipment. We're gonna talk about the JSF. Today I understood that the unmanned aircraft are becoming more expensive and about the battle helicopters I asked the Minister today. I understand that she is actually saying: for our current helicopters, what has been observed in Germany will have no effect. I would like to hear a clear answer from the Minister to the question of who will ultimately pay the extra costs. Is that the manufacturer, yes or no? That is a very important question, also given the commitment from this Chamber to release extra money for the Defense Department.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u4	I fully agree with Mrs Hachchi that military personnel deserve good equipment. It is partly for this reason that we are investing in a new fighter plane. This is an incident that took place in June 2014. As a result, an investigation has taken place and Germany has decided to keep the fleet on the ground. I am sailing on the advice of the Military Aviation Authority (MLA) in the Netherlands, which said that it is not necessary to find it because there is little chance of overheating of the control panel, because following the proper procedure prevents the fire and because the fire extinguisher works properly. We keep in close contact with our German colleagues. If this leads to an adaptation of the design, the industry will have to pay for it. However, I repeat that the Military Aviation Authority does not consider it necessary to ground the NH90. I think I answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u5	The Minister can say she answered all the questions. She herself is talking about her answers, but I want a clear answer to the next question. Does it mean that the helicopter capacity is not at stake or that at least there is no new information from the Germans that can affect our helicopter capacity? The Minister also believes that this is a crucial capacity. As far as the money is concerned, are the additional costs associated with setbacks or problems with the NH90 helicopter borne by the manufacturer? I would like a clear answer to that. I have just emphasised that a number of parties are trying to find extra money for the Defense Department in this house. It cannot be that money is then spent on matters that go in a way that they should not go.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u6	Of course, I am very pleased with the enormous support in the Chamber for an increasing budget for Defence. Mrs. Hachchi knows that. I am also very grateful to D66 for that. This concerns the German Ministry's decision to follow the advice of its own inspection. The Netherlands follows the advice of the Military Aviation Authority. Again, Germany keeps the Netherlands well informed of the claim of the investigation into the incident that took place in June 2014. Yesterday, on 9 February, the manufacturer again instructed on how to handle the control panel and the fire extinguisher system. In the Netherlands, the authorities concerned have claimed that the measure is sufficient. That's why the Defense Department doesn't shut down the plane, like Italy and Finland. Therefore, there are no costs involved. If Germany's research leads to a necessary adaptation of the design, then industry will have to finance it. I have just said that, so I am very clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u7	I find one more point unclear. The risk for the German helicopters is the same as for the Dutch helicopters. In Germany, the situation is so estimated that it is not justified to fly these helicopters at the moment. The Netherlands says: if we do something about the procedure, it is justified to fly these helicopters. The question then arises as to whether Germany is too careful whether we are being too careless. Perhaps there should be a little more contact between the Netherlands and Germany to tell us where the truth lies?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u8	There is very good contact between Germany and the Netherlands, both between the two ministers and at all other levels, especially when it comes to equipment that the countries together have in use, for example the NH90. The investigation in Germany is still ongoing. We'll be in close contact. Perhaps Germany is trying to put a little pressure on industry in order to adapt the design. I can't really estimate that. If that is the case, we will give Germany our wholehearted support. The instructions issued are in principle sufficient for the Netherlands to continue to fly with the NH90.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-4.u9	I thank the Minister for her answers and for her coming to the Chamber.
