ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. The OV-chipkaart is too expensive and too user-friendly. At the moment, more than 62,000 digital signatures have been signed under the action of the Consumers' Association and the Travelers' Organisation Rover. There are three demands which seem to us to be quite reasonable and which we have often talked about in the Chamber. The first demand or wish is that the price should be reduced. The card costs €7 and this is much more expensive than in other countries. If you take a subscription, the card is free and why not if you travel a little less often by public transport? The second requirement is that the card should be replaced free of charge at the end of life and in the event of an invisible defect. That too seems to us to be a very reasonable demand. The third demand concerns the return of your balance. If you want your own money back, you have to pay €2.50 administration costs. That is, of course, ridiculous and very customer unfriendly. Even if you want to turn in your card because you no longer need it, you still have to pay that €2.50; just to get your own money back. I would like to add my own point. That's beyond this action. This concerns the PVV's wish to return the paper train ticket. It would be great if people who do not travel daily by train but only occasionally, could just buy another paper train ticket.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. I will try, on behalf of the Secretary of State, who is now in Paris, to answer the questions as well as possible. Following a European comparison and following a signature action, the PVV asked these questions. I think it's good to give what's happening with it from the Ministry right now. The price of the OV-chipkaart may differ from those used abroad. The Netherlands is the only country where a single-card traveller can travel in public transport, regardless of means of transport or location. The price of the card will be part of the conversation in the NOVB, the National Public Transport Council. The last year has also discussed the administrative costs of returning your own balance. The stakes were that no administrative costs would be charged anymore. The NOVB has recently decided to reduce administration costs from €2.50 to €1 by 1 January 2016. That is already a step in the right direction. With regard to the validity of the chip card, you can also see international differences. The question is also whether these cards can be compared. I already mentioned what's possible with our map. Perhaps the price also has to do with the quality of the chip. In any event, the question of what is possible in relation to the period of validity will also be part of the consultation with the NOVB. I note the following about the free replacement card in case there is a visible effect. Translink indicates that in case of an invisible defect up to two years after purchase, a replacement card is provided free of charge, because that defect may have to do with the card itself. If a card no longer works due to careless use by the customer, it is logical that the customer also bears the costs. As far as the paper train ticket is concerned, there are alternatives for the occasional traveler who does not or does not want to have a chip card. He can print out an e-ticket for free or buy a one-time chip card from the ticket machine. This debate has been held many times in the Chamber. In the end, there is no reason to enter another paper card next to the OV-chipkaart. That would be a far too expensive and complex system next to it. There is therefore an alternative for the traveller who is only on the train once. I do not know how you travel yourself, Mr Madlener, but there is an alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-5.u3	I have one of those too expensive O.V. chip cards myself. I can recognize myself in the complaints. I hear from the Minister that she's making the conversation, but I want to know what the stakes are. I have already said that, as far as we are concerned, the demands are very reasonable. The card needs to be cheaper. As for the replacement, why shouldn't you have to pay money after two years if the card isn't damaged and then it is? I don't understand. The card can also be destroyed after three years. Administrative costs fall to €1. That is a good thing in itself, a step in the right direction. But if you want to get your own money back, isn't it reasonable that you get everything back and don't have to pay €1? I think a lot of people still miss the paper train ticket. If you do not travel frequently, it is useful to buy a train ticket. It's much easier, isn't it? Then you don't have the whole chip card thing. I find it disappointing that the Minister does not want to go into this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr Madlener asked for his own position in the NOVB. I'll say something about that. Furthermore, next week the research of Rover and the Consumers' Association will be discussed in the NOVB. The results will be sent to the Chamber by the Secretary of State for the AO in February on the OV-chipkaart and taxi. Its own opinion is as follows. It is not surprising that you also ask for a budget for an administrative operation; the €1 variant. A further reduction and more service is fine, but in the end it is business cases that have been agreed with these organisations in advance. So it's got to be able to get out. The effort at the NOVB was not to charge any administrative costs. The amount's going down now. The discussion will be about whether it is possible to eliminate administrative costs altogether. The same applies to the period of validity. You can look at extension or some other way you can take care of things. That too will be a discussion. A free replacement card? I don't think it's crazy, as is the case with bank cards and, in fact, all the cards that we know of that you finally charge an amount for replacing a card. It has been deliberately chosen to provide a replacement card free of charge if defects have been identified within two years. I think I've had it all. The most important thing is that the Secretary of State wants to look at a longer period of validity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-5.u5	The fact that we are standing here and that so many signatures have been collected indicates that people are not satisfied with the customer-friendliness of that OV-chipkaart. That is an extraordinary pity. Next week there will be a discussion with the NOVB, as I understand from the Minister. Is she willing to put on the table that other existing techniques need to be speeded up with your smartphone or your debit card? Those are really customer-friendly systems. Everyone has a smartphone these days. When that conversation is opened, I suggest that we put it explicitly on the table. Those signatures are there for a reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-5.u6	Sure we can do that. Technology changes, society changes and opportunities and desires change. As far as that goes, never stop. Many signatures have indeed been collected and people think this is an important point. On the other hand, I would also like to point out that 2.8 million people use the OV-chipkaart and provide a 7.5 for ease of use. I'm just saying this to put the other image.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-5.u7	We know all these problems. I'm traveling with the O.V., too. In addition, it is known that you will not get the money you paid for it back if your OV-chipkaart is still working, but has expired. Can't it be possible to recycle the card and get your money back when you send it and it's still working? Then he can eventually be re-used by the O.V. companies to pay with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-5.u8	In my view, this is linked to what Mr Madlener asked and that question had to do with the money that is still on the O.V. chip card. I think you are going one step further by saying that you can get back the €7 you paid for it. I don't think that's possible. Eventually, an organization also incurs costs. You'll charge for that. Against something you deliver, a service, must also be a cost. I am not in such a deep position either that I cannot ask what can be reused at that point or not. However, I think that was a different question from Mr Madlener's question with regard to the budget that was already on the map.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-5.u9	Costs were also incurred for the introduction of the OV-chipkaart and they were simply included in the ticket. Now that we suddenly have an O.V. chip card, I don't understand why you have to pay for a card that you can't do anything with and which you still have to charge balance. It used to be just in the system. I mean, I mean, you could do that with that O.V. chip card these days, couldn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-5.u10	I'm going into the free interpretation now. Other methods also regulate it. The costs are probably already included in a subscription. With a separate OV-chipkaart you can't do that and at least you have to pay for the pass. That also happens with banks, because I think we'll pay something of €15 for a bank card before you even have any money on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-5.u11	No, Mr Bruins, you no longer have a chance because Mr Voordewind had already asked a question. We're gonna leave it at that. Minister, thank you for coming to the Chamber and thank you for the answers you have given. That is the end of oral Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. and then we shall vote.
