ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u1	Thirteen speakers have signed up. As with the last time we talked about the gas in Groningen, I allow four interruptions per group in the first period. All I'm talking about is interrupting each other. First, I give the floor to Mrs van Tongeren van GroenLinks, who has requested the debate. I would, of course, like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs. He's been in our midst for some time, because he had some other things to do. Glad to have you back, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u2	Mr. Chairman. "Sorry, Groningen, we haven't thought about your safety." The Minister finally admitted that yesterday. "Sorry, you are at least ten times more at risk than other Dutch people. Sorry, the money made with Groningen gas we have mainly spent outside Groningen." Every normal human being expected immediate apologies after the research council's rigorous report. Why did the minister have to think about it for two weeks first? Any normal person would expect him to immediately accept all the recommendations of the Research Council, just as Minister Opstelten did after the great chemical fire at Moerdijk. But no, we are debating today with a reluctant minister. He's got more important things to do. Nor do the government parties express any urgency and call a quick debate on this tough report a political game. The minister who today turns off the riedel of first six weeks waiting for a response, waiting for the risk analyses, waiting for the standard earthquake-proof construction to be completed and waiting for us to decide in July, symbolizes exactly what the research council describes as "the Empire and the operator feeling neither urgency nor responsibility." As far as GroenLinks is concerned, this minister has two things to do here today. He has to turn off the Groningen gas crane to the lowest level required for our foreign contracts, the Dutch houses and companies, up to 30 billion kuub and as much lower as possible, and outline how the cabinet will handle Groningen security carefully from today on and how it will implement the recommendations of the Research Council in general. A minister who does not accept the recommendations today, a minister who, without urgency, wants to proceed with the slow decision-making process, a minister who says that we are still hearing from him today, is a minister who does not take the safety of the citizens seriously enough and therefore cannot remain responsible for gas extraction in the case of GroenLinks. The Minister says in the media that something seems to have changed since 2013 which we read in the report, by the way, and that the safety of residents has been important since 2013. Can this minister explain to us why since the beginning of 2013 up to three times the advice of the supervisory authority "the SodM " has been ignored? That opinion was that gas extraction had to be reduced as quickly as possible and as realistic as possible. That's what the supervisor said in early 2013. Following this opinion, the Minister allows the highest extraction from the Groningen field for the last 25 years. The NAM's extraction plan for 2014-2016 is rejected, according to the regulator at the end of 2013. This Minister approves the extraction plan. Stop the gas extraction at Loppersum, says the supervisor at the end of 2013. This minister doesn't close the cluster at Loppersum. I come to the recommendations of the Research Council. GroenLinks has been thinking about changes over the last two years and has also submitted proposals on them which are needed in any case in the gas building. Place the supervisor outside Economic Affairs, give municipalities, provinces, water boards and the security region the same role as now for example in the Environment Act stands for all other risky activities. Give the Ministry of Finance an active shareholder role, as is the case with all other State participations. Put down the direction for strengthening buildings and earthquake-proof construction outside Economic Affairs, for example at Minister Blok. If a national coordinator is to be appointed by the province of Groningen and the municipalities there, these powers should certainly not be combined with Economic Affairs, but rather with Home Affairs, for example. Make sure that the SodM and the NAM disclose all the information and data they have, so critical scientists will be able to anticipate from now on. Turn the burden of proof so that the NAM has to prove that something is not a gas extraction damage, rather than that citizens always run into it. The government needs to put in place a strategy to accelerate fossil recovery. A large part of the world's gas and oil reserves must remain underground in order to prevent climate chaos. We must do the same in the Netherlands. Start in Groningen, for example, but also on Terschelling. That is good for our climate, that is good for the economy and that is good for the Groningers. So: natural gas-free neighborhoods, no new foreign gas contracts and a high commitment to insulation of all our homes so that we will save gas from now on because of less heat consumption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u3	Mrs Van Tongeren looks forward and appeals to the Minister for his political responsibility. That's right; I'm going to do it later. I was actually waiting a little bit, looking backwards, for the responsibility that parties like GroenLinks also have. The research report also says that it has gone wrong for a very long time, for more than 10 years, perhaps 15 years, perhaps 20 years. I kind of miss the responsibility of GroenLinks. It is fine if questions are now being asked to the Minister and action is being taken, but why is GroenLinks not saying looking back: we should have called earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u4	Thank you for this question. I think that GroenLinks was one of the first parties to come forward immediately after the first opinion of the Research Council in January 2013. For people who want to look it back, in January 2013 I argued in Buitenhof for turning that crane off. Then you can say we'd rather have done that five years earlier. I'd like to go along with that. However, we have advocated the general rehab of fossil. In the first instance, we have focused much more on oil and coal. Looking back, I would have been happy if we had done it harder on gas inland. But the moment there was talk of shale gas in the Netherlands, I was one of the first in the Chamber to ask written questions about it in June 2010. With regard to the gas extraction in Groningen, I was also one of the first to say very clearly in the media that the gas tap should be closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u5	Those credits must have Mrs. Van Tongeren. I've been through all that. Only recently, 26 April 2012, the Kunduz agreement was concluded. In that agreement, too, it was not agreed that a financial gap had to be closed because the gas extraction in Groningen had to go down significantly. Of course, that's very recent. My central point is that the report of the Research Council looks much further back and says: there is a kind of collective responsibility. Let us take it together by saying to each other: the Minister must do a number of things better in the future, but apparently so should we.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u6	I understand the call. Especially for the past, I think we can all blame ourselves for that. For the last two and a half years, I believe that GroenLinks has played a leading role in driving the gas debate. I am delighted that we are now faced with a united opposition, but that has lasted for two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u7	Mr. Chairman. "I'm very sorry," we heard the Minister say. The question today is whether he's really sorry. What everyone knows a long time ago and what everyone already feels, when you live in Groningen literally, is now finally in black and white in a report that even the cabinet can no longer ignore. The safety of Groningers did not count in the decisions on gas extraction. That wasn't just a mistake. That wasn't a case of "gut, what a dumb thing to say we missed that." No, the look was on the gas benefits. Economic gain for everything. Warnings that pumping the Groningen field would lead to earthquakes and thus to dangers for the safety of citizens were deliberately ignored. People who rang the bell and had the guts to fight that beer cooker were ridiculed. They were put away as "crazies." I am referring to all those independent experts who have warned us, such as Meent van der Sluis. The Party for Animals finds this very serious. Anyone who reads a little through the official language can see that in the report of the Research Council for Security several people have picked this out as well, fortunately, the conclusions are harsh, especially for a cabinet headed by this Prime Minister, who does not fail to repeat that security is a core task of the government. We're missing the Prime Minister in trade-K today. It is up to the cabinet to decide who is to delegate it to a debate which the Chamber has requested. The responsibility for the safety of all the inhabitants of our country, including the Groningen people, is a responsibility which, as far as the Animal Party is concerned, the Prime Minister must also come here. Human rights have been violated. The Human Rights College has concluded that the government has lost important responsibilities. I think you're apologizing for that. But the question is, what are they worth if you don't mean them? The Animal Party has already said to the cabinet: no one has anything to talk about. Saying that Groninger's safety is paramount, and that doesn't prove anything, nobody has anything to do with it. You're still messing with the feelings of people who weren't waiting for damage to their homes, damage in the trust in the government and impairment of the safety of their loved ones. The Animal Party wonders how such a report could be published, which had been known to the Cabinet for a long time, and only two weeks later, because the opposition has forced this debate and the elections are at the door, it seems that it can make excuses. We say it as it is: the Minister is against appearances. The same goes for the Prime Minister, who is not here. "I'm sorry" and don't change the situation as it is now, nobody has anything to do with that. Meanwhile, there are warnings that the security of the Groningen is still at risk from the Minister's gas extraction decision, while we know what we should do to ensure security. If nothing changes, there is no point in talking to this Minister and this Prime Minister about the recommendations of the Security Research Council. Those recommendations are important. I believe that a parliamentary survey is needed to draw lessons from the past and to prevent this from happening again in our country. The most important question today is whether the cabinet shows that what we have apparently done wrong in the past, ignoring security and warnings, can recover today. Only then will his apology be worth something. Only then is there confidence that the recommendations of the Research Council for Security are actually in good hands with this cabinet. We can then find solutions together, because the Groningen people have a hard truth, and we have not solved that tomorrow. However, we must start by being honest. You put security at the centre and then you reason from the question of which gas extraction is responsible and what things stand in the way of bringing the gas extraction back to zero tomorrow. The Groningen are entitled to honesty. They've been messing with them long enough. If the Minister cannot take away the appearance he has against today, the Animal Party will have to say to this minister and the Prime Minister: we have no confidence in it anymore. We need to shut down the gas valve. We need to stop drilling. We need to get rid of the gas addiction. We should not extend further to new drillings, not under residential areas and not under the mudflats. It is only when this is made clear by the Minister that we can continue to talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u8	Madam President. It is good that this debate is taking place, but it is a pity that the Prime Minister did not feel the need to be present. Gas extraction is of national importance, but explaining the past and combating and preventing damage is also of national importance. It would have decorated the Prime Minister if he'd been here. Then he could have underlined this. As far as we are concerned, this debate is about restoring confidence. That confidence is strong, very badly damaged. The report of the Research Council for Security was devastating: Groningen has been considered a kind of wingewest, the budget has been central and security, primarily a government task, has been subordinated to it. We should be ashamed of ourselves. Yesterday, the Minister spoke out in front of RTV Noord's camera, which seemed like an excuse. We would be pleased if he would also give words to this today and indicate the meaning of the words he spoke there and probably speak here tonight. As far as we're concerned, words come with deeds. If you want to work seriously on restoring trust, it will depend mostly on that, not later, but now. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, this is what is at stake. We believe that the recommendations of the Security Research Council should be fully taken on board. Now no ifs and buts. These are still fairly general recommendations. Later, in effect, we can talk about further refinement. I strongly urge the cabinet to accept the recommendations now. I'm not going to repeat the debate a few weeks ago. If you want to restore confidence, I believe that this is an integral part of the process of clarifying gas extraction, including for the rest of this year. This should not remain above the market, as the cabinet, with the support of the coalition, unfortunately now lets happen. Let us also take an elected chamber motion seriously. I am referring to the motion by Mr Dik-Faber, which was adopted last February. Even the coalition parties co-signed it. We instructed the Cabinet to prepare for the mid-term adaptation of the gas decision as soon as the report of the Research Council was published. For more than a year, the Minister has been able to work on this. The report's here. The report is devastating. Now it just needs to be clear. Offer, as far as the Christian Union is concerned. Moreover, there is no need to increase gas extraction in other places, such as in a number of places, or to start gas extraction in new places. Give clarity there too! Gas and budget are connected, whether we like it or not. They've been too connected. For the Group of the Christian Union, it is also clear that, in order to provide clarity about the future, you must also make it clear that you are putting security first. For us, security means going back to what is necessary for security of supply: 30 billion cube, with a small slip in case there is a very severe winter. That is necessary. Anything that is up there or any situation in which there is uncertainty, the Christian Union will not cooperate, even if it is a budget. In this way we want to make it clear that we are really serious and that we learn from the report that safety is paramount. We must also succeed in dealing with damage. We find that it is still very difficult for a lot of people who are in uncertainty. I ask the cabinet to pick up and develop an excellent suggestion from some professors from the north of the country: give a special chamber of the court for the north of the Netherlands a responsibility for this. Those judges can give an independent judgment on cases that seem really insoluble. They may also monitor the further settlement of the damage. This, too, could contribute to the restoration of confidence. I'll mention one other thing. We have mentioned it many times and it comes back in every debate, even in the VAO of just now: there really needs to be serious work on the energy transition. It lags too far behind what is necessary, also in the light of the effects of less leaning on gas than has been the case so far. I urge the cabinet to put a clear plus on the energy agreement as well, to do everything in its power to ensure that the energy transition is sustainable. That is what we need for the future. If we do this seriously, it can also help to restore confidence, which has been damaged in such an incredibly harsh way. The fact that this has happened must concern all of us. I'm not just looking at the cabinet either. There are many involved. We are all involved, so to speak, because we have been clear in this House for too long. That mea culpa fits all of us. Looking back is fine, but now we have to look ahead. Let that happen in a very clear way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u9	I thank Mr Slob for these words. I share it all the way. It is good that Mr Slob says this. Like us, he has been involved in various agreements. He even served in the cabinet once. I wonder what lessons Mr Slob draws from this. After all, we have abandoned this collectively. The question is what the cabinet does with it, but what lessons does Mr Slob see for the Chamber in order to deal with it differently and better in future?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u10	One lesson is that today we say to the cabinet and, on behalf of the group we represent, say that the recommendations must be accepted. No ifs and buts: take over and work out. We will be able to have discussions about the outcome in the near future. We must also make it clear what the consequences are for the budget of taking the decision that less is being pumped up. I didn't make that up myself, but those things are intertwined. That has been too much intertwined. That's what the report is so hard about right now. Income has been central and security has been secondary to it. If you let it hang over the market now that you want to influence that income and want to have it high, you don't learn. That's why I'm very clear to myself. I know it's not a nice decision, because it costs a lot of money. For us, however, security is paramount. For us, it is not acceptable to sit above the level that is necessary for the security of supply, except for that small part when there is a very severe winter. However, with the experience of recent years, we know that this is a theoretical situation. So I cannot take any responsibility either, and I have today issued this statement for budgets that do leave that space or leave that uncertainty hanging over the market. What signal do you give to the people of the North? That we have not really learned and that we take the budget more seriously than their security. We cannot accept this responsibility. That's where I'm clip-and-ready. Hence our position on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u11	I only ask a second question when the answer is unclear. This is a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u12	I read in the press that the Christian Union says that in April 2015 there should be clarity about reduced gas extraction and that otherwise it does not want to talk about the budget. Now Minister Kamp proposes to come forward with an amended decision on gas extraction only by the summer. Does the Christian Union want to hear the Minister's answer today? What is the time when, in April, the Christian Union will be able to see that clarity? That is much earlier than what Minister Kamp now intends to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u13	I didn't say "April." I don't know where that is. I would like to hear today, March 3, 2015, my mother's birthday, a beautiful day, from this minister on behalf of the cabinet, because he is not here in his personal capacity to clarify the entire calendar year 2015. Not the shit that happened a few weeks ago to leave it hanging over the market, something the coalition parties went along with. We go back to what is needed for security of supply. That's what I'd like to hear. If the cabinet does not do so and if a majority of the Chamber supports it, then we, as parties that want to do so differently, and I support D66, too, because I assume that it also believes that gas and budget are linked to each other, can only make it clear where we stand. It's the least you can do. That's a lot, because you're speaking on behalf of your group about your views. That's what I'm doing today. I'm clear on that. I would like D66, a party that also fights for a fairer gas extraction and goes back to security of supply, to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u14	One more question about the recognition of the recommendations made by the Security Research Council. Mr Slob clearly said that he wanted a clear signal from the Minister on all these points. However, they are not about specific solutions. If the Minister supports the main points today, that will be enough for Mr Slob.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u15	There is, for example, a recommendation that in fact says: organize counter forces. It's too much in one place, read: Economics. I think that's a very good point. How exactly are we going to organise these counter forces and what is best? That is not possible in a debate with five minutes' speaking time and not even a cabinet response. I think it is a good thing that we will discuss this later, but it is quite clear to me that we need to organise counter-forces. Unfortunately, we also see in other areas that the government has some sort of blind spot and makes things happen, and only when something goes wrong somewhere. That's what we need to learn from each other. It is broader than just the gas debate, but that is a very pressing point in the direction of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u16	Mr. Chairman. The CDA considers it important that today we discuss in broad terms the solid report of the Research Council for Security on the earthquake risks in Groningen in the Chamber. We thank the Council for its clear report. When this report was published, the CDA asked the cabinet to make an apology. The CDA is pleased that the Minister has expressed his regret. We realise that the Minister does the same for Cabinets in which the CDA has assumed government responsibility. So this also concerns the CDA. We are grateful to the Minister for expressing the apology in this way on our behalf. An important recommendation from the report of the Research Council for Security on the earthquake risks in Groningen is that activities in the deep subsurface should receive adequate attention now and in the future. The CDA supports these recommendations and the other recommendations and would like to hear from the Minister how the cabinet deals with the main aspects of this report. As Minister Dijsselbloem said in the Dagblad van het Noorden last week, this country owes credit to the Groningen people. The CDA is pleased that the cabinet has expressed regret. The question before us is: how is the cabinet going to act? The confidence of the Groningen people has been damaged in such a way that excuses alone are insufficient. Because we still do not have a good picture of the risk analyses at the moment and therefore we do not have the risks for our residents, the CDA calls on the Minister to continue to reduce the extraction ceiling for 2015, as much as possible, as a precaution. The Minister has that responsibility. Is he still willing to do that? Or does the Minister still want to keep open the option of winning that 39.4 billion cube of gas this year? In recent years I have consistently asked the people in Groningen: when has your picture of safety changed? The answer was steady: that was after the earthquake in Huizinge on 16 August 2012. The State surveillance of the Mines advised in early 2013 to bring down gas extraction as quickly as possible. Nevertheless, the Minister decided differently. In 2013, 54 billion cubic tons of natural gas were extracted. That is much more than the average amount of 42.5 billion cuub from the extraction plan, let alone a reduction. The conversion capacity was not used either. How does the Minister's report of the Research Council look back in hand on 2013? During the debate on the gas extraction decision, the CDA has already indicated that the Minister as the competent authority has the appearance against it, because he looks not only at the shares involved, but also at security. The CDA already asked the minister to place security at another ministry. He didn't want to know about that. To what extent does the Minister think otherwise with the knowledge from this report? Is the Minister prepared to make a proposal to the Chamber to organise this differently? Furthermore, we can learn from our neighbors. Unlike us, the Germans are not making it difficult for the burden of proof to be reversed. The problems are being solved generously, with a view to the inhabitants. The Research Council is critical of the KNMI. Because if the State surveillance of the Mines hadn't chosen to make its own calculations by the end of 2012, would the situation have been assessed differently now? The CDA therefore also proposes to fly into German knowledge on this front. We would like to receive a response from the Minister on this point. Is he willing to do that? Now we have to look to the future. The CDA calls on the Minister to finally reduce the extraction ceiling for 2015 for the safety of the Groningers. This is the main lesson from the report of the Research Council for Security on the earthquakes in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u17	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the report of the Security Research Council. The conclusion is serious: for years, Groninger's safety hardly played a role in the decision-making of gas extraction, until the Huizinge earthquake woke us all up. It wasn't until then that security really came into the picture. I should have done that a long time ago. D66 takes place on behalf of this and previous Cabinets, in which D66 participated. Personally, I am pleased that he did so prior to this debate. However, the Minister will understand that despite this recognition, the main question for Groningen is still open: will the gas tap close further? In Groningen there is still disappointment about the debate on this, as the mayor of Loppersum put it strikingly. Can the Minister clarify this issue today? Is he really gonna take that 39 billion cub off the table today? Is he taking the fundamental step that many opposition parties have now taken? The summary of the OVV report is that safety has not been taken seriously. So let the recognition of yesterday's Minister mark the real beginning of a fundamentally different approach, with security at the forefront. Does the Minister fully accept the recommendations? Doesn't just the gas tap close, but also the gas building on the shovel? Does the Minister dare to look at the concession? Does the county get a vote? I shall go into all these points briefly. The gas parties worked too much with a closed system, based on consensus with little room for counternoise. Against this background, it is appropriate to congratulate former Inspector-General Jan de Jong today for having dared to break that suffocating consensus. The counterpower must be better organized. For this, it is necessary for the Ministry of Economic Affairs to look critically at its own position, because that is at the same time shareholder and policymaker. Those roles need to be better separated. The independence of the supervisory authority should also be strengthened. Why shouldn't we put them in the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. In addition to the gas building, the foundation underneath must be kept under review, i.e. the concession. The Minister can only act after a risk has arisen and this can be proven, as the report appears to read. For the evidence, however, he depends on the party that wins the gas. Don't we have a structural problem? Is the Minister prepared to table with the NAM to, safety first, also legally guarantee the concession? The inhabitants of Groningen were out of play for a long time, had no say. They were spoken of, not with them. The gas parties were hardly open to criticism. These are all harsh words from the research council's report. It therefore states that local government should be given a greater role. Therefore, D66 proposes that mandatory advice be sought from the province of Groningen. It can thus play a greater role. Is the Minister prepared to work this out? I've come to the duty of investigation. Gas isn't the only thing we win from the subsurface. Coal, salt, oil and heat we gained from it in the past. Gas extraction, I believe, teaches us that we must not assume that the effects of what we do in the soil are negligible. We therefore need to monitor activities in a structural manner. If, in response to Jan Terlouw's Parliamentary questions in 1971, the soil decline had been seriously monitored since then, we might not have been here today. Is the Minister prepared to set up a broad research programme and to ensure that it is transparent? I am referring not only to research into gas, but also to soil extraction activities. It is important that safety risks are clearly identified during the authorisation process, but also after the end of the activities. Is the Minister prepared to examine the procedures of all mining activities in these areas? Why do mining activities not have the same rights of participation as other spatial planning issues? Before I conclude, I would like to say a few words about the completion of this main debate. We were all there, but she didn't deserve a beauty prize. I am pleased that we can have this main debate with the Minister today, so that we can hopefully give him a picture of proposals that can count on broad support in Parliament. Follow the recommendations of the Research Council. As of today, let Groningen know that gas extraction will definitely take place on a different basis. Safety first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u18	Does D66 share the Christian Union's view that gas extraction and the budget are linked?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u19	Mr Slob has quite rightly said that reducing gas production also means reducing revenue and that this has an impact on the budget. We are all very aware of that. When I took the view, on behalf of my group, that we should reduce gas extraction to security of supply and a safe extraction plan, the D66 Group also realised that this has budgetary implications. We are prepared to take responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u20	Responsibility. That means it's on the same chess board. What does that mean for the position of D66 vis-à-vis the cabinet when it talks about budgets and it is still unclear what exactly the cabinet is going to do about gas extraction? What if even the possibility of further opening the crane is still present and there is still no clarity? Then what is the meaning of taking responsibility for D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u21	I think D66 has made it very clear that the 39 billion cube has to be removed. We want to move towards security of supply and a safe extraction pattern. Whether it is exactly 30 billion cube or just around it, ultimately it is about the effect on the safety of the Groningers. We take them very seriously. We are prepared to discuss the financial consequences of this with the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u22	I, too, would like to be clear about D66, but everyone here is concerned about what safety means first. We can go a long way with each other. The opposition is united: the decision that is now before us cannot be taken. The debate was embarrassing, for the Groningen people, for everyone. The conclusions of the Security Research Council are not easy. The Human Rights College says that human rights have been violated. Legal scholars say that citizens might be able to force the state to shut down the gas supply now. You can see in different ways what level you find acceptable, but you have to begin to explain honestly what the consequences are driven from safety. One of the scenarios, given security combined with security of supply, could be that up to 21 billion cubic metres will be won in 2015 and 2016. Then we're still not here, but you do have those two interests side by side. When the Animal Party asked the Minister to work out that scenario, so that we can then see if that is wise, the D66 Group did not give at home. That surprises me and I wonder what it means to D66 when Mrs Van Veldhoven says safety first. There's got to be some way to prove that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u23	I would like to thank Mrs Ouwehand for the opportunity to explain this. There's a lot of numbers going over the table here. Each time, depending on the stakes in the debate, someone picks up another figure from the report and goes all the way to the lower limit of 21 billion cube or all the way to the upper limit of 35 billion cube. That is why I ask the Minister whether he is prepared today to take a fundamental step. That's saying we're only gonna win what we need and we're gonna use a safe extraction pattern. I think that's important. Then I find it not so interesting to say whether or not 21 billion cub is the right level. I can't judge that here today. At least we can take the first step today. In any case, we know that there is no justification for the 39 billion cube being needed. Today we can take the step towards the maximum that the report shows. I don't think you have to go over 35 billion cubs if you read the reports like that. Let's do that. Let us take the fundamental step together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u24	I agree, however, that that 39 billion cube cannot be defended and that you must at least return to a maximum of 35 billion cube. But honesty commands that this is still a political step, because there would be support for that. But really honest it would only be if you started with the importance of security and then worked out the scenarios. What other interests do we have to deal with? With the security of supply, for example. In Groningen too, people understand that we cannot close the gas tap tomorrow, because people in nursing homes and young families will be without hot water from one day to the next. That's a big deal, too. We all understand that. However, it is only fair if you map that and weigh what you think is justified or not. In my motion I asked for the scenario of the 21 billion cube to be worked out, but we are still not there, because 12 billion cube is actually the maximum from the point of view of security. D66, however, even says no to thinking based on a maximum of 21 billion cube. That surprises me from a party at the same time saying that safety is paramount.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u25	It is important, also for the people who are listening to this debate, to say the following. If we table a motion in a debate containing a maximum of 35 kuub, because we have said in good cooperation in the opposition that we must at least ensure that we serve the entire spectrum, it is a bit strange to support a motion in which 21 billion cuub stands at the same time. We have opted for a fundamental step. That is what I believe we can do and what we ask the other parties to do. It is precisely because we wanted to encourage these parties to do so that we have acted in this way. We are happy to take that fundamental step.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u26	I find the wording of Mrs Van Veldhoven of D66 even a little lean. She said, "We are willing to speak to the cabinet." Given the history and role that D66 played with Minister Brinkhorst on Economic Affairs in the period 2003 to 2006 and in view of the agreements concluded, I would say that we should feel a collective responsibility to reduce gas extraction; that is what we should and therefore also talk about how we can close the financial gap. Can Mrs Van Veldhoven accept this wording?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u27	It's always interesting when someone else tries to repeat your own words. I think that we have shown in recent years that we have always been prepared to enter into the conversation and to take financial responsibility for what we advocate. Of course, we are prepared to do so in principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u28	"Speaking about" and "Be prepared in principle" are cautious wordings. Since Mrs Van Veldhoven does not deny my wording, I assume that these are simply politically cautious wordings and that D66 feels responsibility in terms of: this is an urgent matter and it must be dealt with quickly; this is going to cost money, so if it is possible, we must also come to terms with each other financially.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u29	I think Mr Dijkgraaf is looking for a difference that is not really there. Like recent times, we are looking constructively with the cabinet. How can we ensure that the Netherlands is moving in the right direction? As far as we are concerned, the right direction is to close the gas tap further down to the level of security of supply and a safe extraction level. We have tabled a fine motion on this together. As should be the case in a system in which you have to form a majority with several parties, we will, of course, discuss this. We will then see how we get there. Of course we are prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u30	We have just heard Mr Slob of the Christian Union say that he will not enter financial negotiations unless the crane closes. Is D66 in there the same way? Isn't D66 going to sit at the table and talk about the budget if the crane doesn't shut down?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u31	It's always interesting to see if you can formulate breakpoints in advance. Everyone's dealing with that differently. I think that in a system in which we are trying to move the Netherlands in the right direction, you should at least start talking. It's a semantic question if you call this "negotiation" right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u32	I'm gonna try to get a little clearer where D66 is now. I have often found D66 by my side when it comes to turning off the gas valve much further and the fact that the safety of the Groningers must be paramount. That is what Mr Slob says, but he does say that the Christian Union is not going to negotiate the budget if nothing moves today. What about D66? D66, of course, chooses its own words, but will D66 also negotiate if there really is nothing happening today about the level at which the gas extraction in the Netherlands has been determined by Minister Kamp?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u33	Everyone chooses their own style. The style of D66 is more to start the conversation and see how far you get with it. I think you'd have a better chance of not realizing what you want. I can also ask the other way around. Does GroenLinks exclude that party from the cabinet if nothing happens today? I'm very curious to hear the answer. Mrs van Tongeren can tell me this bilaterally, but I can already see the party leader's nodding; at least that is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u34	Mr. Chairman. I've got the report we're talking about today. At first glance, it looks like a graduation thesis. If you read it, however, you'll see the dynamite inside. Reading you should think about De Prei, the ABN drama, or books about the real estate fraud or Nina Brink. However, these books are not about lack of security and about risks to which people are exposed, apart from their wallets. This report is actually those three books squared. In 2003 there was a summit in the quakes, but almost nothing happened. In 2006 there were more tremors than in 2003, but again little happened. In 2009 there were many more tremors than in 2006, but still little happened. We are talking about a ghost game of all those parties in the 'gas building', as we call it. They hide behind each other, wait for each other and don't give each other the datasets. They spend three years doing a so-called "gas field review" while the need is really up to date. I have a number of specific questions relating to the report. The Minister expressed his regret at RTV Noord yesterday. He said: I am very sorry that the security interests of the Groningen people were not given the attention they deserve. It's nice he said that, but what's the value of that? Regret isn't the same as apology. Does the Minister also mean an apology? In legal terms, "excuse" is a word other than "sorry." If he means the same thing, does he also accept liability? Does he agree that the NAM should apologize to her? So far, she doesn't want to do that. What does the report mean for the injured? It has two dimensions. The first is the right that people can get. You can make the report in addition to Article 21, on habitability, and Article 22 of the Constitution. What's the Minister's position on that? He is not a judge, but he may be able to indicate whether the Constitution has been harmed in this respect. I raised the European Convention on Human Rights last time, but now we have the report in hand. Does the report and what it contains stand at the ECHR? The second dimension is the question of who is going to pay it. The physical damage so far is estimated at 6.5 billion, but we are not talking about the intangible damage. Who's gonna pay for that? For example, can the profits of the NAM be recovered or frozen in the future? Shell and ExxonMobil together made 55 billion profits in 2014. That sounds like a pretty good start. The Minister immediately makes a number of recommendations. My group is not pleased with that. Firstly, the report literally states that research is not intended to be used as an excuse for delaying decisions. What does this minister do? He uses research as an excuse to postpone decisions. Is the Minister prepared to limit the extraction for 2015 to 30 billion cubic metres, preferably even lower, and also to work towards a significant reduction in the years after? The report recommends that responsibility not only be invested with the Minister for Economic Affairs. One day after the report was published, the Minister rejected it. Why is this such bad advice? After all, security has not been properly invested anywhere in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Officials often seem to change places. People within the gas bastion also change functions regularly. Then why is this responsibility not shared? It is also recommended to adapt the so-called "gas building" with all organisations and institutes. Isn't it better to just blow it all up? Isn't the time there to say goodbye to this self-contained club and to put something completely different? Isn't the time to replace all the centres, tables, committees and what else they are in their entirety with something new that makes you happier, with which the Groningers can get out of their way and from which they can benefit? Then immediately turn it into a sustainable energy house. One moment in the description stands out as far as my group is concerned, namely after the earthquake at Huizinge. After all the hiding in a row, after turning around each other, after covering up and denying it, SodM pulled the doorbell. The supervisor was the only one who broke through the closed bastion and went to make an analysis himself. That's weird, because that wasn't really his job. That irritated the NAM and also the KNMI. Why did the Minister turn to SodM's only alarming advice when he followed all the others? Why did SodM's boss retire early a short time later? Was that really his choice? I come to my final point. The main recommendation looks at the restoration of trust. That's the hardest one. Does the Minister honestly think he's still the right person for that? The repulsion in Groningen is life-size. During the previous debate, people were sitting in the gallery crying, while the Minister lingered in technical reflections. The repulsion not only kills the beer in the perimeter, but has also beaten the people's confidence to death, as a Groningen deputy said. That disgust isn't gone. It hasn't been taken for a second. If I were to live there in Slochteren, Bedum or Usquert between the cracks and the struts and have damage that is sometimes not compensated for, I would really be discouraged by that. The trust is just completely gone. I'm really curious if this minister is going to take that back. I think it's gonna take a shape change, some kind of extreme makeover. I'm anxiously waiting for the answer. If things were to work out well, Arjan Bos didn't come here all the way from Groningen on a baking bike full of Groningen soil for nothing either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u35	It's worth a compliment anyway, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u36	Mr. Chairman. "You fucked me, you fucked me, And what surprises me after all these years, That I'll never forget that even though I'm going to be a hundred, You fucked me, you fucked me," This is the chorus from the song Tearoom Tango by Wim Sonneveld. I think it is also a reasonable summary of the way in which the average resident of Groningen looks at the on-kent-us circuit of the NAM, GasTerra, Energy Management Netherlands, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and State surveillance of the Mines. We know us, and to keep it cozy on the drink it is better not to be too critical in the gas building, the Research Council for Security concludes. Although it has been known since 1993, even within the Ministry of Economic Affairs, that the gas extraction involved risks, no one in the gas building has taken the trouble to carry out systematic research to better identify those risks. Critical sounds from outside were ignored. Critical sounds inside, by the supervisor, were kept in chambers. At the beginning of 2013, this Chamber debated the earthquake risks for the first time. The outcome of the debate was that the Minister started a series of inquiries, at least most Members of Parliament would have thought so. However, the Minister did more than just launch a series of investigations. In his capacity as the final manager of the gas building, he also turned the gas crane fully open in 2013. In 2013 more gas was extracted in Groningen than in the previous 20 years. It is unprecedented: start investigations because you have too little insight into the safety risks and at the same time turn the gas tap full open! Or, as the Research Council puts it, it is not intended that research should be used as an excuse not to take measures or postpone decisions. The Minister still uses research as an excuse to take no or insufficient measures and postpone decisions. The Minister's view remains that it should be possible to pump 39.4 billion cubic metres out of the Groningen soil this year. The Labour Party and the VVD stand by, look at it and then do nothing. After all, it all has to be a bit cozy. In that context, I have the following questions to the Minister. Does he still think it is justified to pump up to 39.4 billion cubic tons of natural gas out of the Groningen soil this year? Is safety in Groningen still subordinate to the financial importance of gas extraction? Is the Minister still on the VVD line that we need to do a lot of research, so that we can pump up these ongoing investigations to maximum gas? The Minister apologized yesterday to the Groningen people. That is a start, and we appreciate it, but also here: excuses are no reason not to take measures or postpone decisions. What measures is the Minister going to take with the supervisor and with the Ministry? In order to really do something about the situation in Groningen, we ask the Minister to at least take the following decisions. - Strengthen the independence of State surveillance of the Mines and distance it from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, as recommended by the Research Council. - Reduce gas extraction in Groningen to a maximum of 30 billion cubic metres per year. That's really not too much to ask. In the year 2000, for example, the mining industry in Groningen was still 21.3 billion cubic metres, so that can be done fine. - Make sure that damage is repaired quickly and come up with a decent buy-out scheme as is the case for people in Moerdijk or people living under a high-voltage line. Apologies are a start, but excuses alone don't make Groningen safer. It's gonna take more than that. After these words, the PVV also wants to see actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u37	A few seconds ago, Mrs Klever made a plea to turn off the gas tap immediately, asking why this did not happen earlier. I do have the idea that we should have an alternative. It is not just about the financial importance but also about the energy interest, namely that we need to ensure that we have sufficient energy for our companies and our households. Is the PVV willing to invest much more heavily with subsidies in renewable energy by actively deploying wind turbines and wind turbines? Or does the PVV want to get extra gas from Russia?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u38	If Mr Klein had participated in previous energy debates, he would have known what the PVV's position is: stop exporting our Groningen gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u39	Last year I took part in many debates, but not last week's debate. That was also a very different discussion. Moreover, your comment ignores the question of what the PVV's energy policy is. It can't be based solely on the termination of contracts with abroad, can it? Then you do nothing about your energy policy, but you only break contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u40	I would like to express the PVV's view on energy supply here, although I do not think that is what the debate is for. However, since Mr Klein is asking, I shall tell him. Firstly, we have an excess energy in the Netherlands. There are brand new gas plants that are stationary and not used because we have too much energy. Secondly, we want to stop exporting our Groningen gas so that we can do longer with our Groningen gas. If we pump up less quickly, we'll do longer with that gas. That's safer for the Groningen. Thirdly, we want to stop these bullshit subsidies, those billions for wind turbines. Wind turbines do not add anything to our energy supply, because they stand still for two thirds of the time, and we still need gas and coal plants for the moments when it does not blow or blow too fast. We still have enough energy to take advantage of the technological developments in the world in the long term. They're going very fast. Think of thin film solar cells, thorium energy and fusion. These are all developments that will make our energy supply cheaper in the long term rather than more expensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u41	I hear Mrs Klever expressing all kinds of convictions in a firm tone. She swings it around. I'd like to ask her a question of responsibility. From 2010 to 2012, the PVV was co-responsible for government policy. Does Mrs. Klever know how much gas was won in 2010?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u42	I am glad that Mr Bosman is asking. The whole problem that emerges from the report of the Research Council for Security is that the earthquake risks were known within the gas building, but were kept under the hat. It was not until 2013 that the State surveillance of the Mines came up with the report stating that there were indeed huge earthquake risks. For 2013 this was not known because the State surveillance of the Mines and the Gas Building kept this information under review.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u43	Then Mrs Klever must be extremely pleased with this Minister for Economic Affairs, who took this so swiftly in 2013. However, I hear all kinds of other texts from the PVV. I don't quite understand. Does Mrs Klever now fully agree with the Minister and does she think he is doing good things, or does she think there are other problems? That's what I like to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u44	At the beginning of 2013, State surveillance of the Mines advised to bring back the gas extraction as much as possible as soon as possible. However, what did the Minister do in 2013? He's got the gas tap full open. In 2013, a record quantity of gas was extracted. The Minister led the Chamber to believe that he would conduct investigations and do nothing for the rest, but the gas tap was opened more widely. I very much resent this minister and the coalition parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u45	Mr. Chairman. We are discussing today the report of the Security Research Council and the earthquake risks. The timing is a little strange, because the hearing on the report with the Research Council will take place on Thursday, when we are already having the debate. That is a curious matter, although we shall now be holding the debate on the main points. In itself, the report is clear and the recommendations are sufficient to go further. They are so open that you can devote a lot of debates to that. That is why we are talking today about restoring confidence and we are going to do so collectively. Successive Cabinets have worked hard with ancient gas-addicted parties such as the VVD, the PvdA and D66 on the policy that has now been developed. It is to the credit of the parties that they apologize, Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mrs Mulder have done so for the policy of D66 and the CDA of recent years. That is the problem you also see in the report. No one has taken responsibility in recent years. The only force there was was the power to drill, to extract the gas and to devoid of it in large quantities. The report is clear. However, we must be careful not to create a complete apology culture, although it is to the credit of the Minister that he has now indicated that he has not dealt with the safety of the inhabitants of Groningen carefully. I want to get one thing out of it. From a liberal perspective, it is very important to arrive at checks-and-balances. That is why we would like to see a similar structure in the gas building as in a State participation like the NS, in which the Minister of Finance has a different role than the Minister of I and M. We call for this to be done in the gas building too, where you would need three ministries to be able to achieve this. In this way, the safety of the inhabitants of Groningen and the proper resolution of damage can receive proper attention. I look forward to seeing the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u46	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Research Council for a thorough and comprehensive investigation. Many of the speakers before me have already indicated that it is a shocking investigation, and I share that. The conclusions don't lie. They point the finger at the functional ignorance of the NAM, at cabinets of a different color and at the Chamber which does not take sufficient measures and considers the measures less important than the finances that come out of the gas bubble. Today is the day on which we must work to restore confidence. Earlier, we had a debate on the sector of gas extraction, but this report was published afterwards. Actually, I only have two points. I will not go into them very extensively, because colleagues have already gone into them in detail. I think there are only two really important points. The first is that the Minister is 100% politically responsible. This is the Minister of Economic Affairs. He's responsible for the gas extraction. Politically he is solely responsible and we control his policy. That is why I ask the Minister to fully accept the recommendations of the Research Council: to distance SodM, to involve other ministries and to ensure that less gas is produced. I think that today, preferably all of us, we need to clarify what we are going to do and what assurance we can offer Groningen. It is worth noting, on the basis of such a report, that we have not taken safety seriously enough for more than 20 years. I therefore urge the Minister to be prepared to do so. We know the Minister. He wants, often rightly, always to figure out everything to the last detail, to have all the investigations done and to know all the points and commas. I often appreciate that, but today is such a time when we have to say politically to each other: we will have to work out a number of details, but now we tell Groningen that we are leaving behind the twenty-year period of uncertainty, in which we have not stressed security enough and have looked too much at the financial importance. I would also ask the Minister to focus not only on the recommendations on better monitoring and less gas extraction, but also on reducing gas use. We do not need gas, because we do not need gas. I am thinking of energy saving, the use of residual heat, geothermal energy and so on. I know that there will be a note on this, as the Minister will undoubtedly point out, but let us make haste about it. If we now decide to bring gas extraction back this year and next year, we will not be able to slow down gas consumption and stimulate sustainable use. Mr. Chairman. This was the minister's political responsibility. My second point is the collective responsibility we have as a Chamber. If I see a line in that respect for the last 20 years, I'll be shocked. The same applies to what my own group, including myself, has done in my own actions. There were all kinds of signals, Mr Smaling made that very clear in 2003, 2006 and 2009. We had indications to ask through. That is why I do not agree with Mrs Klever, who has so far been the only one to say that we did not know it during the period 2010-2012, when the PVV also supported it, and that we did not know it until the report came. We should have known. As a chamber, we had reason to ask through, and we didn't. This means, in my view, that we have a collective responsibility here, all of us: parties who have been in the government, parties who have tolerated and also those who have stood by and could have asked for the problems that existed. Signals were full of them. I've put together 20 years of chambers. The parliamentary debates that have taken place and the parliamentary questions that have been asked, they are there bar, bar little. Some questions have been asked, but often on the surface and not in depth. That is why we believe that this is my last sentence, but then I believe that we will have to take collective responsibility from now on. It would be nice if we, as a Chamber, could take a unanimous step today: follow-up of the recommendation and less gas extraction, thus regaining the confidence that the Groningen lost.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u47	In itself, it is right for Mr Dijkgraaf to assume collective responsibility here. Mr Dijkgraaf was not at the hearings we held or at the technical briefings in private. I was sitting there saying that here I was open and bare and I had a strong feeling that I couldn't seem to force people to give honest answers: the NAM, the KNMI, all the clubs involved. At that time I thought: it seems that a parliamentary survey is needed to clarify the background to the decisions. I understand that Mr Dijkgraaf says that the Chamber should have asked questions and insisted more. I am afraid, however, that the picture is that the structures as they are built have consciously taken on board to make good criticism and putting the finger on the fact that it went wrong very difficult, for everyone: for the people in Groningen, for the independent experts who came with critical sounds and also for the Chamber to check that. Can Mr Dijkgraaf sympathise with such a sketch, also in view of the evasive answers we have received from the NAM and all the experts?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u48	That's a clear question. That is exactly why I think we, as a Chamber, have failed. The feeling that Mrs Ouwehand sketches here, of reassuring words from the NAM, from TNO and from the KNMI, is exactly, as you can see in the report of the Research Council, which has taken place over the past twenty years. I asked Koos van den Berg, a former MP of the SGP who was in the Chamber for a long time, how he did it. It was then about the Betuwe line, which he has always opposed and which has also become a financial drama. I asked him how you do that now as a member of a small group with those stacks of reports and all those hearings that you can't always attend. He said: a good MP must have fingerspitzengefühl. He's got to feel something's wrong at some point, and then he's got to ask through. That's my main point, that we didn't do that to each other. That feeling you're making right now and that we all have now, we should have had ten years ago. We didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u49	In itself, I agree. I honestly think that if you wanted to check this as an individual MP, you couldn't have done anything else. Then you have to bite yourself and just run behind that information from the Cabinet, which we can also read in the report of the Research Council for Security, which was not necessarily aimed at making it easy to put the finger on what was not right. Mr Dijkgraaf is now beginning to say that responsibility must also be placed with the Chamber. I would also like to know from the SGP Group whether it is working with that of the Animal Party to ensure that the budgets for the functioning of the Chamber, in order to be able to do the controlling work, are not further affected. After all, savings are being made. Many politicians do not dare to say that they do not want to affect those budgets further. However, I think this is very important. We stand here on behalf of the people. We're checking the cabinet on behalf of the people. We have to be able to do our job well. That's what we need support for. It would be nice if more parties than just the Animal Party would dare to say that out loud, even in election time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u50	The SGP is against additional budgets for political parties. We believe that savings should be made and that the government should be reduced. As a member of a small party, I am also convinced that there is absolutely no need to increase that capacity if we are to organise this fingerspitzengefühl sufficiently. For that feeling you usually don't need that much time. You have to be alert when you think, boys, something's not right here. A signal was indeed already, Mrs Ouwehand herself says, that it is all organised under one heading, that it all has interests that point in one direction. So that was already an indication. An indication was also that not enough happened with the fact that all those tremors took place. So I think we had enough capacity in Chamberwide. After all, I have that responsibility, Mrs Ouwehand has that responsibility, and we have that responsibility in the Chamber together. In that sense, we should also check this with each other. And with each other we have a lot of capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u51	I hear Mr Dijkgraaf talking about fingerspitzengefühl and about the opinion of a former Member of Parliament on this matter. Let's say a small fraction feels something's not right. Well, then someone from support would have to figure that out for a member of parliament from such a group, wouldn't they? Hundreds of officials work at the ministries. Many people also work at the NAM and at all other organisations. However, a small group like the Animal Party only has two MPs, while its members want to change so much in the Netherlands. So they do have the fingerspitzengefühl, but not the support. That is why I cannot understand the opinion given to him by Mr Dijkgraaf's colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u52	I can only give one opinion to Mr Öztürk: invest in good staff. We're getting a large budget from the Chamber. If you have good employees, you can handle these kinds of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u53	Well, well; this is a little advice from Mr Dijkgraaf that I will take with me. But even though you have good employees, the topics we are dealing with are so broad, so substantive and require so much expertise that you need multiple employees to be able to properly control the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u54	Yes, the SGP has three Chamber seats and we have ten employees. That's how much budget we have. So we do have several employees. When necessary, we do indeed sometimes put several employees on a subject. We have not yet experienced the need to say: we think this is important, but we cannot handle this because we have too few employees. We have not yet experienced this, despite the fact that the SGP has a small group. Yes, of course we would like to do more debates and attend more meetings. That's tricky, but that's why there's an election campaign. That's where you try to get more seats. That is the democratic way. However, democracy already costs a lot of money. Let's just make sure we take responsibility. Let us not throw any more scarce taxpayers' money at it. In any case, my group is satisfied with that. However, we must fulfil our task and our responsibility day in and day out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u55	Mr. Chairman. We appreciate the work and recommendations of the Security Research Council, but in concrete terms it will not help the inhabitants of the earthquake area unless concrete measures are taken. The frustration, the nuisance and the feeling of insecurity will remain if these measures are not taken. Only excuses have nothing to do with the residents. The Minister's apologies must lead to concrete consequences. There's got to be compensation. That's fair. That is why we propose that 10% of gas revenues be paid into a compensation fund for residents every year. With this compensation fund, the problems of the inhabitants can really be solved. After five years, there is about EUR 4 billion in it. There's a lot you can do with that. As far as we are concerned, any good plan is welcome if it really solves the problem. In the previous debate, we presented our own structural solution. We propose to buy out the residents of the risk area at a very generous price and a very generous removal allowance and then to offer them as a collective a very attractive residential alternative in Groningen, so that they can make a new start in their community in a new place. From the original risk area we want to make a nature reserve. Against our plan people understandably feel a lot of resistance, because it hurts to move out of your own familiar environment. But our plan does offer a real structural solution, which in any case is fair. Honesty is a key word. That is also entirely in the spirit of what the Research Council says in its report. We, as politicians, must finally be honest. There's an uncomfortable truth to that: turning off the gas tap doesn't solve anything for the residents. It is a dummy solution, because all experts agree that earthquakes will continue to occur even after the gas tap is turned off. There's gonna be a little less of it at the most. The political parties that are so keen to push for the reduction of gas extraction to 30 or 20 billion cubic metres must be consulted on their own. Are they really solving the problem? Or are they fighting with the best intentions for a dummy solution? Politics must stop its hopeless chatter. We must now come to a concrete conclusion. Dare to think differently, dare to be righteous and dare to compensate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u56	Mr. Chairman. A Groninger who would have been around 40 years old told me how he had become used to the earthquakes under his village: tinkling glasses on the table, rumbling in the background. At that time there were no earthquakes in the media and Parliament did not discuss them. If residents complained, it was said that the sound and vibrations might have been caused by overflying fighter jets. The population of Groningen, of course, knew better. For the inhabitants of Groningen, for the population, the report of the Research Council for Security that we are debating today is therefore not news. It's a wretched conclusion. For decades, the parties involved in the extraction of gas have acted carelessly. The safety of the population of Groningen has been neglected. The rights of the people of an entire province of our country have been violated. Hard work has not been properly seen year by year, decade after decade by all concerned. The same applies to politics. Cabinet after cabinet has not seen the misery caused by the extraction of fossil natural gas in the lives of our citizens, whose interests we serve.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u57	Those are strong and firm words from the PvdA Group. Does the PvdA Group now regret that the opposition has pushed through this debate about against the sense of the PvdA and VVD groups? I quote a reaction in the media: it is a political game that is being played here; there really needs to be more time taken; the opposition knows that too, so if you hear trouble in my voice, it is because of all the games in The Hague. Does Mr Vos now use great words when he says that this debate is urgent, as the report says? Or is Mr Vos now taking part in a game in The Hague and is he reluctantly standing here because the opposition has forced a quick debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u58	The Research Council for Security has produced a very thorough report of 140 pages. As my colleague Klein has already reminded us, it is a bit harsh that the Research Council will be heard by us here on Thursday. We stand here first to take each other's measure, before we have heard the authors of the report properly and before we have properly allowed the Minister to give an assessment of the report. If Mrs Van Tongeren asks me if I regret the position I have taken on the way in which the opposition has requested this debate, I say no. I think, however, that there is still some extra apology to be made today. Apologies to the Research Council, which has done such good work and is then dealt with in such a way by Parliament. I believe that the Chamber is above all self-defeating by dealing with this report in this way. Nevertheless, because Mrs Van Tongeren and her colleagues were so keen on it, I supported this debate together with my colleague in the VVD. If we enter into the debate, I will make a political judgment here with the Chamber. This political judgment has just been heard by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u59	I am still not feeling the necessary sense of urgency in one of our two governmental parties, to my dismay and great regret. The main conclusion of the OVV is not that he wants to hold a hearing with the Lower House, but that the Empire and the operator feel neither urgency nor responsibility. I hear the PvdA say this again today. The security of the Groningen people is so urgent that the opposition has therefore stood out here day in day out, until the PvdA and the VVD were finally ready to debate this. I find this regrettable and disappointing. I had hoped that the PvdA would now say: yes, we also consider it incredibly urgent that this debate is now on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u60	What helps the Groningers is that the gas extraction has been reduced. In 2013, a scandalous 54 billion was won and under pressure from the entire Chamber, the Labour Party, a maximum of 42.5 billion was set. Then, on the advice of the SodM, gas extraction was further reduced to 39.4 billion. All parties together then heard the SodM in a technical briefing and a hearing. We then decided, the Labour Party first again, that it was not enough. We have done a lot in the media, and the cabinet said: we will reduce gas extraction to 33 billion plus 2. That'll help Groninger. Gas extraction is very reduced. This was urgent and happened on 11 February, one day after the previous debate. The decision entered into force immediately. I think this was a very good decision. The research council's report, which we are discussing today, has been working for a year. This is very good, because it involves major changes to what is called the gas building in the Netherlands. Many companies, institutions and politics are working on this day in and day out. If you want to make changes to this, you have to do so carefully. If the Minister says he wants to have six weeks to think about how he can translate the recommendations into action, I do not think it is in itself a wrong position. I've said this before in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u61	Mr Vos uses a lot of big words. He says that we must draw the political consequences today. Is Mr Vos prepared today, contrary to a few weeks ago, to draw the political consequence and say: we are forcing the Minister to drop that 39.4 billion? If Mr Vos really wants to draw political consequences, he will draw them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u62	Under the responsibility of this cabinet, under the responsibility of this minister, gas extraction has been reduced from that scandalous 54 billion to 42.5 billion to 39.4 billion and now to 33 billion. I think these are very good and decent steps. Mrs Van Veldhoven said earlier that D66 was also guilty here and Mrs Mulder said: it was also in our cabinet that this happened. Mrs Van Veldhoven may say that things have to go a little further, but I am drawing the line here. The engineers who are conducting the investigations into what is currently needed for the security of supply in the Netherlands and our neighbouring countries have made it very clear that the limit is 33 billion and should not be exceeded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u63	I can only observe that Mr Vos has you-bricks for the opposition, but that he has not dared to support the motion that set 35 billion cuub as its maximum. If he's willing to do so today, I'd like to offer him another chance. I am prepared to indicate the limit of 33 which he has now expressed as an indicative figure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u64	I have asked the government to return gas extraction and prepare a extraction decision based on the lowest possible level of gas extraction necessary for security of supply and security. I therefore do not wish to limit the extraction of gas. After all, I would give the impression that the extraction of gas can still go up a bit, which is exactly what I do not want. I am concerned about the lowest possible level. The motion I tabled on 12 February, which was adopted by this Chamber, gives exactly that order to the cabinet. The same motion also says that we support a reduction in gas extraction in Groningen to 33 billion cubic metres per year. A great deal of uncertainty is constantly being created here, because we are trying to catch each other flying, but that is the hard facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u65	If your neighbor hits his wife, you mind, you try to do something about it and the compromise is that that neighbor hits a little less hard or doesn't use his fists anymore, then that woman is still not safe. I am deeply disturbed by the defence that the Labour Party is constantly putting up: the gas extraction was so high and this is the first cabinet to turn off the gas tap. That's not safety first. As far as I am concerned, the coalition had a point that we should take the time to discuss the details of the recommendations in the report we are discussing today. But if we are told that the safety of Groningers has been ignored and that warnings have been wrongly dismissed, what is the difference between the period the OVV has investigated and now? Even now we have been warned about what this level of gas extraction still means for safety? Even now, we know that more winning means more and heavier tremors. What is the difference between what the Security Research Council says to us about the past period and what we know now? And what does that mean for our actions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u66	The OVV examined the period until the end of 2013/beginning of 2014. It's the decades behind us. This minister had joined September/October 2012 and was almost immediately confronted with earthquakes and with the advice of the SodM. Then the Minister said: I think this is a very serious matter. Then he filed 14 inquiries. In the same year 54 billion cubic tons of gas were extracted, which we considered to be very serious. But then, under political pressure from you and your colleagues, the Labour Party played a very important role in this, if I may say so, from 54 to 42.5, to 39.4 and to 33 now. I think that 33, with the justification of the engineers of GtS, is actually the lowest possible level that we need to maintain at the moment. That can change in the future. We asked the Minister to provide a report by 1 December in which we could perhaps go even further through the use of nitrogen, through another extraction system and so on. I imagine we'll go down even further, but at the moment that's unwise. We are now waiting for the mining decision of 1 July. On this point, in an approved motion by PvdA and VVD, the Chamber stated that the Minister's decision of 1 July should be based on the lowest possible level of gas extraction guaranteeing the safety of the citizens of Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u67	Let me say something nice: the Labour Party is indeed trying to increase the pressure to reduce gas extraction. But that is something other than accepting that the extraction of gas remains at a level that is stated in the gas extraction decision against which we are warned. So I ask Mr Vos again. I do not understand it, but I know what his defence is to choose this position and say: it is unthinkable that gas extraction will go up again; we are thinking of 33 billion cubic metres. None of that matters. We've been warned. The safety of the Groningen people is in danger. Gas extraction, as it is now contained in the decision, poses an unnecessarily high risk to the safety of the inhabitants. What is different about that than the decision-makers who have made so many mistakes for us according to the Security Research Council? We've been warned now, haven't we? Why does the Labour Party not take responsibility for saying that it was wrong, and we need to apologize for that, and we are not going to do it again today, 3 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u68	I really don't see it that way. I think it is a very sensible decision to keep that 33 billion cube as a minimum. If you dive underneath it, there is a chance that you will have to open the wells in a severe winter, especially in Loppersum. That's where the most pressure comes from. If you do that, you create a greater risk to security than if you win stable and flat on the 33 billion cube, at least until 1 July. The suggestion that gas extraction has not been reduced is, of course, wrong. If you put a meter at the wells, you know that 33 billion is currently being won on an annual basis. That is quite different from the many billions of cube that were previously won. The suggestion that there has been no reduction is therefore incorrect. If you take the difference between the 39.4 billion from very recent and the 33 billion from today, it's a 25% reduction. Then all we are talking about is the latest reduction in the gas extraction that this cabinet has carried out. I admit that this has been achieved after great pressure, and I think that is no secret of my party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u69	Mr Vos said earlier in his speech that the report contains no news. Is that really what he means? Does he mean that he already knew most of what was in the report and that it didn't bring him any surprises?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u70	I do not quite recognize myself in the picture that is being sketched. Maybe I don't understand, but the conclusions in the report of the Research Council for Security are, of course, extremely serious, staggering, appalling. Those are the words I used before. The government's policy on gas extraction in Groningen has failed. The safety of the people of Groningen has not been handled carefully. The decision-making and closed system with which gas extraction was organised was responsible for the incorrect assessment of the effects of soil decline and earthquakes. That closed and closed group of people, that system, was also responsible for the lack of adequate and sufficiently independent scientific research. The consequences of this have been poignant for citizens. Houses are appalled, walls are torn and residents are no longer safe in their own homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u71	I heard "no news" in between, but that has been corrected. If I hear Mr Vos speak in this way, does that mean that the Labour Party thinks that those regrets should actually be excuses and that the cabinet accepts responsibility for what has happened over the past 20, 25 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u72	The remorse, as expressed by the cabinet yesterday, is justified. Groningen has been exploited. The consequences of these exploitations have not been recognised or recognised too late. The recognition of the wretched situation in Groningen came about only reluctantly during this cabinet period. However, now that the recognition is in place, my group also considers it right to note that this cabinet is the first cabinet that has actually taken action.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u73	The conclusion of the research council's report is in fact that the Chamber and the Groningers have been fooled for years. You also fooled the Groningen people in the previous debate. Are you going to fool the Groningers again, or are you prepared, with the knowledge of this report of the Research Council for Security, to stop cheating on the Groningers with empty promises such as "invincible" and "lowest possible"? Are you prepared to establish here today in black and white that that gas tap is being turned closer to 30 billion cubic metres?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u74	Gas extraction in Groningen is currently reduced to 33 billion cubic metres plus 2 billion cubic metres for emergencies. I think this is very sensible, because GTS has investigated in detail what exactly is the minimum on which we can deliver the gas in the Netherlands without compromising security of supply. This security of supply concerns homes that are heated, the cookers that are cooked, but also our industrial plants that produce products for our people. I don't think it's wise to go below 33 billion. I can very well imagine that there are parties, such as yours, who think 30 billion is better, and that is a very legitimate position. However, I do not think it is justified and therefore I support the cabinet in setting it at 33 billion. The difference between 33 billion and 30 billion is also not very significant in the light of the reductions I mentioned earlier. It is still about 3 billion cubs, but of course it is quite a different story than the difference between 39.4 billion and 33 billion, not to mention that horrible 54 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u75	I do not think Mr Vos has read the report of the Research Council properly. It says that the citizen must be taken seriously and not be made a political game with all kinds of vague phrases. Every time Mr Vos talks about the 33 billion cub, the PvdA did not support any motion in the previous debate, whether it was 30 billion, 33 billion or 35 billion. Mr Vos has not supported any motion, so what is his guarantee when he talks about a maximum of 33 billion cubic metres? He didn't give any guarantees. Is he prepared to give that guarantee in writing in a motion now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u76	I believe that the Labour Party has tabled a rather concrete motion in the previous debate. That motion has also been passed. It's in writing. Mrs. Klever can read that motion, or I'll still have it here for her. The motion states that the Court shall give its assent to the reduction, with immediate effect from 11 February, of the extraction of gas at the lowest possible level of 33 billion cubic metres per year for security of supply. We call on the government to prepare for gas extraction after 1 July a extraction decision based on the lowest possible level of gas extraction necessary for security of supply and security. We also ask the government to make it clear how gas extraction can be further reduced on 1 January 2016. That is not unimportant, but it may have been a little underexplored so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u77	I see here a PvdA that is beating wildly around him. It's all the opposition's fault, and it's got to cover up the fact that she just made the tarp. Gas extraction has not been reduced, as the option is still open that it will eventually be 39.4 billion. So what Mr Vos is saying here is simply wrong. Gas extraction has not been reduced for 2015. I have the motion in front of me. I have also heard Mr Vos say that it should all go to minimum variants, but that is not the way the motion is structured. He wants to take that 35 billion as a minimum. According to the CDA Group and other opposition parties, you have to see if that can't be lower. For example, that could be 30 billion cube. That one severe winter is decisive for the 35 billion. Isn't the PvdA fraction just trying to throw sand in everyone's eyes again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u78	I've seen it before. How shall I put it? I don't recognize myself in that image. I will refer again to the text, which can be read for everyone. We call on the government to prepare for gas extraction after 1 July a extraction decision based on the lowest possible level necessary for security of supply and security. That motion was passed by the House of Representatives. If Mrs Mulder had supported it, she might have contributed something to safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u79	I note that the PvdA Group is making a great deal of a caricature of this debate and that it is really failing the people of Groningen. It could have gone further down. This PvdA group did not choose to do so. In fact, it still leaves open the option that it will eventually be 39.4 billion cube by this year. That's for the PvdA to charge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u80	The suggestion that gas extraction has not gone down is incorrect. If you place a meter from 11 February to measure the amount of gas flowing out of the Groninger field, you'll see that it's 33 billion on an annual basis. That's what we agreed on here. The suggestion that it is more is incorrect. If you say that on 1 July we still have to see how things are going, of course you are right. I also asked the Minister to look at the situation again on 1 July. Maybe it could be lower than the 33 billion. I also very much wanted the 30 billion, which your party is in favour of, but I do not think that is justified at the moment. Is the extraction going up after July 1st? I would like to say once again what we discussed with each other on 12 February: no, it is not going up; that seems to me physically impossible at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u81	We've heard of that little wiggle. The last time it was called "invincible," but in the meantime the ceiling remains at 39.4 billion. We will perhaps once again give the Labour Party the opportunity to strengthen that position today. One of the other recommendations of the report concerns the involvement of the province of Groningen in the decision-making of such a ceiling. Does the Labour Party also consider that the province of Groningen should be given a strong voice in this, for example through mandatory advisory rights, from which the minister can only deviate in a reasoned manner? What is the position of the Labour Party on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u82	The disadvantaged position of Groningers has been ignored. The neglect of the right to safety has been unprecedented. The consequences of intervention in nature were dramatic. I can therefore very well imagine that Groningers, just like those who have already been given the dialogue table at the present time, will be given a different place than they have had in the past. My group believes that all recommendations in the entire report of the Security Research Council should be fully taken over by the Cabinet. It is necessary to move forward now. The gas building needs to be refurbished. If you ask me what exactly that will look like, I say: 'This is what we call a major debate in The Hague. We wanted to debate each other very quickly. Now let's see what the cabinet's reaction is. Then we can continue to discuss this with each other." However, it seems clear to me that the Groningen people must be given a different place than they have had in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u83	It is always good to see that colleagues are well prepared for a debate and that they have prepared a response to all these issues. A general debate is, of course, simply intended to give the Minister some direction in the points on which he could think, so that he has a feeling for which there is support in the Chamber. That is why I would like to present the proposal on advisory rights to Mr Vos. Would that be a way? The dialogue table is just a place to be heard. Shouldn't it be a little more than a dialogue table, but really an opinion that can't be ignored?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u84	The Labour Party's group demands that the Cabinet take full account of all recommendations, the entire report of the Security Research Council. That seems to me to be a very clear position. If you ask me to go into detail, I say, "Miss Van Veldhoven, I know you as someone who likes to grow up, and for a while you have done so. But there, in trade-K, is the cabinet and you are in the Chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u85	Mr Vos says that we make it a game of words, but that is because questions are answered evasively. May I put the question in this way: does Mr Vos exclude the fact that the Labour Party will support a proposal based on extraction above 35 billion cubic metres in this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u86	It seems to me impossible for the extraction to go up on 1 July.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u87	Then I think there's only one word wrong. Then Mr Vos could have simply supported Mrs Van Veldhoven's and me's motion. He says: it seems to me to be out of the question. That gives room again, because then there may again be reasons to rise above the 35 billion. Is it not possible for the Labour Party to support a proposal that will win more than 35 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u88	I think I am talking about my own words in this Chamber. I have tried to answer the questions that have been asked properly. I also have the right to co-sign motions or not. I did not like the motion tabled by Mrs Van Veldhoven and a number of other motions. Why not? Because we want the cabinet to look carefully at what is going on and maintain the lowest possible level of gas extraction that is necessary for gas extraction. Because we as a coalition party share that government responsibility, we would like to see good research done by SodM. Then we'll discuss with each other what the sequel will be. At the moment, that 33 billion m applies and on 1 July 2015 we will speak again. Until then, I'm not going to support a motion that puts a cap on it and locks it at the top, while I want it to go further down. It's not what I want.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u89	More than a year ago, Minister Kamp himself wrote to the Chamber stating that 30 billion m is needed for security of supply, with a possible small slip up if there is a very severe winter. That same number came back to the hearing and was given to us by Alterra. I think there are already clear statements on where the level should be. However, it is pulling a dead horse if we are now trying to get out of there together. I'm sorry about that. For the restoration of the Groningen people's confidence, it would be a good idea to clarify this and not to use words that are inflamed, so that there is still a lack of clarity. I am glad, however, that Mr Vos is very clear on the recommendations of this report. He's come here reluctantly, but he'll come up with news. He said that these recommendations should be fully implemented. That is good, because we would like to give this task to the cabinet in this main debate, so that the cabinet can get on with it. Compliments for that! I would like to ask one more question, which has to do with the handling of the damage. Unfortunately, there are still a lot of problems. From the north, the proposal has been made by five professors to give a special chamber to the court responsibilities, so that it can independently assess those difficult situations and follow the course. That is quite possible in the technical sense. What does the PvdA think of that proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u90	Yesterday, the King's Commissioner in Groningen, Max van den Berg, told him that every day he gets poignant stories from citizens about the problems they have in getting compensation for damage. I repeat that, if not all the damage cases are resolved before the end of this year, the PvdA will take the view that reversal of the burden of proof will have to be included in the Mining Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u91	Reversal of the burden of proof is one. The second is that, in order to restore confidence, the independence of the review and monitoring of the settlement can also be secured if you give that special chamber of the court of the North Netherlands a responsibility. I would like to pass on this suggestion to the cabinet and work on it further. My question to the PvdA is once again: would it like to put the cabinet to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u92	I think this is more a question to the cabinet than to the Labour Party. Our position is that people in Groningen have not been adequately helped. In the past, together with GroenLinks, we have established the Groninger Gasombudsman. We have often drawn attention to all the problems that exist. We have set up the committee on poignant cases. I'm a little hesitant right now to create something new. I think that we are a little done with the creation of all kinds of bodies and that we should reverse the situation. Citizens should then be compensated for their damage unless proven otherwise by the NAM. As far as I am concerned, this applies if at the end of the year, unlike the Minister's promise, not all the poignant cases have been eliminated. I repeat that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u93	I too am pleased to hear that the PvdA says that all the opinions in this report should be taken over from the Research Council. My question is about the supervisor. Does the PvdA, like GroenLinks, think that the supervisor should be given a more independent position, as the Research Council also states?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u94	One of the recommendations of the Research Council is about the supervisor. The wording in the report is that a more independent position must be found. I think that is a very correct definition, in particular to support the confidence of the people of Groningen. I am very curious about the reaction of the cabinet, which can only be expected in more detail in a few weeks' time. It is clear, however, that when I say that the Labour Party demands that all recommendations be taken on board throughout the report, this also applies to the part concerning a more independent position of the SodM. Moreover, I do believe that the SodM has done an excellent job, as far as I can tell. I have never had the impression that people there have been silenced or silenced by the way in which things have been institutionalized at the moment. I would have liked to have said that, but I would like that recommendation to be accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u95	I am glad to hear that, because GroenLinks also thinks it is very important that remote surveillance of Economic Affairs and independent regulation is carried out. GroenLinks has tabled a motion on this subject, which at that time could not count on the support of the PvdA, but I assume that the PvdA will indeed accept all the recommendations of the Research Council and will therefore support this motion. This is the first cabinet that has really been in the process of making gas extraction safe. I begin by noting that Mr Vos also sees that this is the first cabinet to work from the report of the Parliament's Research Council to make gas extraction safe. Because let's face it, the highest gas extraction in 25 years was in 2013, with 54 billion m of gas. So I am very happy that from now on, hopefully, we will also find the PvdA at our side to make gas extraction safer. I understand the doubt about the height of this year's crane. I'm very sorry about that. I hope the PvdA will come back to that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u96	I have not seen a question in the positions of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u97	There is a final interruption by Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u98	I'm just gonna try again. You never know; maybe something will come out. The recommendations are fairly general. Then, of course, we can say: we leave the whole thing to the cabinet to submit a proposal to the Chamber. Or, as a Chamber, we can try to give the Minister a general impression of a direction that could count on support in the Chamber, precisely because we are debating the question "how exactly?" We're still gonna feed each other. There are two parts in the report which I wonder if Mr Vos can say anything more about. Is it a question of strengthening the research obligation of the mining companies only in terms of gas extraction, or should it be a broader issue of all kinds of mining activities? I am, of course, pleased that the Labour Party also endorses the recommendation on State surveillance of the Mines. Does she have any idea how we could sort of shape it? Should supervision, for example, go to I and M, which has been mentioned before?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u99	The Members of the Chamber have asked for a broad debate. The main line seems pretty clear to me. The Labour Party's group demands that all recommendations in the report be taken over by the Cabinet. Mrs Van Veldhoven and some of her colleagues would like to highlight a point or make a point here and there. I don't think that's necessary. The report is staggering, appalling and resentful. The Minister travelled to Groningen yesterday for a reason to express an apology for the entire population of Groningen. That could be a first step towards restoring trust. I do not think this is the time or place to put those points on the i. I will, of course, read the motions tabled by Mrs Van Veldhoven and her colleagues, but I will also make a motion, as I did last time, which sets out my point of view and which will reflect what I have just formulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u100	Mr Vos also heard me express my appreciation in my first term of office for the fact that the Minister took that step and expressed his regret. So we have no difference of opinion on that. Then the question is: what are we using this debate for? Are we using this debate to help the Minister to come forward with proposals which will then be supported by a broad majority in the Chamber? I would find it useful to use this debate for this purpose and to discuss with the Labour Party more or less desirable directions, regardless of the motions that are being tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u101	The task of the Chamber is to control the government and to co-establish legislation. I have given my political opinion on the way in which this cabinet has dealt with gas extraction and the security problems arising from it. Mrs Van Veldhoven did so by pointing out together with her colleague from the CDA that all parties and all previous Cabinets have been debited, so they were guilty of not putting that security at the centre. That's serious. The people of Groningen have been wronged, as has often been said. So it is very good that something is happening now. Perhaps we still have some differences of opinion on the extent to which, but I think the main line is clear. I think we all agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u102	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u103	In fact, I am ready for my final comment, because I have already been able to 'fold' large parts of my text in my answers, as it is called in parliamentary jargon. You're learning! Correcting everything that has gone wrong is a matter of national importance. I can't say otherwise: it's a debt of honor to the Groningen people. I do not think that we are debating this issue for the last time today. We've got a lot to make up for, and that's gonna be small steps. After all, trust goes on horseback and comes on foot. Right now, we're all pedestrians.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u104	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, on the eve of this debate, a "sorry" finally came from the government for the fact that for decades too little attention was paid to the security and interests of Groningers and not to mention the people in Friesland and Drenthe. I thank the Minister for the gesture he has made, although it was unfortunately necessary to come to this point that the Security Research Council issued a destructive critical report. The five recommendations in this report are crystal clear. 50PLUS thinks the minister should embrace it. The current Minister has apologized, but almost all parties involved in gas extraction over the last 50 years have failed. The lack of checks-and-balances for the very important economic and financial importance, read: the sole authority of the Ministry of Economic Affairs over gas extraction, has been absolutely inconvenient. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, that has to be different. The provincial government of Groningen itself has also failed. Already in the 1970s the province had access to a secret report showing that the soil could drop to 150 centimeters. When the first quakes began in the 1970s, these signals should have been taken seriously. That didn't happen, because the financial interest went beyond the interest of the Groningers. It is striking that the NAM continued to deny the relationship between gas extraction and earthquakes until 1993. 50PLUS understands very well that the Groningers are angry about how the damage has been compensated and handled so far. It is high time everyone took responsibility. The Minister's apology, or whatever you want to call it, is a good first step, but it is no more than that. The Groningers feel rightly in many cases deceived and abandoned for far too long. Remember: the whole of the Netherlands is warm today thanks to Groningen. We have seen the bill too late and then put too much out for us. That debt of honor must now be repaid. We must not leave Groningers and the entire affected region in the cold and offer generous solutions without delay. Can the Minister indicate what additional solutions he himself has in mind? Finally, the frequently asked question of how much of the gas should be closed. Whatever it takes, I'd say. That must be the starting point. How and in which phaser this should be done is then a point of further consideration. However, one thing is certain for 50PLUS. The account, we said it a year ago, even though all of us, who have taken the fruits of gas extraction for decades, will have to pay for it. We can't escape that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u105	Mr. Chairman. This main debate concerns the report of the Research Council for Security on the earthquake risks in Groningen. It has become a solid report with equally firm conclusions and recommendations. I too would like to thank the Research Council very much for this research. It provides a basis for the way we should proceed. I would also like to thank the Minister who asked for this investigation. Because of his proactive commitment, this report is now there. The report made it clear that until 2013 security was not on the retina of all those involved in the gas extraction: NAM, Shell and Esso, successive cabinets, provincial authorities and the Chamber. The VVD has also assumed responsibility in the past. I acknowledge that in the past we did not have safety on the retina either. It is now time to learn from the mistakes of the past and look to the future. It is good that this Minister has raised the issue of security and taken action. We must not repeat the mistakes of the past. So we must also ensure that no mistakes can be made. The Research Council itself states that the structure of the gas building needs to be fundamentally adapted. The conclusions and recommendations are very important. Because they're so important, the VVD asks the minister to just take them over. One of the most robust recommendations in the report is Recommendation 2. I'll read it to you. "Make sure that the citizen's perspective is taken into account in the decision-making process by giving province and municipalities a role." A clear role is therefore crucial. Groningen and the Groningen should be given a role in decision-making. I couldn't agree more. This will improve communication and make decision-making more transparent. We should not now decide how this role should be fulfilled. I would like to talk to the directors of Groningen about this, exactly in line with this report. There's been a lot of talk about Groninger. There is now a need to speak with the Groningen drivers. What place, what mandate, what power of perseverance, what responsibility do the leaders of Groningen wish to have in the role of that decision-making? That is not an easy question; I know that too. However, I would like to hear from the Groningen administrators how they want to fulfil that role, because it is really up to them. It is not an easy task to fundamentally adapt the gas house. I wish the Minister every success, and I look forward to the cabinet response at the end of March.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u106	I am pleased that the VVD also wants to fully accept the recommendations of the Research Council. My question is mainly about the fact that Mr Bosman says that we had also heard in the media that he thinks it is very important that provinces and municipalities should be given an important role and that residents should be heard. Those directors shall have an elected mandate. So it's not about what the drivers who happen to be there think, but about what the Groningers think. I think the VVD has agreed to the establishment of a state coordinator. This government coordinator would now have mandated responsibilities from the province and municipalities of Groningen. Responsibilities either go from the municipalities and the province to the state coordinator, who, in the proposal supported by the VVD, is under this minister's even more central power, so either you think about whether such a government coordinator is so wise and whether the Groningers should not get any more into the milk in terms of gas extraction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u107	That report is solid, and I think it's important. We are now giving substance to the role of the drivers and the Groningers, whereas I find that inappropriate. In fact, I think that the fact that we are having this debate before we have spoken to the Security Research Council is really inappropriate. That is why I am sorry that we are having this debate now. I feed it heartily, but it's actually too soon. After all, we have not yet been able to speak to the Security Research Council and, therefore, we have not yet been able to pass on certain conclusions to it. We have not yet been able to ask questions. And that's when all these things do fit in with a Chamber that thinks she takes the information seriously. The report states very clearly: give the directors of Groningen a role. I want to give those drivers a role, but not by telling them how to do it. They must be given the role to fill that in themselves. That is the conclusion of this report. We consider the report to be very important, but in the meantime this Chamber is giving substance to matters, while the conclusion is that the directors have that role.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u108	The opposition did not fill this out, but the government parties did so with the establishment of the National Coordinator. It has already been decided to remove responsibilities from the directors of Groningen municipalities and the province of Groningen. I hope that I will listen carefully to Mr Bosman, because I think it is very sensible for him to say that we need to think about this again. I also do not blame Mr Bosman for not knowing a motion from GroenLinks from 2013, because he only recently had this dossier in his portfolio. In that motion GroenLinks already asked for the municipalities and provinces to be involved. I therefore assume that Mr Bosman will pass on to the National Coordinator and take over powers from provinces and municipalities and that he will not only listen carefully to the directors who happen to be there, but also to the people of Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u109	The core is that central coordination will implement plans to improve the living environment as quickly as possible and to give people perseverance power in the implementation of strengthening, improving and remodeling. The gas building is another control model. We are talking about how this is to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u110	I say to the VVD the same as to the Labour Party. The coalition had a point, namely that you have to take the time for the details, for what has to change. Fortunately, the VVD says that it acknowledges that it did not have the security in its sights and that we must avoid repeating mistakes. I would therefore like to put a fundamental question to the VVD. The Council of Inquiry has intimately reminded us that safety has been ignored and that warnings have been sent to the wind. That is also the case today, or can the VVD make it clear to me what exactly is different from the situation that the Research Council has examined? Now we also know from reports by the Minister himself that 12 billion cuub is actually the maximum you could win for security purposes. We also know that there is a range for security of supply from 21 billion to 35 billion cuub. If we do not act from that perspective, what do we do other than the directors of whom the Research Council rightly says they have ignored safety?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u111	One of the most important conclusions on safety and security, I believe, is to give those drivers a role. That is also a very clear conclusion from the Security Research Council. It disturbs me to some extent, perhaps I am getting a little more intense now that we in the Chamber decide again and again how this should be. That's really up to the drivers. Give the drivers their roles; fill them in, but listen to what they want. Do they want an alignment position in advance? Do they want to have an advisory function after they're done? Do they want to take responsibility? Do they want to take financial responsibility or not? There are hundreds of thousands of questions to ask, but I'm not going to answer them. That's up to the drivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u112	I didn't ask about the drivers. I drew the attention of the VVD to today's situation, namely that the Chamber and the Cabinet have been warned of the risks to the security of the Groningen people. The VVD was there by itself. More gas extraction means a greater risk of heavier and more numerous earthquakes. The Research Council for Security says, looking back, that the interests of the security of the Groningers in all those decisions were constantly subordinate. In fact, we are now in the same position. We now have the opportunity to show that we are concerned, that the cabinet is sorry and that we will not make any further mistakes. The warning that winning more than 12 billion represents an unacceptable risk to the safety of the Groningen people must we take seriously? If you don't want to decide today to bring that winning down to 12 billion, do you have to at least look at what this means?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u113	The Minister has taken a clear position by applying a reduction and by dealing with it very carefully. In the meantime, he looks at the possibilities and inability to look at gas extraction in a different way. We had this debate a few weeks ago. You just said that we should be careful not to make the same mistakes. However, we are about to make exactly the same mistake in this Chamber that is mentioned in the report, namely that we do not give the drivers a role, that we decide here in the quickness what it should look like. That's crucial. It's just literally in there. You want to take a selective look at the recommendations. It's possible. I have the recommendation right here. I read this one and I can do it again. I believe that the role of the drivers is essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u114	The VVD embraces this solid report from the Research Council for Security. The CDA Group appreciates that. A clear point in the report is that State supervision of the Mines has already said in 2013 that production should be reduced as much as possible. As a coalition partner in the cabinet, the VVD has the opportunity to implement this. The report is very much concerned with safety. I can imagine that the VVD also realizes that production can go further down than that 39.4 billion cube for this year, before 2015. Is the VVD Group prepared to clarify after reading the report and say that extraction is going back further than the 39.4 billion? Is it prepared to say, like the PvdA Group, that there is a maximum of 33 billion cube this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u115	I think it's almost inappropriate. The discussion is no longer about the report of the Security Research Council. I find it almost too bizarre for words and the Chamber almost unworthy. We're talking about the mistakes we've made in the past. That's what we need to learn from. You completely ignore a number of crucial elements in the investigation and start a gas bingo. I think it's inappropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u116	That the VVD group reacts in this way is not worthy of the VVD. I distance myself from this way of speaking. The CDA believes that all recommendations should be taken on board. I just complimented the VVD on doing the same thing. In addition to apologies, as far as the CDA is concerned, it is appropriate to take a follow-up step for the safety of our Groningers. That means the production has to go further down. Mr Bosman of the VVD then calls it "bingo." I don't know how he plays bingo, but this way you shouldn't be playing bingo.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u117	Let me read it again: "Make sure that the citizen's perspective is taken into account in the decision-making process by giving province and municipalities a role." We are always ignoring this crucial point. We are acting as if we are going to resolve it here and ignore an important point of the Security Research Council. I think it's inappropriate. We haven't even talked to those people yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u118	Those are great words from Mr Bosman. The main conclusion of the report is that for years there was no regard for the safety of the Groningers. There was mainly an eye for the treasury. In the year 2000, we won 21.3 billion cubs. Apparently that was enough. However, the Minister holds on to that 39.4 billion cub. Does Mr Bosman think that the Minister is doing everything in his power to improve the safety of the Groningen people? Or does he think we're kidding the Groningers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u119	First of all, the PVV runs away from its own responsibilities in this story. I don't care if it bothers me. She too has played a role in the whole dossier. It is about security and it is about reaching the right decisions in the end. To make good decisions, you have to learn from your past mistakes. We are about to make another mistake by saying: okay, the municipalities and the province do not get that role. I think that's crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u120	I find it shameless how Mr Bosman works here. Any question about gas extraction he tries to bypass by coming up with attacks and saying that we don't take the report seriously. The whole Chamber will take the report seriously! That is precisely why we need to increase the safety of the Groningers and that is precisely why we need to close the gas tap a little further. Mr. Bosman is just cheating on the Groningers. He doesn't want to turn off the gas valve anymore. He does not answer any of my colleagues' questions and he does not answer my question. Does he think 39.4 billion cub is safe from the Groningers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u121	This is a repetition of the previous debate. We are talking here about the report of the Security Research Council. Mrs Klever is turning it into a gas extraction debate that we have had in the past. It's about how we learn from the mistakes of the past. If Mrs Klever sticks to numbers, I find that unwise, because it is not justified. With that, we do not indicate that we learn from past mistakes. And I'm very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u122	I am disappointed that the VVD's only suggestion is to propose a completely cosmetic adjustment of yet another few drivers to that much too full gas building. If Mr Bosman had read the report correctly, he would see how many institutes have played a role in it over the past ten or twenty years. That's way too many already. They've all been waiting for each other and standing behind each other. The NAM did not provide datasets and the supervisor was the only watchdog from time to time, but often not. How does Mr Bosman propose that you, with a few drivers, fundamentally change that gas building? He can't be serious, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u123	That is the problem of this debate. We don't have a cabinet response yet. We have not yet spoken to the Security Research Council; I have not yet been able to ask any questions about it. We have not yet had a round table to talk seriously about it again with everyone. This debate is really untimely. Then you get these kind of debates, which get very annoying, about where exactly we stand. We should probably get back to the main line. What's the problem? The gas building is a problem. One of the main reasons given by the Security Research Council is that the municipalities and provinces have not been heard and have no role in it. I say to this Minister that all the recommendations are equally good to me, I think they are important and they need to be implemented and addressed, but I think that one recommendation is very important to me. I'll name it. I don't know how to fill it in yet, because I haven't spoken to the drivers. I do not yet know what they think of that responsibility and at what point they want and can take it. You can shout very loudly: Mr Bosman is not filling in. Then I say: it is right. It is a major debate, and it is an untimely debate because we are too early and have not yet been able to speak to everyone. You shouldn't blame me for that. You can blame yourself for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u124	That report isn't that thick. The fact story reads like a Kafka novel. That is probably something Mr Bosman has been aware of. The gas building is full of parties that don't want to. I haven't even mentioned EBN; that's what's going on. The NAM does not make its datasets available. That's all very serious. All I hear is: add a few drivers and the gas building can continue. Surely Mr Bosman cannot think that this is the commitment of the VVD when she looks at that whole report? Do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u125	Mr Smaling is not listening very carefully, I have to say. 'Cause I'm saying a lot more. It's a great concern for everyone. We've all noticed that. If I listen to you correctly, we agree that these recommendations need to be taken over, all of them. That's what I said. I also promised and asked the Minister. So that too is nothing special. The only thing I would like to emphasise, if you would like to blame me for emphasising something, is that I find it strange that I think the role of the drivers in that house is crucial. I think this is a crowbar function for all the other operators, all the other functions that are in that gas building. I think they can play a crucial role in this. It is not a question of adding a number of officials, at least I hope so. I think that leaders from Groningen are skilled people who are perfectly capable of regulating their own parliament and that this is a much bigger and more important role than Mr Smaling is proposing. I really do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u126	I heard Mr Bosman say a number of times that this debate is immeasurable and inappropriate. In the past, I myself, the Christian Union, have also found this to be a subject of debate. We'd just stay away. We said: if everyone wants to debate, go ahead, but we are not participating. Of course, Mr Bosman could have chosen that. However, I am pleased that he is here, because I think it is significant that he says that the recommendations should simply be accepted in full. I also share his view that we should not go further than that. We can discuss this later, including in conversations with others. However, the Court makes a clear statement: these recommendations must be taken on board. I do not understand one thing, and that has to do with the height of the gas extraction. Last year, it was in January or February, hold me that for the better, the VVD co-signed a motion from the Christian Union in which the cabinet was instructed to make all the preparations for immediate interim action on the level of gas extraction at the time when the report of the Security Research Council was due. The VVD signed up for that. Now is the time to do that. That's what we need to talk about now, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u127	The Minister has taken a number of steps. He's done that in advance, in anticipation of things. In principle, therefore, this is already being implemented. I think you should take an integral look at it. What is the problem of the past? I am really convinced that we should not take a short turn here, without listening to the drivers, saying: boys, we are really going to do things differently. We should not impose pressure on the gas building in that way. It was precisely the decision-making of the past that was the problem. If I read the report correctly, that was the problem. If you do not tackle that decision-making system, the same mistakes will be made in the future as in the past. I'd really hate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u128	All directors, including the King's Commissioner on national television last night, are simply saying: go back to what is ultimately necessary for security of supply. You can then have a discussion with each other about whether it is 30 or 33 billion cubs, but citizens and drivers give a clear statement. We have discussed this a great many times over the past year. We have a bit of clarity about that, too. If we want to work on restoring trust, then surely this is the time. I would have preferred it to have happened a few weeks ago. I don't understand why the VVD and the Labour Party would dive away and move that a little further. You don't have to do that, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u129	There's no question of ducking. Only, making a statement on television is something other than having a role. That means that you have a responsibility in the gas building, that you really have a function there and that you can really decide with it. However, I think it is important to know how people decide. Is that in the front and they say, okay, I'm gonna send it in front, because that's where I have a responsibility? Or is it at the back and they say: I give advice and then we see what happens to it? Those really are the extremes of the spectrum. The fact that a driver on television says that the Chamber should only do something about it doesn't make sense to me when you look at the report of the Security Research Council. I therefore say: Commissioner of the King, you will be given a role; which one do you want? But then that person is also appointed and has a responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u130	This has put an end to the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u131	Before we begin, we agree that in this period four interruptions per group are allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u132	Mr. Chairman. Today we are holding a major debate on the report of the Research Council for Security entitled Earthquake risks in Groningen. That report came about after an investigation I asked for myself. In the whole of what I was doing with regard to the extraction of natural gas in Groningen, I felt it necessary to have an objective, independent assessment of how it is and how it is handled with regard to the safety of the Groningen people. That report, which I asked for, has arrived and is now on the agenda. I understand it's being dealt with for the first time in the Chamber. There will be another hearing, as I understand by now. I will also comment on the report myself. Legally, I have up to six months to do so, but I don't think it's justified to take those six months, so I'm going to try very hard to give that reaction within six weeks of the publication of the report. I hope, therefore, to give this cabinet response before the end of this month, and I await the opportunity for the Chamber to discuss it again. You know, when the Chamber calls me, I come. That's why I'm here today. The spokespersons have all indicated in their own terms how they assess the situation in Groningen. Like them, I believe that the situation in Groningen is serious; I do not want to choose superlatives for a moment. As a result of gas extraction, many earthquakes have already occurred and we know that more earthquakes will follow. There's damage to homes, with everything that comes with it. That is what people get on their roofs; they are just confronted with it. Not uncommonly, it's repeated damage. You can imagine what that means to people. There is also damage to industrial buildings and to image-defining buildings. Sometimes they are farms, sometimes they are beautiful houses in villages................................................................................................................................................................. This damage also affects the people in that area, of course. People also have concerns about the resolution of that damage. They're facing it. It needs to be looked at. They have to respond to that. It has to be fixed. There's going to be a whole mess around, which they're not getting anywhere with, except they're getting it back at its best as it was originally. If, as I just said, they are faced with damage again, you can imagine what that means to those people. There is also a disturbance of the housing market. People have not only put their souls and salvation, but often also their money into their homes. If what happens now and for a long time then it has an effect on the housing market as a whole. This is not about the value of their house, but also about the ability to sell their house. This, of course, has a major impact on the situation in Groningen as the people who are experiencing at the moment. Of course, the feeling of insecurity in your own home is also very bad. When unsafe things happen, everyone tends to retreat into their own home. You'll fall back on that, but that's where the Groningers feel unsafe. There's a lot of stuff going on with the houses right now. They get the necessary reinforcement, which takes place on a large scale. There's a lot of people involved. They often have to leave their homes for a certain period of time and have to live temporarily in another house while something is being done with their homes, after which they can return. All this combined with that feeling of insecurity loosens up a lot with regard to their own home. It is an area with a strong social structure, but people still want to leave. You can see that social cohesion, which is normally very strong in the regions of the Netherlands and is developing very gradually, is under real pressure in the area. That's bad for the people who live there and want to live there. Moreover, they also see an image deterioration of their own region. It's their own area they're proud of, but it's constantly being talked about as an earthquake zone. This leads to all kinds of effects, not only for the home but also for the attractiveness of entrepreneurs to settle there. In the background to everything that I have outlined, there is also the question that people feel very strongly that they are being wronged, because the whole of the Netherlands has benefited from the extraction of natural gas since 1963. I believe that until 2013 gas extraction has already raised 265 billion, of which 100 billion since 2006. The whole of the Netherlands benefits from this. Our social security, our public health is largely built on the income from the Groningenveld. The people in Groningen feel they're in trouble. That's what's going on. From the moment I've been on EZ, since October 2012, I've been working very intensively on it, but looking at the whole, the safety of the people is the most important thing. It was absolutely necessary to look at how that security has been dealt with. That is why I asked for this report, and that is why the Chamber can now discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u133	The minister says that the Groningen people feel that they have been wronged. I think we can see here that this has actually been the case. The College of Human Rights has pointed this out to us. The conclusions in the report of the Research Council for Security are also not easy. Does the conclusions of the Security Research Council give the Minister any reason to limit gas extraction further than is currently provided for in the Mining Decision for safety reasons?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u134	What do you want, Mr. Chairman? Do you want me to build up a logical argument, or do you want me to remove an arbitrary point immediately at the first interruption and take the next random point at the next interruption? Then I'll give you another story, but I'm like laundry in your hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u135	Perhaps you could give us an overview of when the subject will be discussed. Then we can do it that way, but I haven't gotten that list yet. Hence the question. Mrs Ouwehand, the question you are now asking by way of interruption has already been raised by several parties in the first period. It is therefore obvious that the Minister will return to that point. So we can also decide to give the Minister an opportunity to answer the questions of the Chamber in his own way. If that does not happen, you can, of course, come back to the microphone, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u136	I was just making an introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u137	I want to go along with your reasoning, Mr President, but I am standing here so early because I am still ashamed of how the previous debate went. The people in the public gallery and the people at home want clarity. So I want an answer to this question as soon as possible. I would like to inform the Minister, through you, Mr President, that it would be nice if we could get that answer quickly. Then we don't have to perform that very embarrassing display again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u138	The Minister had begun his reply. I think it is right that we should now listen to this. Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u139	I have said on security that I think it is the most important thing we have to defend. That's why I asked for the report. The report's here now. I think it's a clear and thorough report. I'm grateful, like the spokesmen, for that. The Council states that the inhabitants of the area depend on the parties involved in the extraction of gas for their safety. Those sentences touch you deeply as a politician, as someone who has to take responsibility for public administration. That's the way it is. The inhabitants of the area depend on the parties involved in the extraction of gas for their safety. The most important party is, for my part, the government. That's what I'm saying, because I'm standing in front of it and I know what kind of influence that party has. People in the area can trust that the parties involved in the extraction of gas will ensure their safety. However, the Security Research Council says that until 2013, the earthquakes were not seen as a security issue. We've been there since 1963 winning natural gas. People assumed that we would guarantee and defend their safety, but the parties involved in gas extraction did not see the earthquakes as a security issue. The board says that security did not affect the decision-making on the exploitation of the Groningenveld. The Council then concludes that the parties concerned, i.e. everyone involved in the gas extraction process, have not handled the safety of the citizens of Groningen carefully. Those are the harsh conclusions the Security Research Council draws. In addition, the Research Council states that there was no comprehensive, independent research programme until 2013 to map the deep subsoil in Groningen and its mechanisms. Of course, you need to know that to see what the security risks are and to be able to defend the security interests of the citizens. The Research Council stated that all this was the case until 2013. I can't help it, but I didn't get to Economic Affairs until October 2012, as I said. Well, I've been in various cabinets for a long time. As a member of the Cabinets and as a long-term member of this House, I am personally responsible for what is going on here. It is not just a responsibility that I have formally or that only concerns my predecessors. It's just my own thing that I'm dealing with myself. The investigation findings are now in place. The question is how to proceed. If you have such a thorough report, there must be a proper response to it. I can't do that in six months, because I think that's irresponsible. I can't do it in six weeks. However, I would like to comment on one of the key points of the report, because I believe that this is a condition for improving the situation in Groningen. This is also what the Research Council says: it is a condition for improving the situation in Groningen that all those involved in gas extraction recognise that they have not handled the safety of the citizens of Groningen carefully. I recognise that all those involved in gas extraction, especially the Ministry of Economic Affairs, should have paid more attention to the safety of the citizens of Groningen. That attention wasn't enough. I regret that this is how it happened. I am very sorry that the security interests of the Groningen people, the people who were counting on us to defend their interests, have not received the attention they deserved. That safety is now paramount; that is obvious. He's gotta be in the lead, too. I will do everything I can to achieve the improvement that the Groningers are right to ask for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u140	The Minister repeats the words he also said yesterday at RTV Noord: 'I am very sorry'. He also uses the word "sorry." Is that some kind of excuse? How are we supposed to explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u141	I used the word "recognize" as well as the word "repent." I said I was very sorry the way it went. That's how I feel, the way I judge the situation and the way the cabinet sees it. That's why I'm moving on. I've done a lot and I'm moving on. This is, with my own words, the feeling I have. This is the description I'm giving you. I understand that some people ask: yes, but what about the word "excuse"? Mr Smaling asked whether there was any direct liability. Let me leave that alone and just say what I think. That's what I did with these words. I am very sorry that things have been the way they have been. The people who depended on us for their safety, the parties involved in gas extraction, and who thought they could rely on us, are disappointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u142	I hear the Minister saying that he wants to stay away from the use of the word 'excus', also in conjunction with damages which may arise from it. We do have a history here. Last year we had a whole discussion about the commemoration of slavery, 150 years after the abolition of slavery. Minister Asscher then went to Amsterdam; I was there myself. He also took the word "sorry" in his mouth. That was also the load of "we're not going to move on because otherwise it might untie something." In fact, I hear the Minister say that it has nothing to do with that and that he wants to take full responsibility for what has happened in the past with the words he used. As Minister of EZ, he may have been responsible for only a small part, but he also takes responsibility for everything that has happened among his predecessors, for that is his position, no more and no less.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u143	No, I chose my own words here. I believe that what the Research Council has put forward should be recognised. I have just described the problem and have to acknowledge that it is. Secondly, I regret that it has happened, but I find the word'sorry' too weak. I would therefore add that I am very sorry. As I said, people rely on us and on us, they can rely on us. They are disappointed in that. I'm very sorry it happened that way. I choose my own words on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u144	Mr Slob brings it up early. I was waiting for the point to be raised. "Sorry" and "excuse" are essentially different words. There is a legal difference between this, which makes excuse for the Groningen people much more relevant than regret. Does the Minister agree? Is he not deliberately using the word "excus" because of the far-reaching consequences it would have for the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u145	I've tried to put in words for myself how I judge that situation. I've been a government executive for a very long time. I know about the responsibility you have and people trusting you. Why are you in the public administration and what do you have to do? I judge that whole situation and I have chosen my own words for it, namely to acknowledge, to regret and to regret it very much. Those are my words.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u146	Mindful things like the history of slavery and remembering Rawagede in Indonesia, there is of course a load on the word "excuses." I think it is important to know whether, against that background, the Minister deliberately does not take that word in the mouth. Is he saying that he is going to use the word "excus" in the near future and that that is the consequence of liability, or does he not want it because of the heaviness of that word?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u147	That is Mr Smaling's approach and I am happy to leave it to him. He talks about slavery, about excuses and about liability. I've chosen other words. I have other feelings, and I have expressed them. That's what I want to say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u148	It is a relevant discussion, but I think two things are needed: the recognition of and the apology for what has gone wrong and the proof that the cabinet is not going to let that happen again. I would therefore like an answer to my question. There is now a report from the Security Research Council, unlike a few weeks ago when we had the same debate here. The facts have remained the same, except that they are now in black and white. Is this reason for the Minister to bring down the extraction of gas and not to stick to his mining decision as it stands, but to put safety first and to substantially reduce that ceiling from the safety perspective?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u149	I was in the process of introducing an argument that this is part of. I don't care. I can try to answer any question at any time. Shall I do that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u150	I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u151	Then I will. The Chamber has had a separate debate with me on the extraction of gas in this current year. Motions have also been tabled, some of which have not been adopted. A motion has also been passed. That is the outcome of that debate. Now we have a report from the Security Research Council and that is on the agenda. If I have just had a debate with the Chamber, I do not need to do it again. I had already decided, well before that debate, to put a cap, a limit, on the extraction of gas of 39.5 billion m for this year. A lot has happened around that, as Mrs Ouwehand knows as no other. It then came out that we presented the dates 1 July and 1 January. In the past, a gas extraction decision has always been taken for a period of ten years. I've reduced that to two years. I have also said that, in the middle of the second year, the application for the period after that should be made again, because on the basis of the new information, I want to look at it all over again. In the present circumstances, as I have said, I find two years too long. I would like to have a re-evaluation on 1 July and a re-evaluation on 1 January. That review on 1 July focused on what I was given as a minimum security of supply at that time. The Gasunie, GasTerra and other stakeholders discussed this with each other. They have said that in the case of a cold winter there should be a minimum of 33 plus 2, as Mr Vos says, that is, 35 billion m in total. It was said by me, even during the debate in the Chamber, that besides the 39.4 billion m3 the 35 billion m3 is also shown. A motion was then adopted by the Chamber stating that the answer to the question of whether it will be 35 billion m3 or 39.4 billion m3 will be based on what is appropriate for the safety of the Groningen people. This means that I now have to make sure that this decision-making process is properly prepared on 1 July. If you still have the patience to do so, Madam President, I would like to outline what needs to be done to enable that decision to be taken on 1 July.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u152	It seems to me relevant to the answer that the Minister is doing so now. Then he told his whole story, after which Mrs Ouwehand can ask her second question. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u153	In order to be able to take that decision on 1 July, it is first and foremost necessary to know what basic accelerations in Groningen we need to take into account at the different levels of production. What about that? In 2012, I believe the production level was 47 billion m. The following year it was 54 billion m. The following year, the level was 42.5 billion m. Now there is a level of 39.4 billion m in the picture, but there is also a level of 35 billion m in the picture. It has been said that, in anticipation of that level of 35 billion m, we are going to be at a level of 33 billion m in the first half of the year. Let me say a few words about a possible even lower level. However, it is a question of what the effects of all these different levels are for ground acceleration. That's the first thing we need to know. Secondly, we need to combine the results on these ground accelerations with the data that applies to the buildings on the Groningen field. What about the strength of the houses and the other buildings? What can they and what can they not have? Those data must be combined with each other. If you have identified the risks, then how to weigh them must be assessed. To get this whole thing done, there's a lot to be done. There are five working groups currently working on the first two points I have just mentioned. Experts from all over the world have been gathered. They've been sitting in those working groups, and now they're figuring it out. There is also an advisory committee, again with those experts from the world. They must accompany all of this and ensure that that information is available on 1 May. That's the assignment I gave you. I have already included in the mining decision that, on 1 May, on the basis of the results of the work carried out until 1 May, I would like to have an analysis of the risks and what I should do on the basis of them. I'll take that data to the SodM. People from the SodM have told me that they, together with their regular advisors, need about a month in order to be able to assess that and give me an opinion on what should happen as of 1 July. Then I'll have that advice on about June 1st. This must then be prepared for political decision-making. This requires official advice. Maybe things need to be figured out. I myself have a decision to make on my proposal to the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers then goes into that. I said that there would be a decision by the Council of Ministers by 1 July at the latest. That decision will therefore be taken by 1 July at the latest, but if there is any possibility of doing it in a responsible manner earlier, I will of course not fail to do so. However, this is the planning that I have in mind at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u154	I've been watching the clock for a while. I think I asked the Minister at 8:25 p.m. if the gas extraction goes down. It's almost 8:35 now. I hope that in his life the Minister does not receive very often irreversibly proposals, because he therefore takes a lot of time to say 'no'. We now know that the safety of the Groningers demands that we bring the gas extraction further down. That shouldn't happen with a little bit, but really big. We knew this three weeks ago, but the difference with the situation at the time is that the Research Council for Security now, in addition to what we knew then, has written in black and white that the safety of the Groningen people in the past has not been sufficiently taken into account in the decisions. We felt that at the time, because the report had been leaked, but now we know it too. If the Minister is not prepared to change his gas extraction decision now, what exactly is different about the period that the Council has examined, in which he says that there were critical noises, warnings and signals about what should have happened from the point of view of security, compared to today? After all, they are now also there. The Minister's reports speak of up to 12 billion cubs if you were to serve the security interest sec. The Minister's reports say: a range of 21 to 35 billion cubic metres if you want the importance of security of supply to be taken into account. If we do not turn those warnings into action today, then surely we are no better than those directors who write the council and to whom the minister feels compelled to say: I am sorry that it has happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u155	I'm being asked a question. I'm trying to give a serious answer to that. Mrs Ouwehand then looks at the clock and says that it took ten minutes in a way that she wants to say: I have nothing to do with what you say. I don't think that's wise. I'm trying to give serious answers to serious questions. It's not wrong to listen to that at all. In addition to what I have just said, an alternative based on security of supply will be presented before 1 July. In anticipation of the assessment of the alternative, it has already been said that, if we choose to do so on the basis of safety considerations, it must be possible to introduce it retroactively from 1 January. So we're getting ahead of ourselves. We even go a little further than we anticipated. Until 1 July, we will be sitting for the time being at a level of 33 billion on an annual basis. I said that this is not the only thing. I'm going to see if the whole system can be turned over as of January 1st. Then we will no longer, depending on exactly how it is in the market and on exactly how high the border is for the Groningen gas, consider whether, in addition to the gas we obtain in Groningen, there is another gas that needs to be recovered from abroad and what needs to be converted to bring that gas to the quality level of the Groningen gas. No, we'll start importing gas. We are going to process that with our maximum capacity up to the quality of Groninger gas. Depending on the temperature in a year, we will supplement it with an x-quantity of Groninger gas. I'm gonna check out that system. As I have already indicated to the Chamber, the problem with that system is that you will then have to deal with varying quantities. And I need to see what's going on with security. Is that safer? Or is it safer to sit a little higher on a stable level? That's what's happening. Perhaps Mrs Ouwehand does not think that this is easy enough, but the world is not always simple. We are talking here about the gas extraction in Groningen, which has been running since '63. We are talking about 98% of the Dutch households that are connected. A lot of families in the neighbouring countries are also dependent on them. If you decide on that, then it is wise to prepare those decisions properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u156	Mrs. Van Tongeren has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u157	Mr President, this was not an answer to my question. Shall we establish that here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u158	This is what you have done. Mrs. Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u159	I heard the Minister say in an interim that he has withdrawn the decision on the ten-year ceiling. I may have missed that. But first, I'd like to ask you about the apology. I'd like to know what's going on with the Secretary of State. We heard his lyrics on TV yesterday and we hear the same lyrics here again. Those words from the minister right. Of course, I'd rather have them a little more sharper. But why did it take the minister two weeks to find him sorry? In general, ministers respond to other reports from the Research Council either on the day itself or within a few days. Is this minister going to put pressure on Exxon and Shell to acknowledge that security has not been the top priority? We have already heard the representative of the NAM. That said so far, at least in the media, that that was absolutely not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u160	As far as the latter is concerned, I have spoken out on all the parties involved in the extraction of gas. That is my view. I have expressed my recognition for this from my own perspective and responsibility. Mrs Van Tongeren mentions other parties: Shell and ExxonMobil. You also have their joint working company, the NAM. We will see exactly how it formulates and how it does, but I am responsible here. I have my own big responsibility. I also have to answer to the Chamber. I use my own words for that. What time did I do that? I did not react immediately the day after I received the report, because I intended to come forward within six weeks with a thorough response to a thorough report. I would have liked to bring all the things involved, including my assessment of the main point of criticism of the Research Council, together. The Chamber has now decided to invite me to speak on this matter. I will go into the recommendations later, but I think it is right for the Court to give a ruling on that key issue now. I did that yesterday and today, both times in the same terms. It would also be a bit weird if I said one thing in Groningen and the other in The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u161	Madame van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u162	Perhaps one last point, Madam President, because Mrs Van Tongeren mentioned the ten-year ceiling. In the past, a mining licence has always been granted for ten years. One was given for the period from 2006 to 2015. Later in 2011, this was reviewed and the period 2011-2020 was taken. When I came, I said I couldn't get out of my way with those long periods. I have set the period to two years and have said that after one and a half years there must be a new application. I'll see what information is available. More recently, I have decided to carry out interim substantive reviews, the first on 1 July and the next on 1 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u163	Mrs. Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u164	Everything in social traffic is true: the longer you wait to say that something is very sorry and touches you, the less it happens. I therefore ask the question again: what was the obstacle for this Minister to say on the day or the day after yesterday what he said at RTV North and today here in this Chamber? And that is to say what all the other ministers who have had such a solid report from the Research Council are actually saying: I welcome the recommendations. Why couldn't the Minister do that? We've heard implicitly that he will tonight. What else has changed by coming out of this report?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u165	I have great respect for my former colleagues and my current colleagues, but I have my own responsibility and I do my own thing. I'm getting a report, and I'm studying it. I think it is very bad that the suggestion was raised that such a report would have been leaked by Economic Affairs around the MH17 issue, so that it could sink into the news. These are stories that make me a little faint. When a report like this comes out, I'm gonna study it and see how fast I can come up with a solid response. Then what is careful and quick? That's six weeks in this case. After six weeks, I'd like to come up with the whole package. If the Chamber decides to meet earlier, I think it is appropriate for the Chamber to make a ruling on the main point of criticism of the Research Council if I believe that this is justified at this stage. I did. It is my assessment of the situation and my view of how to act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u166	After the opinion of the State Monitoring of Mines finally came out in 2012 that gas extraction had to be reduced as much and as quickly as possible, the Minister gained more gas from the Groningen field in 2013 than in the 30 years preceding it. The PVV very much blames the Minister for this. I call him on the helm to throw and reason from the safety of the Groningers. I call on him to take that as a starting point. What is the real minimum if it makes maximum use of the LNG terminal and of the existing conversion capacity?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u167	I just explained that last one. I am going to look at what we can do if we change the system, stop taking the Groningen field as a starting point and see conversion as a complement. If we are to start using the maximum conversion capacity of 20 billion cubic metres, we have to buy 20 billion cubic metres from Russia or from other parts of the world where the gas is liquefied, then it is brought to the Netherlands by tanker, is made gas-shaped here and goes to the households. We will not talk about costs, nor about the dependence that they create; we are talking first and foremost about safety. If we buy that high-caloric gas, which will convert with nitrogen into gas of Groninger quality and only use the gas from the Groningen field in addition, how much do we need? We already know about this: between 23 billion and 35 billion cubic metres a year from the Groningen field. What's safer? Is the last option, where one year you need 23 billion cube and the other year maybe 35 billion cuub, safer than if you remain more or less stable at 30 to 35 billion cuub? We're going to find out and we're going to make a decision on that as of 1 January 2016. That's what I said about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u168	I quote from the report by the OVV: "Research should never be used as an excuse to take measures or postpone decisions." I am pleased that the Minister is now taking over the suggestion of the PVV, which he dismissed as nonsense a few months ago, and is going to see if gas can be imported through the LNG terminal. But what else is the Minister to investigate? Why does it take so long? Why not until 1 January 2016? The terminal is there and the conversion capacity is there, which the minister can simply use? Is the Minister not in the process of investigating and thereby postponing the decision, which in the meantime is not about security, but about the treasury?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u169	Does asking this question by Mrs Klever mean anything about me or about her? I never postpone decisions, and I never investigate to be able to postpone decisions. It doesn't occur to me. Maybe that's why I'm standing here. If I have to make a decision, I am responsible and I want to take that decision on the basis of hard facts. I want to have relevant opinions on this and I want to be convinced that the decision I am going to take is a good decision. I think that the transition from the system that we have always used to a new system with imported gas as a starting point, which is supplemented by gas from the Groningen field depending on the temperature, may be a major risk. I want to face these risks, I want to know what is responsible and I will have the safety of the citizens of Groningen in mind in the decision-making process. I think that could have been figured out by 1 January 2016. We'll see what that gets us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u170	We heard the Minister yesterday and today say that he, also as a person, is sorry. He speaks warm words about what he wants to do and how he wants to restore people's trust. He says he wants to put safety first. But security remains an abstract concept. It's always "as safe as possible," given the conditions you set. Why should the Minister not impose a sine qua non as a maximum of 35 billion cuub and then look at how that amount can be reduced even further, namely between 30 and 35 billion cuub, in order to do it as safely as possible and to use those investigations for that purpose? That wish lives very widely in the Chamber and has even been expressed by one of the coalition partners. Why doesn't the Minister say goodbye to the 39.5 billion cub and see how he can do it as safely as possible, on the basis of all ongoing investigations?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u171	I've already answered that question. For this year we have decided on the extraction of 39.4 billion cubic metres. We then looked at what is the minimum given the security of supply. That's 35 billion cubs. Then we said that we are going to get ahead of that and even get a little underneath it, at 33 billion cube. In accordance with the request of the Chamber, we are going to take a decision on 1 July, particularly from the point of view of security. There is a clear motion on that. Moreover, I am once again considering whether a step further should be taken as from 1 January next in view of the importance of the security of the citizens of Groningen. It seems to me, therefore, that I am very flexible on the basis of the desire to put the security of citizens first in Groningen. I should be, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u172	Tonight, for example, it appears that "be very flexible" is perhaps also a relative concept. In view of the reports, the range should be between 21 billion and 35 billion as a maximum rather than 35 billion as a minimum. To this end, in line with the request made by one of his coalition partners, the Minister could suggest that he explores how to win as safely as possible between 21 billion and 35 billion and say that he is releasing that 39.4 billion today because he is serious about his regret towards the Groningen people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u173	I don't want to be a smartass, but it's between 23 billion and 35 billion if you keep taking that 2 billion cub play. There's a whole system behind the gas extraction. For example, we have contracts, but also obligations to our own citizens and obligations to customers abroad, who are just like our Dutch citizens, but often speak a different language and live in another country. They are also dependent on low-caloric gas. So there is a whole system of use, sales and obligations attached to it. The making of changes to that system should be as predictable as reasonably possible and as well substantiated as reasonably possible. Last year, I wanted to look not only at the 39.4 billion in 2015, but also at an alternative based on security of supply. Then, at the beginning of February, I asked what we should have at least for the security of supply required in that year without knowing how the temperature would develop in spring and winter. That was that 35 billion cube or 33 plus 2. We then set that amount, which is the other option that runs until 1 July. If the alternative is chosen and can be applied retroactively, we have already reduced it to 33 billion m on an annual basis. That's the decision I made. I'll answer for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u174	I can almost follow the Minister's entire story when it comes to the range between 23 and 35 billion. In short, the Minister says that he may experience fluctuations if he sits below 35 billion m. First he wants to figure that out. I'll share that. In my view, the Minister's story is very consistent that he will sit somewhere between 23 and 35 billion m with a maximum of 35 billion m. Nevertheless, a great deal of discussion, including with the Labour Party, is about why we are not saying to Groningen today, after the investigation of the Security Research Council, that 35 billion cubic metres is the maximum. We would take a very large part of the cold out of the air, but not much changes in substance, given the attitude of the Labour Party. Why is the Minister not willing to say: "Groningen, we are giving clarity. At least 35 billion cube is the maximum. For the rest, we need to see what comes out of the investigations"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u175	With respect to Mr Dijkgraaf, we had that discussion here very recently in the Chamber. We approached it from all sides. Mr Dijkgraaf has also expressed his opinion, just as others have and I have done. The Chamber finally gave a ruling on this. The decision to win a maximum of 39.4 billion cub was already there. An alternative is presented for this, which we anticipate. It must be well prepared by 1 July. Then a decision has to be made. According to the Court's ruling, security will be paramount. That seems to me to be the certainty we can give at the moment. It's not an isolated decision. The people in Groningen also see that in 2012 it was 47 billion, the year after 54 billion, the year after 42.5 billion. This year it will be one of two, so 35 billion or 39.4 billion cube. 35 billion has come into focus with everything I have just said. I'm already making a decision that I'm going to make in ten months. The question is whether we will then proceed to a completely different system, whereby, as Mr Dijkgraaf says, we will reach between 23 and 35 billion cubs, provided that this is good for the safety of the citizens of Groningen. We started on 1 January 2013 and we will take that decision on 1 January 2016. What has happened in those three years is really significant, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u176	I share that view and we have had that debate, but there is a new fact since that debate. That's the report from the Security Research Council. That's gonna put extra political pressure on you. Is this cabinet prepared to do as much as it can? I see a story from the Minister not to get below that 35 billion cub, but I don't see the story of holding on to that 39.4 billion cub. I regret that because I am sure that Groningen would see it as an outstretched hand of this cabinet if it were to say on this day that it is no longer based on that 39.4 billion cub and that given the political reality, apart from investigations that are there, it now knows that 35 billion cub is the maximum and that it may be lower, but at least not higher. So, as far as I'm concerned, this is a final appeal to the Minister to reach out to Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u177	Mr Dijkgraaf's view, like that of other groups, is important to me. I am well aware that almost all the groups have expressed their views on this. I know that the alternative to ensuring security of supply has not been shown for nothing. I also know that it is not for nothing that it has been decided to sit at a yearly level of 33 billion cubic metres until 1 July. The Chamber also understands that we are not going to do what we are going to do as of 1 January 2016. That whole thing was in the picture a few weeks ago. That's when a conclusion was drawn, and I'm holding on to it. I also need to ensure consistency in decision-making. I must also make sure that everything that is discussed here politically is implemented responsibly. That's my responsibility. I told you how to deal with that. I cannot add anything to that at the moment, given what we have all discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u178	I did the word "security" the last time. I just didn't get into it right now. What does this understanding mean for the Minister? I can now hear him say: safety is paramount, I do not make a decision until I have received good advice. I am thinking of the report in which so many bad advice has been given. Somewhere in it is advised by the State surveillance of the Mines: put a brake on gas extraction. The Minister did not take that very sensible advice at the time. For me, security remains a very empty concept when I hear the Minister talking about it and looking back on what has or has not been translated into decision-making in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u179	That opinion of the State Monitoring of Mines for the year 2015 referred to 39.4 billion cuub. I therefore deviate from that advice by showing that security of supply. I am even further away from it by sitting on the 33 billion cub level in anticipation of that until 1 July. I also deviate from that by what I decided myself before 1 January 2016. That's not in the advice of state surveillance, but that's what I've decided. I therefore go even further than the advice of the State surveillance of the Mines. The very first advice of the State surveillance of the Mines was given at the end of December 2012, beginning of January 2013. I was just in the Ministry of EZ back then. There was no coherent research program that made data available that I needed to make security decisions. There just wasn't. Then came that advice from state surveillance, which meant that I would have to return gas extraction as quickly and as much as possible. In order to make such a decision, I needed more than just that advice. The research information I needed was missing. For a year, I have therefore put my finger on going through a very broad and in-depth programme, which has gathered all the expertise in the world and has been made analyses on all the relevant parts, accompanied by independent experts, and provided data that I needed to be able to make a decision. Then I went back to state surveillance and asked what to do with this. That said to me that I had to stop the gas extraction at Loppersum, at the heart of the area. I looked at that then and found out the following. If I had stopped mining then, the gas could not have been delivered at the time when I would have needed it again for security of supply reasons. When something's completely stopped, you can't use it anymore. So I looked at how far I could go back to Loppersum and how I could guarantee security of supply. First of all, safety and security of supply are important, because you talk about heating all households in the Netherlands and surroundings. Then I said that I would not go back 100% in Loppersum and surroundings, but would go back 80%. Besides, I was going to set an upper limit. In the past, a certain amount was agreed, which was also dealt with. I said we're not doing that anymore and we're going down and we're setting an upper limit. I therefore received three opinions. I responded to the first opinion by doing the investigations necessary to arrive at responsible decision-making. The second recommendation to go back by 100%, I reduced it to 80%. Then came an advice to go to 39.4 billion; I followed that. And now I'm going to take a few steps ahead of opinions that will be involved in the decision-making process on 1 July and 1 January 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u180	With all due respect to the minister, it's just a very inconsistent story. There is not enough knowledge about tremors caused by humans. That's obvious. That's what the report shows. In the previous written reply, the Minister states that TNO, KNMI and NAM all use different models to determine the relationship between gas extraction and tremors. The SodM has advised not to take over the 2014-2016 extraction plan. In short, it has been so variedly advised that I wonder what this minister's decision is based on. He can now say that he has ignored the advice of 39.4 billion. After Huizinge he has a very urgent advice to reduce quickly, and that worked the other way from what he just said, just as firmly placed aside. So I can't cook soup. As a result, the concept of security becomes a very empty and easy-to-use concept that the Groningers have no use for at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u181	I wonder: why does Mr Smaling say that? In early 2013, an advice will be published to reduce gas extraction as quickly and as much as possible. In retrospect, however, the Research Council for Security also sees that there was no coherent package of information at all. There were no research data available that allowed you to assess the safety risks. I said at the time that it was an important advice, but that it was not enough and that I also needed the research data. I made sure the investigation was all done. That's as consistent as it can be. As soon as I had the research data, I asked SodM again for advice. I have just indicated how I dealt with this advice. The comment was made that I made a decision on the period 2014-2016 while the SodM had advised to reject the extraction plan of the NAM. If I had indeed rejected that plan, the old extraction plan would have remained in operation until 2017 and could have been won more. I did not want to win more; I wanted to win a maximum of 39.4 billion cuub in 2015, as I was advised by the SodM. So that story is completely consistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u182	I honestly don't understand. We are talking about restoring confidence and I have heard the Minister say that he is very sorry when he looks at the past. However, I also hear him say that it will be 35 billion or 39.5 billion for this year. Again, I really don't understand. Why doesn't the cabinet just choose to sit at the security of supply level for this year and use the coming time to make sound choices for 2016 and beyond, in which the drivers in the North are also strongly involved? I really don't understand why this is still hanging over the market for the next few months, when we have to do everything we can to regain confidence with the tough report of the Research Council for Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u183	It does not apply to me to be rude to Mr Slob, but he will see that he repeats the question that had just been asked to me and on which I have tried to answer twice. I have no choice but to say that that 39.4 billion was the advice of state supervision. The decision was made. It was then said by me and the Chamber that the security of supply was to be taken into account. I asked for advice on exactly what that security of supply meant. I then presented this as an alternative and decided, in anticipation, to sit until 1 July at the level of 33 billion. In addition, I have decided to do the necessary preparatory work in the period up to 1 January in order to possibly go a step further on that date. The Court has stated that security must be the decisive factor for the decision before 1 July. We have therefore made it perfectly clear. Why should we make that less clear than it is? That doesn't help the Groningen either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u184	That's why I'm surprised. This may also have to do with the fact that a few weeks ago it was decided to create a new moment in the middle of July 1st, which means that it is now on March 3rd, even though it was known a few weeks ago that it is still unclear what will happen in the second part of the year. It would have been best if we had agreed to be at the level of security of supply. Last year the Minister wrote to the Chamber that 30 billion cuub is sufficient with possibly a small layer on it. If the Minister has forgotten, I can give him the Chamber of Commons. With this you take the cold out of the sky at once and you make it clear to the Groningers that you really take it seriously and put safety first. The coming time will then be used to work everything out, so that it is also widely worn for 2016 and beyond. That is clear and we should be able to find each other on that. That should have happened a few weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u185	What I do is also very clear and very serious. At that time, I indicated the average between 23 billion and 35 billion. I've asked what you need if depending on the temperature on top of the 20 billion you have to win even more out of the Groningen field in order to meet the need. It has been said that 23 to 35 billion is needed with an average of 30 billion. That's the information I gave the Chamber. I consistently make the relevant information transparent and provide it to the Chamber. I will not repeat that the decision-making on 35 billion, 33 billion, 1 July and what will happen on 1 January is so serious that it would not have been foolish for the Chamber to see it as serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u186	The Minister is in fact consistently giving the same answer, and I can only agree with him on that. In my view, however, this also applies to some of my fellow Members, who are still asking why it is so difficult to take the step towards the level of security of supply. When I read the report, I came to a passage on which I would like to exchange views with the Minister: "He does not have the possibility through the Maatschap to take unilateral decisions, but he can do so under the Mining Act. If, for security reasons, he wants to decide something that affects the interests of private parties, this can only be done if the risk of induced tremors is sufficiently clear and if these decisions can pass a judge's test. In the event of a unilateral, unsubstantiated decision, NAM and therefore Shell and ExxonMobil have a strong position under their right (the concession) to supply gas." Is the legal position of the two parties forming the NAM a reason for the Minister to say: I need the investigations first because I have to be able to enforce in court that it is unsafe, because only then do I have the right to amend the concession?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u187	That is a very clear question from Mrs van Veldhoven, to which I give an equally clear answer: no, that is not the case. If I think something should be done with regard to gas extraction, I think this should be carried out. I think I can convince the NAM, Shell and Exxon. I don't have a single signal that this couldn't be the case. I'm not at all afraid of legal proceedings by Shell, Exxon and the NAM. I am trying to make decisions in a responsible way and to do so in a sound and well prepared manner. I'll make sure I have the information and the advice. In this way, I can make a proper assessment and decide what I support and what I can defend. Then I'll see it again with Shell, Exxon and the NAM. I stand for my decision, so the answer is "no."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u188	I am very glad that we can get rid of this in a very clear way, because the passage in the report was not clear on this point. On the same issue, I have one final question. The Minister says this has no influence. Does this also mean that he believes that he has the freedom to reverse gas extraction preventively if he thinks that this will prevent unsafe situations? Can he just as well say: no, then I leave nothing to do with legal consequences; if I think this should be done, can I do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u189	I don't care about consequences. I have said that I am taking decisions in a more careful way and that I believe that I can be covered by others who are also responsible for this. I'm not worried about that. I'm just making my own decision. I'll make sure this is a sound decision. The rest will come. Then there's the question of what I can do preventively. I have to make the decisions. I have made a decision for two years: 2014 to 2016. I said I want a new mining plan by mid-2016. I said I'd build in the moments of July 1st and January 1st. I said that on 1 May I would like new risk cards, and I refer to the story I just told you on the basis of which I can come to that conclusion on 1 July. That is the way I prepare and implement my decision-making. Those decisions can be defended. My decisions are consistent and well-founded. One example of this is the decision that I took in the first place for the year 2015, that of 39.4 billion. That was literally the advice of the SodM. But when I then come to the conclusion in discussion with the Chamber that we are going to present an alternative with everything that comes with it, as I have just explained, I also take that decision and I think it is a decision that can be defended. It may be that I think it can be done in another way, which we need to prepare properly and with which there are risks, hooks and eyes. I can do that before the end of the year. On January 1st, I can see if I'm going to switch to another system, where we might end up even lower with the gas extraction. If that's the case, so am I. These are all well-prepared, well-thought-out decisions, which can be defended, here too in the House of Representatives, but we will wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u190	So we hear the Minister saying that he sometimes follows the SodM opinion and that he sometimes deviates from it, for his own reasons. The question then is whether, after such a rigorous report from the Research Council, the Minister might have an additional reason to depart from his previous decision. Or is it almost a loss of face for this minister if he first explains exactly how he wants to do it this year and then steps off. The Minister has just explained that he sometimes follows the SodM opinion and sometimes deviates from it. Why is the report of the Research Council not a reason for the Minister to take a slightly lower preventive position? Why doesn't this minister do that? Is that fear of loss of face...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u191	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u192	Or is there another substantive reason why the Minister doesn't want to?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u193	I don't give a shit about loss of face. The only thing that interests me is that my position is Minister of Economic Affairs and that it is not good if a Minister of Economic Affairs loses his face. It doesn't matter to me at all. That's totally irrelevant when I see what's going on in Groningen and what people are going through there. Then I don't care if Henk Kamp loses his face or not. I think the advice of the SodM is very important, but it is an advice that I have to put in addition to all the research data and in addition to the advice of my own staff. Then I have to think about it, weigh it up and make a decision. Of the 39.4 billion, which the SodM has advised for 2015, I am going to deviate on two points for all the reasons I have already mentioned. I'm not gonna be on that level all year 2015. I will start with 33 billion and will explicitly present the alternative, security of supply, before 1 July 2015. In doing so, I deviate from the advice of the SodM. I'm doing that very consciously. No one has advised me to use a new system on 1 January 2016. I've made my own decision. That's my responsibility. That responsibility has been entrusted to me and I have to live up to it. I'll make it happen this way. I've previously been advised by the SodM to reduce 100% at Loppersum. I have established that it was justified to go down to 80%. Those are my decisions, and I will answer for them. It is up to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u194	So it is not the advice of the SodM, which is so compelling that the Minister only wants to follow them literally and not the security of supply, which the Minister says he must necessarily remain at 39.4 billion for the rest of this year. Furthermore, the Minister says that he is sorry and that security goes for everything. So what is the firm reason for holding on to the 39.4 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u195	Now I give up, Madam President. I want to be as polite to Mrs Van Tongeren as to Mr Slob, but I have now answered the question three times. I find it rude to the Chamber as a whole to say the same for the fourth time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u196	Mr President, I do not know if it is appropriate, but I have a point of order. We have allowed the debate. The debate would be about the report of the Security Research Council. I find it rude that we are now having the same debate with the Minister as we did on 12 February 2015. That was not the intention of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u197	That is a point of order. It's on the record. Mrs Van Tongeren, you have asked your question again. Many questions have been asked by different people, even in the first term. I've been listening. I have heard the Minister answer this question three times. Could you clarify a little more precisely that it is a different question than that which the Minister thinks he has already answered three times in detail? I give you the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What the Minister is always answering, we have been hearing for a long time. What has changed for this minister with this rigorous report from the Research Council? Apologies are good and working on the gas building is very good, but why does this report seem to have no influence on what the Minister is going to do with the gas crane?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u199	I didn't study this report before when it was a report, but it was already leaked in a draft version. During the previous debate on 12 February 2015, I understood that the Members of the European Parliament had made use of this. They quoted it and referred to it. I do not know whether that has affected the formation of the Chamber and its decision-making, but I note that a motion has been adopted by the Chamber, which stipulates that the decision must be based on security considerations on 1 July 2015. I think that has already anticipated this report from the Research Council. We therefore depart from the advice of state supervision. We are putting 35 billion m3 in the picture and we are ahead of it until 1 July with 33 billion m3. On top of that, I'm going to do it again before 1 January. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u200	In fact, we heard the Minister repeat a number of times. The Minister also knows that the CDA is different from him, so I won't ask again. However, we do have a question about the year 2013. There's a report from the Research Council now. There was a relatively high extraction in that year. Does the Minister, with the report of the Research Council in his hand, now look back on that? Does he regret that he has allowed a higher winning than he intended?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u201	I have no difficulty in saying that I am sorry if there is a reason. In this case, I have even said that I am very sorry about all that has happened. I have also explained what I am talking about and from what emotion I made that statement. Over the year 2013, I have also been crystal clear to the Chamber. I was just in that ministry back then. I got that advice, and I didn't think there was enough research data available. I felt that a broad and in-depth research programme should be carried out for a year before I could make a responsible decision. So I didn't intervene in the gas extraction for the year 2013. I just didn't do any surgery. For 2013 it was established that 49 billion m could be won. Actually, it was 48.9 billion m, but the Chamber forgives me. Then there were a few things on the agenda. That 49 billion m was exclusive of the NAM's own consumption. That's how it works. The NAM also needs gas to ensure that gas can come out of the ground. That is 0.6 billion m, which is above that 49 billion m. Then we'd have the situation where more had to be injected into the storage facility in Norg. In that year, an additional 0.4 billion m was injected. Furthermore, it can be traced very precisely that, due to the lower temperatures, an additional 2.5 billion m was needed. We had a lower temperature than normal for six months in a row. That had not happened since 1985. In addition, the extraction of gas from the small fields, which was once very high, meant that very little Groninger gas could be extracted, but which had already declined very strongly, was another 0.7 billion m. A quantity of gas has also been used to treat high calorific gas. This has led to the extraction of 54 billion m of natural gas in 2013. That is the result of my decision not to intervene that year. I have shared this with the Chamber and the Chamber itself has not reached any other conclusion either. I made the decision not to intervene in 2013 and to use it for research that year. The original starting point of 49 billion m plus those elements I have just mentioned has thus led to that 54 billion m. That's how it happened. I can't make it more beautiful or less beautiful than reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u202	That is a clear list of the reasons why it happened, but that was not really my question. My question was whether the Minister regretted that this extraction was so high in total. If he looks at that again, with the report in his hand, does he regret that it was so high at the time, even though we can now explain why it was so high? That is the question we are asking the Minister. I would like to make a brief comment. The minister says a majority was in favour of his line. I believe that a number of parties have tabled motions in early 2013 which already expressed the desire to further reduce the extraction of gas. Those parties were very critical. So there may well have been a majority, but there have been some very critical comments about it at the time. Let me be very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u203	I do not know better than that a point was raised at the time, where only the groups of the Party for Animals and the Green Left voted in favour and the other groups did not. However, I am not hiding behind the political groups, because the Chamber does not take those decisions. I make those decisions. I decided not to intervene in that year, but to do investigations first. Given the data available at the time and, more importantly, the data I lacked in order to reach a responsible decision, I have deliberately chosen not to interfere in the extraction of gas. I think the trade-off I made in January 2013 was the right one at the time. I do not want to do that again in the perspective of 2015 or when. That was the situation at the time. At the time, I made that decision. I've been transparent about that. I set up the whole research programme and I had an exchange of views with the Chamber. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u204	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u205	I just indicated that the safety of the Groningers is now paramount and that from my position I will do everything I can to achieve the improvements that the Groningers are right to ask for. I have to move on. I have to perform concretely and tangiblely to do what is necessary and what the Groningen are entitled to and also to do what is necessary for safety. I can't do that alone. I need a constructive and positive attitude from all parties, including the co-governments in Groningen, the province and the municipalities. It is therefore crucial that it has been possible twice to reach an agreement with the province and the municipalities on a package of measures that had to be taken. I'm glad. I am also pleased that we were then able to agree on the way in which everything related to the handling of damages and the like was carried out. This is not done by the NAM, but by the Centre Secure Living, so at some distance from the NAM and under independent supervision. We were able to reach agreement on this at the time, and we have now agreed that a national coordinator should be appointed to lead an inter-administrative inter-departmental service. Part of that service is in The Hague and other ministries are involved. Part of the service is in Groningen, where the province and the municipalities are involved. I need this cooperation with the province and the municipalities in order to achieve the results needed for the Groningers. The Research Council examined the period up to 2013. However, the same report also states that the necessary changes have taken place since 2013. More attention is paid to the uncertainties surrounding the earthquakes caused by gas extraction, writes the Research Council. The measures taken with the intention of properly identifying and controlling the risk of earthquake are also different from the previous years. So I've been catching up since 2013. More information and knowledge must be collected and the delays made up. Organisations should be set up, such as the Centre for Safe Living and the service to be covered by the National Coordinator. We must also fight against scepticism and mistrust in the area. As far as I can see, I have already said that I fully understand that. The important thing is to perform. I am happy to do this together with my colleagues in the cabinet, with the province of Groningen and with the support of the Chamber. The Chamber will be able to see what happened until 2013 and also that a wealth of research data has been collected since then. In the world there was hardly any knowledge of earthquakes caused by gas extraction. We set this all up ourselves. A huge amount of research material has become available and now we are fully engaged in improving and deepening all of this. In the meantime, we have managed to deal with many thousands of claims, but I will go into the damage cases that Mr Vos mentioned. In addition, the Safe Living Centre has been established. I have already said that it has been decided to set up a national coordinator. We have also decided to strengthen large-scale housing. That was not the case before, but now there is a major programme for this. We've developed a building standard. There wasn't, and there is now. There will also be a final standard later on. We have made a budget for the additional costs of new construction. We have set a budget for the economic strengthening of Groningen and for the specific strengthening of the chemical cluster. I've made a budget available for living capacity and for increasing the value of homes. For the economy, the quality of life and the increase in the value of the houses, you talk about 320 million euros in total. EUR 260 million comes from the Empire and the NAM. We have created a separate fund for additional costs for the city of Groningen, in anticipation of further conclusions that we still have to draw. We've limited the extraction of gas. I have just indicated how this went, from 47 billion to 54 billion to the number we are discussing. The most important thing, in my view, is that we have now set out safety. It is not wrong to see what has happened since 2013, after the period the Security Research Council has examined.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u206	We just got a whole list from the minister of what happened. What does the Minister think of the ruling of Max van den Berg, the King's Commissioner in Groningen? He's not the first to know the facts, and he knows the facts as well as the Minister. Max van den Berg said that very little is actually happening for us. The Groningers experience that there is a lot of paper being pushed and that there is a lot of talk. That is also the reproach of many debates in The Hague. They feel that very little is actually happening for them. Not one house in Groningen has been strengthened yet. How does the Minister view this? Is he looking at this very hard report from the OVV? Or does the Minister still believe that we are on the right track for the Groningen people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u207	I will not comment on the King's commissioner in Groningen. If the King's Commissioner in Groningen comments on me, I will listen to that, but I will not return the same. I understand that Mrs Van Tongeren agrees that nothing has happened. You can't say with dry eyes that nothing happened and that only paper was slipped? I really don't understand why Mrs Van Tongeren is saying this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u208	I tried to ask the Minister a question, but I can't get an answer. It was a literal quote by Max van den Berg. I watched the TV and wrote it literally: "In fact, very little is happening for us." Like my colleagues in the Chamber, I have spoken to a lot of Groningers. They also say that the gas tap does not close or hardly close any further and that in practice very little is actually happening for them. The Minister's reading a whole list. These are all measures on paper. I haven't spoken to any Groningers who say: toppie, I feel safer; that minister is playing a good game; what a pleasure that crane closes as far as possible as anything can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u209	Do I understand that Mrs Van Tongeren is also responsible for what she puts in the mouth of others, namely that nothing has happened? I've just said something about increasing the value of the houses. An arrangement has been established for those who have suffered €1,000 or more damage. For them, €4,000 will be available for the increase in the value of the house. So if you have €1,000 or more damage, there will be €4,000 available. That amount has been paid out thousands of times. Isn't that something? The city of Groningen is busy figuring out all kinds of things for risk cards, but that doesn't come until 1 July. Between now and 1 July, the major construction projects must be able to continue. There's financial uncertainty about that. That's why I've made sure there's a 50 million-dollar fund for the city of Groningen. Isn't that something? In 2012, 47 billion were won. In the following year 54 billion were won. We then went from EUR 42.5 billion to EUR 39.4 billion to EUR 35 billion to EUR 33 billion. Then I'll talk about January 1, 2016. We just went through all that, with all the nuances. Is it okay to say that nothing happened? It was said that it was not good to have the damages handled by the NAM. It was thought that this should be done by an agency independent of the NAM. That agency is now at work in Appingedam and takes care of the damage handling. It shall be subject to independent supervision. Isn't that all right? I don't understand why in this house, where we're dealing with a serious problem in Groningen and where we're really doing our best to do what's necessary, it's suggested that it's all nothing. The king's commissioner is the same as mine. In our environment, in our circumstances and in our time frame, we do what we think is best. The King's Commissioner, who was the Queen's Commissioner at the time, was chairman of the board of commissioners of the gas building from 1963 to mid-2007. The whole gas building that has been created, and which has worked for decades, was therefore under the supervision of the Supervisory Board. The Commissioner of the Queen in Groningen was the President of this House. At that time, the Queen's Commissioner did what he thought was best and what needed to be done. That's how we all do it. I don't think it's right that we approach each other negatively. I think that, in the interest of the Groningen people, we are obliged to approach each other positively, to work together and ultimately to perform for the benefit of the Groningen people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u210	Now that the Research Council has published a destructive report and the Minister has apologized, the Minister lists a whole list of the measures taken. Does the Minister think that's enough compensation for the people in Groningen? Does he think that's enough, even though we now have clear and clear evidence that just failed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u211	Do I think it's enough of what's happening now? I do not think it is enough until we have put it all into practice and if it has the effects that we are aiming at with it. If we can't achieve those effects, it's not enough and more needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u212	Is the Minister prepared to set up an additional compensation fund to compensate for the damage and suffering suffered?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u213	No, what I am prepared to do has been incorporated into the packages with appointments that I have made twice with the province and the municipalities. It says what we think should be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u214	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u215	I call Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u216	I'm gonna go through with the damage. There are also a number of passages in the report which require further clarification. I think it is important for Groningen to be clear that all damages will be compensated. If people suffer damage due to gas extraction, not just soil decline, they will be compensated. I read in the report that an agreement between the NAM and the province of Groningen was concluded in 1983. It says that the NAM compensates for all damage caused by soil degradation up to a maximum of about EUR 300 million. The agreement is open-ended but ends when the forecast of soil decline is less favourable or costs exceed 300 million. That $300 million linked to bottom descent, is that really released? Are all damages reimbursed? And what is the cost distribution between the NAM and the cabinet? Because in his tweet today, the minister said that the cabinet and the NAM are paying for all the damages. On page 42 of the report there is another passage in which it is actually said that the cabinet itself has a responsibility from the point of view of membership. So what about costs above 300 million? Are they also for the NAM, or what share does the State itself have in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u217	There's no tweet of mine, because I never tweet. So that's a misunderstanding. As far as the damage is concerned, with all due respect, I have nothing to do with $300 million. I have something to do with the damage being compensated by the NAM if it's caused by earthquakes. It's just the NAM that pays for that. It is, of course, the case that the NAM has revenue, as well as expenditure, namely compensation for damages and what is more. Eventually there will be less profit left to distribute. Because most of the profits go to the Empire, the Empire takes a large part of the costs through that detour. But the NAM will pay for it. Behind the NAM are the financial interests of Shell, of ExxonMobil and of the Dutch government. The Dutch government takes out as much money as possible. That's what we've agreed on. But if you make costs, that means that they are charged to the total profit, and thus also to the State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u218	With all due respect, if the Minister says he is not tweeting, that is not a very serious answer to the content of the question. I'll clarify some things. It was a quote. The Minister has made a statement on RTV North. That ruling was recorded by a journalist of NRC Handelsblad and he tweeted about it. Then it is now clear to everyone where that came from.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u219	But you were talking about a tweet of mine. But I don't tweet, so I can't send tweets.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u220	The verdict was recorded in a tweet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u221	The Minister considered that a factual error should be corrected. Please continue, Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u222	My question about the 1983 agreement, which limits the liability of the NAM to 300 million and only links it to soil decline, remains. Is that agreement off the table? Has she been adapted? What's the status of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u223	According to the law, the person causing damage by mining must also compensate for that damage. That's what I'm dealing with. I'm not dealing with a maximum of 300 million. The damage caused by the extraction of natural gas by NAM in Groningen must be compensated. This brings me to the end of my introduction. I have already dealt with a number of important questions. Perhaps it is a good thing that I now turn to the recommendations. I have indicated that a thorough report also needs a thorough response from the cabinet. The recommendations of the Research Council are clear as far as I am concerned. I should like to comment briefly on all the recommendations. However, I would like to go into this more thoroughly in my cabinet response, because that is what this is about. There is a report, there are conclusions and recommendations are made. Then what are we doing with that in the cabinet? So we're gonna work things out now. However, I think that the recommendations should be followed up. It is about what form that will be in and how that will happen. There are all kinds of things that need to be worked out. I'm working hard on that now. I will do very much to be able to come to the Chamber before the end of this month with the cabinet's reaction, after the cabinet has been able to speak about it. The Research Council recommends that the importance of security in decision-making should be strengthened. That needs to be worn more broadly. Departments must be involved, the citizen's perspective must be taken into account and the independence of State supervision of the Mines must be strengthened. I think this is how it should be done. This means that several departments must be involved. We're doing that right now. Decision-making on a extraction plan is no longer carried out by the Minister for Economic Affairs, but by a decision taken by the Council of Ministers. Mining is included in the Structure Vision Substrate which the Minister of I and M and I make together. The Minister of I and M is therefore involved. I have already spoken about the national coordinator who is going to run an inter-departmental/inter-administrative service. This service also involves I and M, VWS and BZK. The involvement of different departments will therefore take place. One possibility to take the citizen's perspective in a structural and recognizable way is to involve the parliaments in the region that its Provincial States, the provincial government, the municipal councils and the municipal authorities. That has to be done. I am also preparing an amendment to the Mining Act. I would like to take an advisory role for the province. In this way, the province can be involved. How can we involve the municipalities and the province further? The municipalities must, of course, already issue permits when the extraction takes place. How can their role be strengthened? How can we better involve the citizens who are behind this? We are now working with the Dialogue table and with the local authorities. However, I need to develop further the implementation of this cooperation. I'm very willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u224	I have a question about the first recommendation on which the Minister went and the involvement of other ministries. It is very obvious: you are only in what we then call trade-K because you are responsible for gas extraction; the Prime Minister did not want to come, but you are responsible for gas extraction. From the advice of the Research Council for Security you can see that the said responsibility would be shared more rather than with one person, with one minister. As far as you are concerned, is this room also available when it comes to drawing up these recommendations?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u225	I look at these recommendations with an open eye. At no point is there anything I would not want; I want to look at everything and then talk about it in the Council of Ministers and then come to conclusions. I think it is clear to Parliament that if something is wrong or goes well with regard to the extraction of natural gas, it can appeal to me. I am also responsible for this, which seems to me to be so insightful to you, but there are other aspects to it. You can also have other considerations. The Research Council has also formulated it, and I am prepared to see how we can implement it. I think we should. I also think I should follow that recommendation. So I am particularly working on the way I'm going to follow it up. As far as the involvement of several ministers is concerned, I have already indicated the significant way in which I intend to shape this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u226	Of course, we are waiting for the results, which you will also need a few weeks for, but I would like to point out that the option that several ministers could be responsible for gas extraction is still open. I think I heard you say very clearly on 18 February that you felt that only one minister should be responsible. That is why I would also like to make it clear that this is still open and that it may also be possible to become more ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u227	I am clarifying Mr Slob. There is no blockade for any option to implement the recommendations of the Security Research Council. Anything that comes in the picture, I'll take it with me. We will then consider and take a decision as a cabinet, but I am not ruling anything out in advance, neither is the possibility as Mr Slob suggests.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u228	Let me get this straight. It's not a possibility I suggested. The minister himself indicated in a radio interview for the NOS that he felt that only one person should be responsible. I was sorry to hear that, because then a road will be closed. I am very pleased with the answer given by the Minister. There's still plenty of room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u229	Then the independence of State surveillance of the mines. The Research Council says it needs to be strengthened. We'll see how we can do that. I very much agree that State supervision of the Mines must be absolutely independent. One must also be able to carry out the task. The new Inspector-General has been asked by me to indicate what he should do about the structure of the organisation in order to strengthen it and to ensure continuity. Because I certainly have that intention. I assure the Chamber that in no way, in any form whatsoever, have done anything to put pressure on the independence of State supervision of the Mines. There we come to our own conclusions in complete freedom. They are also fully free to present these conclusions. There's no way I'm in the middle of that. Mr Smaling asked why the previous inspector-general retired early. The suggestion was that there might be something behind that, in the sense that the man came up with an unpleasant advice, after which he was retired early. I hope that Mr Smaling does not think so himself but that he has heard that thought from someone else and that he wants to hold it against me for a while. That is in no way the case. I very much appreciated the former Inspector General. I've left him all the freedom, too. If I hadn't done that, he would have rebelled against it himself, because the man knew very well what he stood for. He had indicated years ago when he wished to end his career. That's exactly what he's been sticking to. There was no influence whatsoever on me or on any of my associates. On the contrary, the man functioned excellently. I'd have been happy to see him at his post for another three years. That was absolutely no problem. We are going to approach ensuring a more independent position of State supervision of the Mines in the same way as I put it in the direction of Mr Slob. The Research Council also notes that it is very important that a full research package be drawn up on the risks posed by mining, in particular gas extraction in Groningen. I have already indicated that I have come a long way with this, but I am working very hard on it. I am convinced that in this way I am working entirely in the spirit of what the Security Research Council considers necessary. I will examine, in consultation with the mining industry, State surveillance of Mines, TNO, KNMI and all other interested parties, including universities with expertise and co-thinking, what has been done so far, and what is still to be done in terms of research and the data that needs to come out of it. If there are serious suggestions, which are widely shared, in order to achieve further improvements, I am very interested in them. I'm willing to take it with me, too. In this way, I will also elaborate on my response to this point. Then the communication to the citizens. This is also an important advice from State surveillance of the Mines. A lot has happened at that point. The SodM states that there is often information rather than communication. At that point there is much to improve, the SodM says. I think that is an interesting point. I will therefore look in depth at what we can do to ensure that this recommendation is followed up. We will see how the municipalities and the province can play a role in this. I intend to take advantage of the opportunities I can find to improve this. State surveillance has also made a recommendation on the structure of the gas building. I have already indicated that this structure was set in motion in 1963. At that time it was decided that the State would not itself do the gas extraction. In 1963 it was decided to grant the NAM a permanent concession. Through the NAM Shell and Exxon, later ExxonMobil, were brought in. The ownership of the gas has also been transferred to the NAM. An organization was then set up with the Groningen, DSM, EBN, the Gasunie and later GasTerra Maatschap Groningen, of which GTS was split up again. The Gasunie itself has also remained in place for a number of tasks. Since 1963, therefore, a very complex system has been set up. It's been working for a long time. Legal commitments have been entered into and they have been fulfilled for many years. So I cannot simply do anything with that, but the Chamber will remember that, at an early stage, when I was not so long on Economic Affairs, I already said that I was not satisfied with the gas building and that I wanted to look at what was going on and what the role of EBN and the other parties was. I also said at the time that we should relate this to the reduced amount of gas and that there should be an exit strategy. I'm working on it. I'm working on it. I am looking at what needs to be done, what can happen, whose cooperation is needed, whether we can obtain it and, if not, how it can be achieved in another way. I am trying to reach conclusions in good consultation with the parties concerned. I intend to indicate in the energy report published in the fourth quarter of this year how I see the future of the gas building and how I want to deal with it. These were briefly my reactions to the recommendations. I intend to follow them up and work it out. I'm already working on that. I will inform the Chamber at the end of this month about the impact in the form of a cabinet response to the report of the Research Council. I shall now turn to the various points raised by the spokesmen who are asking for a response from my side. Mrs Van Tongeren referred to the advice of state supervision and said that I would have ignored it three times. I have gone into this in detail. She and Mr Vos spoke about reversing the burden of proof. Perhaps it would be a good idea to discuss the reversal of the burden of proof. Mr Vos spoke of a number of poignant cases. Knowing Him, he means the complex cases that are currently there, cases that cannot easily be brought to a conclusion, but to which all kinds of aspects are linked and where buttons need to be cut. He said threateningly that he is in favour of reversing the burden of proof if those 250 cases are still in place by the end of this year. I would like to leave it to Mr Vos when he takes what views, but I can tell him that I agree with him on those 250 complex cases. They must be brought to a conclusion by the end of the year. 75 cases have already been resolved, while 75 cases are included in the approach to preventively strengthen and thus have been resolved. Then you're left with about 100 cases that are currently under treatment. They must be completed by the end of this year. Apart from that, there is the point of reversing the burden of proof. I think that reversal of the burden of proof is particularly important when there is a discussion about the causal link between damage and cause. That is not the case in Groningen. The damage there was caused by the gas extraction. I think it has no added value for the people in Groningen to reverse that burden of proof. However, I do not wish to draw any conclusions. I promised the Chamber on 12 February that I would see how it is handled abroad. I have said that within two months I will come forward with a letter containing my findings and my opinion on them. It may then be dealt with in the amendment of the Mining Act, I referred to it as mining law, but I meant Mining Act, which I am preparing and which is going to deal with the Chamber. That's what that letter of mine could be involved in. Then we can see whether the reasoning I put forward and my conclusion can also be shared by a majority of the Chamber and by the PvdA group, which is generally important for that majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u230	I would like to thank the Minister for understanding the urgency and for his commitment to see these complex cases resolved before the end of the year, as did my group. Let me put it very clearly. Whether there are harrowing cases, complex cases or simple cases, at the end of the year I do not want to hear the Commissioner of the King of Groningen say on television again or hear me tell here in the Chamber that there are still people who are not being helped. I don't want to still get emails in my mailbox from people who have a conflict with the NAM. I don't want to have to make phone calls to people anymore, and I don't want to have to visit people anymore. It just has to be solved. If that is not the case, my group will argue in favour of reversing the burden of proof in the Mining Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u231	The question is, what do you then solve with that? No more calls and no more e-mails, I can't guarantee that. In these complex cases, reasonableness does not always come from two sides either. In such a case, I believe that there should be arbitration and that these matters should not continue to drag. They will have to be notified for arbitration soon and if the outcome of that arbitration is there, it will have to be carried out. In this way it must be done, with reasonableness of NAM/Centre Safe Living and with arbitration at times when it is necessary. This should lead to all the 250 complex cases that I have just spoken about being resolved by the end of the year. We shall then see whether that is also to Mr Vos' satisfaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u232	It is not primarily about the satisfaction of the PvdA group, but about the satisfaction of the people in Groningen. I understand that there may be a questioning here and there. Of course, it's about all those people there having suffered enormous damage, physical and psychological, and that they're in trouble. Those people just need help. If anyone here says that this must happen generously over and over again, it must not remain an empty word. That must be done. So I would ask the Minister once again, in his talks with the NAM and other parties involved, to make it clear, above all, that this must be resolved by the end of the year and that that waiting list must have disappeared.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u233	In the view that the real damage should be compensated generously and that the 250 complex cases should be resolved by the end of the year. I think that is very important for the atmosphere and Groningen and also for the progress of the whole process. Mr Vos rightly emphasizes this and I see it as an incentive to do what I have just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u234	Is the Minister now prepared to offer a buy-out scheme to people trapped in their damaged home, who suffer financial damage and emotional damage? Is he willing to offer these people a way out with a buyout arrangement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u235	There is already a separate regulation for distressing cases, which also allows for a buy-out. It has already been applied in four cases. Furthermore, I have agreed with the province of Groningen that we will see to what extent it is necessary and possible, and if so in what form, to contribute to the improvement of the housing market through a certain form of buy-out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u236	I got an e-mail this week, so incredibly poignant! A gentleman had applied to the committee for distressing cases. He was in a damaged house. Liter's water comes in when it rains. That gentleman has a job in the west of the country and has to travel three hours and three hours back. Of course, he's not gonna lose his house because it's damaged. Is the Minister prepared to offer these gentleman and similar cases a buy-out arrangement? He was sent away by the committee. Does the Minister say that the gentleman is being bought out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u237	No. I have set up a committee for poignant cases. That committee is independently competent to do what is necessary. The necessary money is also available for this purpose. In addition, I made an appointment with the province and the municipalities as I just said. Those are the things I'm willing to do. Mrs Van Tongeren spoke about the gas building, focusing on the question of shareholdership. Then it was decided to split the Gasunie into the transport company, the current Gasunie, and the trading company GasTerra, also looked at how the shareholdership should be invested. It was agreed at that time that the shareholders of the Gasunie would be invested with the Minister of Finance. However, because of European and Dutch legal rules, it was not possible to invest GasTerra's shareholdership with the Minister of Finance, because there were potentially competing interests. That is why it was then chosen to invest in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I have made a change in the exact way that is invested. In preparation for decision-making on the gas building, I asked ABDTOPConsult to examine the whole. This has led to a large number of recommendations. Following one of these recommendations, I invested GasTerra's shareholding separately with the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The combination with the ownership of the Gasunie with the Minister of Finance provides a good balance sheet, but as part of the overall recommendations of the Research Council, this is now revisited. We will see whether this leads to other conclusions if we come to the Chamber at the end of this month. Mr Slob has asked for a special chamber at the Assen Court. He says that a specialism can be created and that, without there being any capacity problems, the issues that are going on in Groningen with regard to the extraction of natural gas and the earthquakes there can be dealt with in a good way. A special chamber is a typical organisational measure taken by a court, if there are capacity problems or if there is a need for legal unit when cases can run in multiple courts. Then you draw it to one court. There is no question of either at the moment. There are no capacity problems and there are some cases on behalf of several plaintiffs. They are treated according to the normal division of labour of the court. There is no capacity problem there. Moreover, there are no multiple courts involved. The cases end up at the courthouse in Assen. So that problem is not present at the moment. That is why I do not think it is necessary to promote a decision as suggested by Mr Slob. Mr Slob said that he felt that the energy transition needed to be taken seriously. We are working very seriously on this energy transition. He has understood what is going on with regard to wind on land and wind at sea. He understood the amounts involved in the SDE+ scheme, the renewable energy subsidy scheme. He understood that we are in the process of replacing, to a large extent, the existing fossil energy infrastructure, which has already been abandoned, with a new renewable energy infrastructure. We have ambitious objectives. The share currently stands at 4% to 5%. We want to be 14% by 2020 and 16% by 2023. By 2020, power plants should also have a sustainability target of between 35% and 40%. Electricity should therefore be produced in a sustainable way for between 35% and 40%. So we have very high ambitions. The coalition agreement is also based on that. The energy agreement is also an effect of this. I think I am as serious as Mr Slob when it comes to achieving the energy transition. Mr Slob says: not words, but deeds. He says: words include deeds. I hope he has seen that my actions on that point are in my view as Mr Slob wishes them to be. Mrs Ouwehand quickly raised her big point. I responded to that. I have also spoken about the words I have chosen for my remorse. It also discussed the issue of human rights. Mrs Ouwehand says that human rights in Groningen could be violated. I think we are doing everything we can to defend these human rights. I am well aware of what the Groningen people are entitled to and what I have to do to implement it. I'm working on that with full force, and I'm in the Cabinet. I also feel supported by the Chamber. I therefore do not believe that there is any violation of human rights by us. We'll see if everyone feels that way. If it's considered differently, we'll see what the judge says about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u238	I advise the Minister not to let it come to this and make a final attempt tonight. I'm gonna ask him one more question. The information now known to the Cabinet is the same information the Chamber has. This shows that higher extraction presents a higher risk of heavier earthquakes. We are also sure that there will be more earthquakes at higher extraction. So if you don't screw back that extraction to the maximum, you're putting risks on the citizens' sign in Groningen who are averted. Because there's more we can do. Those risks are also foreseeable, because we know. If this information is known to the Cabinet, but it does not act as it should, is the conclusion of the College of Human Rights quite plausible? Then we'll continue to ignore human rights, won't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u239	No, in my opinion, we are not continuing to ignore human rights. It is also true that we are doing the best we can, as I have just explained. I can't say it any better than I just did. Mrs Ouwehand is now asking the same question that I did not want to answer for Mrs Van Tongeren for the fourth time, in order not to brusque the Chamber. I am not doing that to Mrs Ouwehand. I have answered that question in detail three times. I do not think that we are in any way violating human rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u240	In conclusion, I shall also do so in my second term, the Minister claims that the cabinet is doing the best it can to serve the security of citizens in Groningen. I think that the information available to the Minister contradicts that. In no way can a choice for a production ceiling above 35 billion m be defended. In fact, the scenario of the 21 billion m, if you would also like to provide security of supply, should be examined by the Minister. Furthermore, a maximum extraction of 12 billion m is actually needed. If you are up there, you need a good story to explain that you accept more risks for the safety of Groninger than for other people in the Netherlands. The Minister has been given a very comprehensive opportunity to convince the Chamber why it would be justified to keep the production ceiling at 39 billion m, why it would not be necessary to go to a lower level, for example those 12 billion m or those 21 billion m, or to identify what the consequences would be. The Animal Party feels a heavy responsibility in this regard. There is not much else left for at least the Party for Animals, but to take care of the cabinet knowingly and knowingly continue with a policy that poses unnecessary dangers for citizens in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u241	I totally disagree with Mrs Ouwehand. I have just explained to the Chamber three times in detail why I disagree. I think we are acting in a very responsible way. I do not therefore believe that we are in any way violating human rights. If others don't share that opinion, I'll wait and see what comes of it. However, I do what I have to do with conviction. I'm doing it in a responsible way. I think I have also highlighted this in great detail and from all sides. Mrs Van Veldhoven had a lot of serious questions and comments. I think I've answered them all. I have dealt with the role of the province of Groningen, how to deal with state surveillance and how open I am to the various options. I have dealt with the research programme and the question of shareholdership. In the end, Mrs Van Veldhoven also said that she believes it is a good thing that this main debate is now in place. I am convinced that once the Chamber does something, it is also convinced that it is good. If that leads to an invitation to me, I appear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u242	Mrs Van Veldhoven, your fourth and final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u243	The Minister is also convinced that if he makes a decision, it is carefully prepared. I have another question about the research program. The other questions had indeed been answered, for which thanks. The report, of course, focuses very much on the extraction of gas and the associated mining activities. In my input, I have tried to make that a little broader. Doesn't this example of gas extraction teach us that we have to assume structurally that the effects of what we do in the subsurface may not be negligible? Shouldn't we be moving towards better monitoring and research programmes on our subsurface?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u244	There are two points I would like to address. The first is that together with the university, the KNMI, TNO, SodM and the mining sector I will look at what we have all done in research. What's going on, what are we gonna do, and is that enough? What can be done in a good way in addition? The second point is that together with I and M I make a Structural Vision Underground. Once again, everything is linked and weighed up, and this leads to conclusions. That too is presented to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u245	Can the Minister promise that the Strong document, which comes to the Chamber, will look again at the regulations in the field of spatial planning and the way in which views, participation and so on are regulated above ground? How can we ensure that we give people an adequate opportunity to speak and contribute to the decision-making process surrounding what is happening in the ground under their feet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u246	I'll have that checked out. If it is not entirely certain that we understand Mrs van Veldhoven's intentions, I will have her contacted in order to make it clear. That way, I will do justice to her request. Mr Smaling spoke to me about my regret, about human rights and about who is going to pay it. I have expressed my view on the fact that I do not use investigations to postpone decisions. Mr Smaling has his views on this. I hope that's where I managed to convince him. He wants to blow up the gas building. That's what I've been working on. He wants to replace the gas building with a sustainable energy house. I will focus with all my energies on renewable energy. I believe in that. I believe that we have very ambitious objectives and that we must also achieve them. I dealt with the early retirement of the Inspector General of the SodM. Mr Smaling asked whether I think I can regain confidence. I am convinced that what has happened in the Groningen dossier since the beginning of 2013 is a good basis for achieving results. I think that partly because of the strength and intensity with which all this happened and the tellingness of everything that has happened. I've reported all of that. Only those results will convince the people in Groningen. I think I have made it clear to the Chamber, including Mr Smaling, that I think there is still a lot to be done, I have done a lot already, I am very busy and I still want to do a lot. That is a good basis for achieving results. If those results are there, and not before, the Groningers will be persuaded. Mr Smaling wonders whether I think I am the right man for that. The answer to that is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u247	Mrs Mulder has a question on an earlier point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u248	I hear the Minister is in the process of answering all the individual spokesmen. He was already with the spokesmen after me, so maybe this is the time to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u249	Shall we do that at the end? Then you'll know for sure if your questions have been answered, because maybe he's not following the whole line.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u250	I think he was following the whole line.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u251	I've made a mistake, as I've done before. I was wrong to skip Mrs Mulder. I'm going to correct that immediately. I indicated how I deal with the recommendations. I've been talking about the apology. Mrs Mulder expressed her view on the precautionary approach. I also consider this precaution to be very important. That is why we are working on the scale of gas extraction and the form of gas extraction, as we have done over the last two years and continue to do so in the current year with two new rethinking moments: on 1 July and 1 January. So I think I'm doing justice to the precautionary principle. I spoke on 2013 and in particular on Mrs Mulder's question. She also wondered whether security should be transferred to another ministry. I have indicated that we are looking at all these recommendations with an open mind and that my intention is to follow recommendations, that I think it is necessary to follow them and that I am working on how. She says that German knowledge must be flown in. I have no objection to that. I collect everything there is of expertise. Whatever I can use, I collect. I have nothing against German knowledge, so as far as something specific could be better, I will have contact with Mrs Mulder on this matter separately. I also discussed the 2015 extraction plan and its implications. That was my answer to Mrs Mulder. If you will allow me to do so, Mr President, I would like to go to Mrs Klever.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u252	Mrs Mulder has a question and Mr Smaling will also have a question about your answers to him. Mrs. Mulder, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u253	The Minister has indeed gone through all my points. I still have an enlightening question about 2013. He has given a very clear overview of what that is because of, but does he regret that the extraction was so high?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u254	In January 2013, before taking a far-reaching decision, before intervening in gas extraction, which was covered by previous decision-making, before I wanted to deviate from it and do something else, I felt that more research data should first be available. I've put all my efforts into those research data. I decided not to intervene in 2013. I shared that with the Room, too. I still think I made the right decision at the time. I think I made the right decision on the basis of the data available at the time and the possibilities I had. I have absolutely no idea I'm infallible. On the contrary, I make mistakes every day. If I am convinced that I made a mistake, I feel very free to admit it to Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u255	Therefore, the Minister does not regret the high extraction in 2013, nor does the investigatory report in hand. I'm sorry about that. I had hoped the Minister would answer that differently. Even though I understand how it all went, I am really sorry that this extraction was so awfully high in that year. I thought, perhaps the Minister is looking at it differently now, with this report in hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u256	I very much respect Mrs Mulder's view on this, but at that time I sat for two months in a place where my predecessors had served many decades before. At that time, I was confronted with what was there, with the research data that was there or, rather, with the research data that was not there. I was confronted with a far-reaching opinion. In addition to advice, I think I need research data. I got those research data available as soon as possible. I then asked for a new opinion. In the spirit of the advice I received then, I reduced mining in the core area by 80% and set an upper limit on extraction of 42.5 billion m. So it went from 54 billion immediately in the following year to 42.5 billion. We have already discussed this year in detail and what could happen next year. I believe that I have shown the necessary strength and flexibility in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u257	The Minister went through my questions very quickly. That's good. But there's a case that has to do with liability. This is going through a bit of the discussion about guilt and apology. If the NAM can be considered liable for what has happened, what are the financial consequences? In the facts I read that the NAM came with a brochure after the earthquakes of 2003. After the earthquakes in 2006, the Empire and NAM acted soothingly, despite concerns at the SodM. In 2009, when there were a lot of tremors, the SodM asked questions to the NAM, after which only two and a half years later a gasfield review was published, in which no answer was given to the SodM's questions. TNO and KNMI depend on information about the substrate that only the NAM can give. That didn't happen or incompletely. On page 69, it says: until 2013, all parties except the SodM claim that there are no risks to safety. According to all parties, except the regulator, there is no risk to safety. That comes very close to liability, doesn't it? How can we call the NAM to account for this? When you see that such a collapsing sand sculpture in Zuidlaren is not compensated, do you think: is there an elephant walking past or what?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u258	I said I was very sorry about what happened in Groningen. I also said that all the parties involved in the extraction of gas could have taken greater account of the safety of the people. I have said that I am very sorry about the fact that this has not happened and about its effects. So this concerns all those involved in gas extraction. I do not think it is necessary to point the finger at the NAM or any other institution separately. I think that I should first of all be aware of the responsibility of the Minister of EZ and of the Dutch Cabinet, under the Mining Act and the possibilities we have for conducting research and influencing the NAM. We have our own responsibility, but others too have their responsibility. I made a statement on the whole. I refer to everything that we are doing now or what is still being done: to compensate the real damage generously and 100%, to set up a huge programme to strengthen houses and to make large sums available for the economy, the viability, the increase in value, the new building and everything related to it. To start philosophizing on top of that about liability and things that wouldn't fall under this, is not up to me. I have to make sure everything is covered up. If people believe they are not, they have the opportunity to go to the independent judge in our country. Then we'll see what comes out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u259	But that means that the Minister thinks it is normal that the NAM should pocket around one billion a year, while the report shows that a whole decade, starting with 2003, has actually only been countered. I am thinking of Mr Joustra, who said on TV that there was an almost unhindered disgust in the minutes of the gas building when it came to safety and the relationship between extraction and tremors. Well, that's the conclusion, isn't it? Why can't the Minister endorse that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u260	From my own experience, I am working very intensively on this dossier from October 2012 onwards, saying that the SodM has not been affected in any way. Furthermore, I can say from my own experience that I have not had any opposition from the NAM at any time. From the beginning, I had only the cooperation of the NAM. I cannot therefore endorse Mr Smaling's negative qualifications, even if he quotes others. I have my own experiences, which I now present.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u261	Mrs. Van Tongeren for her fourth and final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u262	I understand. There's gonna be a time when they're up. My question is actually about the same point. We have heard the Minister say a number of times tonight that the relationships are good, that everyone has security high. The Research Council finds that there is a culture of consensus. With respect for the minister who is part of that culture of consensus, it is not for him to judge whether he is indeed part of that culture of consensus. The minister says: I'm getting along with the NAM, I don't feel like I'm affecting the SodM, I'm getting along with TNO and KNMI, I've also gotten some advice from outside. That is precisely what the Research Council says that it is a small group of people who can find each other and who themselves have the idea of each other operating independently. The opinion of the Research Council is precisely that there is not enough critical opposition. That's very difficult, because you have to make two jumps. Firstly, you have to take the Research Council seriously and secondly, you have to look from a distance at your own functioning. For example, this is also evident from leaked e-mails that we received in 2013...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u263	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u264	Sorry, Mr President, this is my last question, but it is a very important question. Should the Minister not make another effort and consider whether it is possible that he too is now part of the consensus within the gas building and that, precisely for this reason, quite far-reaching measures would be needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u265	In this respect, too, I agree with the Research Council, which speaks of closed shop, old boys network. I think people with the best intentions have been in that place. Certainly those who have sat there on my behalf, on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs, have really tried to defend the general interest in conscience and honour. I have no doubt about that. It is true, however, that one was close to one another, that a small club actually carried the decision-making. That is why I said at a very early stage, shortly after my arrival, that I wanted to have the gas building vetted. I've been given advice on that and I'm working on it right now. Part of it is that I have deposited GasTerra's shareholding with the sg of Economic Affairs. Another element of this is that the input from Economic Affairs for the important decisions I take within GasTerra is submitted to me as an opinion and I then take a decision on them. So that is not done by our representatives in that organisation, but that is my decision. I'm not part of an old boys network, so I can assure you. The only old boys, old girls and as many young boys and girls network as possible I'm part of is the VVD. I also take part in the Council of Ministers and have a family, but that is all I have to say. So I have nothing to do with Shell, Exxon, NAM, old boys. I am solely focused on the public interest and take my decisions independently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u266	Then this minister would be about the only person in the world who is not affected by his surroundings and the advice he receives. The Minister said earlier this evening that he has been involved in the Council of Ministers for a long time and that, of course, he also bears indirect responsibility for these decisions. So maybe he's not an old boy first degree yet, but he's an old boy second degree. The Research Council invites you to reflect outside that circle. The advice requested by the Minister in August comes from the General Administrative Service, also one of the insiders, who may be at a somewhat greater distance. A few difficult, critically unthinking people already have the minister in the Chamber, but they are not getting so many feet to the ground yet. I would like to see this critical opposition being organized elsewhere, such as in our own ministry, where there is generally reasonable agreement. That's my last invitation, my last interruption of the evening, to see if it's possible that the minister transcending his own functioning has considered his own functioning sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u267	No, I'm not used to that. I represent the public interest and I am only committed to that. I would very much like to be advised from Economic Affairs because there is also a lot of critical mass there. There are many critical thinkers who are also given every opportunity to come forward with their views. They do, and that's what we're organizing in the Ministry. I will also ensure as much transparency as possible so that others can express their views on it. There will be no law until it has been consulted. We have also organised a separate advisory group for me with strategic questions on energy policy. That advisory group is linked to the Planning Bureau for the Environment, where expertise has been collected that advises me on this issue. Because I am so transparent towards the House of Representatives, I get a lot of opposition from the House of Representatives. This contributes to the fact that what I have to do, namely to ensure that I take the decisions that need to be taken solely for the sake of the public interest, particularly in view of the interests of the people of Groningen. I can assure you I will. As soon as I think I'm no longer capable of doing so, I'll report that to the Chamber and I'll do something else. I have already mentioned some of Mrs Klever's points. I do not believe that the Dutch are being cheated and fooled, I do not believe that the gas is being ripped open in full and I do not believe that we are using investigations as an excuse to postpone decisions. Mrs Klever said that not long ago the gas extraction in Groningen was just a little over 20 billion m and that it could be quite different. I hope Mrs Klever realises that there is a balance between the small fields and the large Groningen field. The policy has been, as I explained to the Chamber, that the small fields have first been exhausted. At that time, very little could be extracted from the Groningen field. When the small fields were exhausted, more was won from the Groningen field. That is the reality of the matter. We're dealing with that now the way we've been talking all night. We approach this in a different way and we look from the point of view of the safety of the people in Groningen how it can be best organised now and certainly also in the near future. Mrs Klever said she wants to stop exporting Groningengas. I can't do that. Groningen gas is low-caloric gas. People in part of Germany, Belgium and France are set up to do so with their equipment. We can't shut it down. They couldn't warm their house anymore. That is not legally possible, but it is also morally impossible. In the near future, the other countries will ensure that there will be a conversion of their equipment. They will switch to other equipment suitable for high-caloric gas or for high- and low-caloric gas. This starts in the year 2020 in Germany. This will also be continued in Belgium and France. By the way, we in the Netherlands will also start to do so in good time, to ensure that we switch and that the new equipment is suitable for both low-caloric and high-caloric gas. Mr Dijkgraaf expressed his views on the recommendations. He will be satisfied at that point. I very much agree with Mr Dijkgraaf that a reduction in gas consumption is desirable. We do the same with great force. We have an ambition to achieve 1.5% energy savings and more energy efficiency, especially in industry. We have a great ambition when it comes to energy saving in the built environment. I will soon come up with the heat vision, in which I will indicate what possibilities there are for even more use of heat, heat that is now lost but could be used for other purposes. Reducing gas consumption is an important element. That's in full play. In his contribution, Mr Öztürk came back to what he proposed 12 February, namely to create a nature reserve in Groningen and to move the Groningers. The Cabinet does not share that view. I have dealt with Mr Vos' points. Mr Krol asked which additional...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u268	I know the minister as a minister with a good memory. I also asked him to talk only about the quake area and the areas that are at risk. He now starts again about Groningen and with that he trivializes another line of thought. I'm sorry to hear that. It doesn't fit the minister either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u269	It's about the quake area in Groningen. Those were originally nine municipalities. Two municipalities have now been represented, namely Menterwolde and Hoogezand-Sappemeer. There are also other areas where earthquakes are felt, with their effects. So we're going to see if we shouldn't switch over to contour areas. This means that the area may be extended further. It is true that Mr Öztürk had the idea of converting that whole area of nine, eleven and perhaps even more municipalities into a nature reserve and letting the people move. That's okay, but you can think differently about it too, and I put it that way on 12 February. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u270	We're allowed to differ. That is not a problem, but it is important that everyone knows what we have put forward and what we have ideas about it, and that it remains so. We have talked about Loppersum, as an example to show that you can stimulate people with a voluntary buy-out and have a safe solution. That's a line of thought. I regret that the Minister does not want to leave that tunnel vision. My second question was about compensation. The Minister has mentioned many measures and apologized, but he does not compensate for the damage the people have suffered. I would like a concrete answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u271	I don't know who has tunnel vision. The Groningen rural area, i.e. the area east, south-east and part north-east of the city of Groningen, is an area with a long history and great cultural and socio-cultural value. It's an area of cohesion that's having a hard time. I see it as my task to ensure that this area is repaired and compensated and that it gets through. If it's all right, I want it to get through more than it went in. So I am not at all prepared to set up policies to facilitate people's exit from the area and develop a nature reserve there, as Mr Öztürk said. I'm really not prepared to do that, and I don't know who has tunnel vision. As far as compensation is concerned, I have indicated that a total amount of 320 million has been earmarked for the economy, in particular for the chemical sector, for viability and for the increase in value, of which 260 million has been allocated by the State/NAM. For example, a scheme is that with €1,000-plus damages €4,000 will be available for an increase in the value of the property. In fact, this regulation is being redesigned. It will change, but that is the situation until now. I believe that this indicates that compensation is not only necessary but is also achieved in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u272	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u273	Mr Krol asked what additional solutions I had in mind. I was convinced, apart from the report of the Security Research Council, that much had to be done. I have also worked out this in detail in the original administrative agreement with the province and the municipalities. Following further developments, we then concluded a supplement to the administrative agreement with each other. There are a large number of measures which must now be implemented. Should there be any need for additions on parts, I am always willing to do so, but ultimately it is about realising the effects for the people in Groningen with whom their rights are done in their interests, who have been affected. That is what we want to achieve with these measures. I will therefore continue to strive for the objective I have just set out, both in the implementation of the measures and in a possible addition. Mr Bosman clearly indicated that he wished to see the recommendations accepted. I've gone into that. He also wants to fundamentally modify the gas building. He says that this is not an easy task, but that a number of things must be done. I have also addressed this issue in detail. Mr Bosman was the last person to speak, which led to my being a little short to him. I am thinking of starting next time, when he is the last spokesperson, with the last spokesperson to do justice to Mr Bosman in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u274	I'm gonna use my last interruption, if that's okay. I'll come back to the relationship with the NAM. On page 66 it says: "In view of the large scale of the underground intervention and the unknownness of the mechanisms in the subsurface and the benefits of gas extraction, the Research Council considers that NAM has failed to fulfil its duty of care as an operator to further explore these uncertainties and to develop active knowledge about the effects of the activities." It also says: "NAM should have shared this knowledge proactively and should have done more research and surveyed the security uncertainties of the inhabitants of the host mining area." Now the minister is just here telling us that he has worked very nicely with the NAM and that there have never been any problems. On page 66 of the report, however, there is a long, sad list of how that company has been misbehaving for years and has just fooled the people in Groningen. Isn't that right? Why is there such a difference between the way I read that page and the way the Minister talks about his relationship with the NAM? That's unbelievable!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u275	No, because the Research Council for Security investigated everything until 2013. I became Minister of Economic Affairs in the last months of 2012. So my experiences with the NAM only occur from that moment on. If I have bad experiences, I'll report them. When I have good experiences, I say so. And I have good experiences with the NAM. It is clear to me that everything went wrong before that. I also described this in scents and colors in my introduction. I have indicated that I acknowledge and regret this and that I am very sorry that this has happened. I mentioned all those involved in the gas extraction and of course the NAM is one of them. However, I have driven mainly from myself and my own responsibility. However, I do not contradict what the Research Council says about the situation until 2013. I can only say that it is also important that we finally get it on track and that it is moving in the right direction. Given my experiences with the NAM in the last two years........................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u276	Last time, Mr. Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u277	The Minister's ability to deal with the NAM during this term of office, I am happy to take it for notification. We are, of course, talking about the period covered by this report. What I have just read in part is extremely serious. That is why I ask the Minister to be more generous and frank about the step of regret towards apology and thus also about liability, both for the Empire and for the NAM.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u278	I was very clear about Mr Smaling's input on the words chosen. I have indicated why I have come to my words. I have already given my answer to this point and I shall now, in the second instance, say nothing but just now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u279	This brings to an end the first term of office. Some Members have asked me to suspend. How much time exactly are we thinking of before this suspension?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u280	I was thinking a suspension of more than half an hour. If we could suspend until 11.15 p.m., that would be very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u281	That's almost 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u282	I was thinking about a 15-minute suspension, because I just need a minute. If another fraction needs more time, I'd be happy to give her that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u283	Half an hour is fine, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u284	Shall we try to move at 11:00 p.m.? That gives you a good chance, but then we put a little pressure on it. Then we all try to finish the debate by 24:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u285	Of course we want to do our best. If we finish earlier, we'll be done with the suspension sooner. We would like to try to make a price at 11 p.m., but if we need a little more time, I expect some coulance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u286	At least I'll suspend until 11:00, and I wish you the best of luck with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u287	In the second term, I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Van Tongeren van GroenLinks. Speaking time is two minutes per group, including reading one or more motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u288	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Security Research Council makes five recommendations to strengthen the security importance, to recognise uncertainty and to communicate better;]] [[invites the Government to adopt all recommendations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Ministry of Economic Affairs receives the oil and gas benefits, grants the licences and is responsible for monitoring;]] [[noting that the Security Research Council recommends strengthening the independence of State supervision of the Mines vis-à-vis the Ministry and the sector;]] [[calls on the Government to give State supervision of the Mines a more independent position, for example by making it an independent administrative body or bringing it to another ministry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the parties involved in the extraction of gas have not been careful with regard to the safety of the citizens of Groningen;]] [[noting that the safety of the citizens of Groningen is still at stake as a result of gas extraction;]] [[calls on the government, as soon as possible, to limit gas extraction in Groningen to the lowest level required for our foreign contracts, the Dutch households and companies, while maintaining a relatively safe extraction pattern, but up to 30 billion mgas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Tongeren, Van Veldhoven, Agnes Mulder, Krol, Öztürk and Smaling.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-125]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Tongeren, Van Veldhoven, Agnes Mulder and Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-126]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren, Slob, Krol and Klever. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-127]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u289	I would also like to say that I find the process going on since the report of the Research Council on Security disappointing. I would have liked it very much if the Minister had embraced the conclusions within one or two days, had made his apology and came up with a decision as soon as possible to close the gas tap further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u290	Mr. Chairman. Two or three weeks ago, during a debate on gas extraction in Groningen, I concluded that all citizens in the Netherlands are entitled to safety, but this is not so much true when you live in Groningen. During that debate, we have already asked the Minister intrusive questions about what is now known to the Cabinet and the Chamber about the security risks of the current gas extraction and of the non-adapted policies. These risks are unacceptablely high and foreseeable. Because we're being warned about it. They're also averted. We can further reduce gas extraction in order to further safeguard the safety of the Groningers or at least not put at risk to this extent. Today, in this debate, the cabinet has had the opportunity to show that it is serious to the cabinet when it says that it regrets that it has ignored the warnings of recent years and that the security of the Groningen people has not been sufficiently taken into account in the decisions on gas extraction. However, those words are not worth so much if you continue to beat the current warnings in the wind. We must conclude that this cabinet is willingly risking the security of residents in the Netherlands. In such a cabinet, the Party for Animals cannot have confidence. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the State has failed seriously in its responsibility to ensure the safety of citizens in the decisions on gas extraction in Groningen;]] [[Considering that warnings and advice on security have been in the wind for years and that the Human Rights College has concluded that the State has thereby ignored human rights;]] [[noting that reports, investigations and warnings are now known to the Cabinet that the current gas production ceiling poses unacceptable risks to the safety of citizens in Groningen;]] [[noting that the cabinet regrets that in the past the security of Groningers has not been sufficiently taken into account in the decisions, but does not have any consequences by effectively reducing the extraction of gas to a level that can be justified;]] [[Considering that the government continues to take foreseeable and avertable risks with the security of citizens in the process of gas extraction in Groningen;]] [[says confidence in the cabinet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-128]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u291	I would like to emphasise that the motion is addressed to the cabinet and not just to the minister. They are cabinet decisions and it is also explicitly the Prime Minister's deal. Since the Chamber also has a duty to do so, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Research Council for Security in its investigation into the decision-making of gas extraction in Groningen from 1959 to 2014 draws firm conclusions on how the State has dealt with the safety of Groningen;]] [[considers that the Court would benefit from a thorough examination of the decision-making process itself in order to draw lessons from it for the future, and that the possibility of taking part in an oath has great added value;]] [[calls on the Bureau to draw up a committee to prepare a parliamentary inquiry into the decision-making of gas extraction in Groningen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-129]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u292	Mr. Chairman. Mr Vos ended his first term with the well-known saying that trust comes on foot and goes on horseback. This is also evident from the so-called NAM Confidence Meter launched by RTV Noord in January. A second intermediate position is now known. Trust in the NAM is incredibly low. 92.4% of people had no confidence in her at the end of January. In February it is even worse by 93.6%. It takes a lot to get the trust back. If there were a government confidence indicator for this dossier, those percentages would probably not be very different. This means that we must do everything we can to ensure that this debate was so important to restore confidence. I mentioned a number of things. I welcome the adoption of the recommendations or at least the opinion of the Court. That could be the beginning of the restoration of trust. I am deeply disappointed that the movement of clarity has unfortunately not been made when it comes to the extraction of gas for 2015. I sincerely regret that both the coalition parties and the minister are not yet clear before 2015. My group has co-signed a number of motions calling for them. I don't have many illusions that they're gonna make it, but who knows, there's gonna be movement in a place where it's supposed to happen now, which is the coalition. Handling the damage is also very important. As far as I am concerned, the special chamber I asked for is intended to set up independence very explicitly, to build up specialism and to restore confidence. This has nothing to do with capacity and such, but rather with the restoration of confidence. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that gas extraction in Groningen poses a risk to the safety of citizens and causes damage to buildings and infrastructure;]] [[Whereas five professors of the University of Groningen have suggested the extension of the District Court of the North Netherlands to a special chamber and that this special chamber should also supervise the settlement of the damage;]] [[considers that the restoration of confidence also relates to the resolution of the damage;]] [[calls on the Government to include the above suggestion for the establishment of a special chamber in the further elaboration of the recommendations of the Research Council for Security and the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Slob and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-130]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u293	My time is up. The rest will come at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u294	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the motion first. Then I will say a few more words. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government expressed its regret at the lack of attention to safety at the gas extraction stage in Groningen;]] [[noting that, after the investigation report of the Research Council for Security came out, the government had not yet decided to adjust the gas extraction ceiling;]] [[Whereas this regret is very much appreciated, but it must be noted that this valuable gesture concerns only the past;]] [[Whereas the consensus is that less mining leads to fewer earthquakes, thereby reducing security risks for the inhabitants of Groningen;]] [[calls on the Government to make Groningen's concerns prevail and also to clarify them for the near future by reducing the gas extraction ceiling to around 30 billion m of gas in 2015, based on security of supply and a safe extraction pattern,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Van Veldhoven and Mr Slob. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-131]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u295	Mr. Chairman. It glooms the CDA that the Minister for Economic Affairs is currently producing more gas every month than the CDA would like. We believe that this cabinet could further reduce production, also with a view to security of supply. The cabinet would therefore take the concerns of the Groningen people seriously. We regret that the Minister does not yet want to draw any consequences on the level of gas extraction. We also really hope that the Minister will bring down gas extraction on 1 July when the decision is taken. With that, the Minister shows that he really takes the Groningers seriously. So we hope this will happen, preferably as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u296	Mr. Chairman. Today, we discussed the main points of the report of the Security Research Council. I think we have called on the Minister from the left to the right to strengthen his remorse and to turn it into action and to adopt the recommendations contained in the report. Motions have already been tabled. However, I still have two short motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government is holding on to the 30.4 billion m extraction decision for 2015 despite a reduction in extraction in the first half of 2015;]] [[Whereas the reduction in extraction in the first half of 2015 should not lead to an increase in the second half of 2015;]] [[points out that gas extraction should be reversed to the lowest possible level guaranteeing security of supply and a safe extraction pattern;]] [[Notes that on 1 July 2015, it is not possible for gas extraction to exceed 35 billion m on an annual basis;]] [[calls on the Government to take a decision to that end,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Veldhoven and Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-132]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u297	This is still the most important question for the people of Groningen, and that is why we think it is important to underline this point once again. Then I come to one of the five recommendations addressed by the Minister. I always try to listen carefully to what the Minister says. As regards the adaptation of the gas building, he said that the gas is the property of the NAM, that he cannot just get there and that he will see how he could get the cooperation and how else he will realize that the structure of the gas building will be fundamentally adapted. We would like to give the Minister a little support in that process, should that be necessary. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Research Council for Security concludes that safety played hardly any role in decision-making on gas extraction in Groningen;]] [[calls on the Government to adapt the gas building and the concession to the NAM in such a way as to increase the scope for the Minister to intervene early from the point of view of security,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Veldhoven, Van Tongeren and Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-133]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u298	In doing so, we want to solve the problem that the Minister, for the evidence that he needs to adapt the activities, depends on the party that has an interest in the extraction of gas. Early intervention is important before the risks arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u299	Mr. Chairman. I'll start the motions right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government expressed its regret at the problems experienced by Groningers as a result of gas extraction;]] [[calls on the government to turn this regret into formal excuses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas private parties have benefited greatly from gas extraction in Groningen over the decades;]] [[noting that the Security Research Council indicated that these parties had had no regard for the safety of Groningers for 20 years;]] [[calls on the government to examine whether past profits distributed and future profits to be paid are recovered or recovered. may be frozen in order to ensure rapid and adequate compensation for damage caused by gas extraction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Security Research Council recommends that the gas building be adapted;]] [[noting that we already have to switch from gas to renewable energy;]] [[calls on the government, instead of setting up a gas building, to build a sustainable energy house and to allow it to be populated by a broad reflection of society,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-134]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-135]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-136]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u300	Are we here today? No, we're not here yet. According to the SP Group, there is still a very strong discrepancy between security as experienced in Groningen and security as expressed by the Minister. Whether these two are getting closer will have to tell the near future. At the end of March, we will get back together. That is also the moment for the SP Group when we can do business or pay for it. I would like to hear what the Minister of Motions thinks and how we can proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u301	Mr. Chairman. The Minister is sorry, but as far as the gas supply and safety of the Groningers is concerned, he is not shrinking. The Minister is hiding behind the 39.4 billion cub agreed with the State surveillance of the Mines, while the report of the Research Council for Security shows precisely that authorities such as the State surveillance of the Mines and the Ministry of Economic Affairs have been cheating for 20 years. Moreover, the Minister consistently does not answer critical questions of my response and other groups. He comes up with misconceptions, drowns on the same straw or puts the questions away if not serious. I had an experience of this with the Minister four months ago in dealing with the energy budget. Then he described the PVV proposal to use the LNG terminal to replace the Groningen gas as not serious, while today he indicated in the newspaper and in this debate that he would like to investigate this. We are tired of investigating that too. We're a gas roundabout, for God's sake. We import and export billions of tubs of gas every year and the equipment and knowledge to convert it, we have been in the house for years, but we do not use it. That's the problem. Apparently, the Minister is still following the line set out in the report of the Research Council, namely: profit maximization over security. All this makes the Minister completely unbelievable. That is why the PVV will support the motion of censure that has just been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u302	Mr Klein said that he could no longer be present at the debate. He's apologizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u303	Mr. Chairman. Restoration of trust is necessary. A lot of people say that. A first condition for this is that regret is expressed. The Minister has done so, for which I am grateful. A second condition is that there should be a new package of measures in which one has confidence. I think there are two important parts. The first point is that all recommendations of the Research Council must be followed. The Minister has said a great deal about this, but I think it is a good thing that the Chamber also lays it down. That is why we have co-signed the motion that Mr Vos will make on behalf of us and others. We simply need to put that clearly here. The second point is the level of gas extraction. Others have said the necessary things about this. I have already expressed my opinion in the case of interruption, so it will not be a surprise for the Minister. The Minister says more research is needed to bring down the extraction and he says he can't do that until 1 July. I understand that reasoning for the range between 23 and 35 billion cuub, but I do not understand that reasoning, quite frankly, for the range between 35 and 39.4 billion cuub. I do hear a procedural but not a substantive story. In making a gesture of confidence recovery, the recommendations of the Research Council are important, but it would also be nice if the Minister could change his position on the issue of extraction. However, I do not expect the Minister to suddenly say 'do 35 billion cuub' in the second term, because that is not how we know the Minister, and that is perhaps a good thing. Then this Chamber will have to make a statement, saying clearly: 35 billion cub is the maximum. That is why I co-signed Mrs van Veldhoven's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u304	Mr. Chairman. We want the Groningen people to be compensated through a compensation fund. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, according to the recommendations of the Security Research Council, residents should be excused from politics, that they should now discuss the extraction of gas and that they should be better informed about the risks in future;]] [[noting that this is not a fundamental solution and that the inhabitants will continue to be affected by earthquakes (with all the misery involved);]] [[calls on the government to provide concrete compensation to residents by allowing 10% of gas revenues to flow into a compensation fund each year, which really solves the problems in the earthquake area in a structural way,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-137]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u305	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the first-term answers. I would also like to table a motion on the adoption of the recommendations made by the Security Research Council, the subject of today's debate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Security Research Council concludes that parties involved in the extraction of gas have not handled the safety of citizens involved in the extraction of gas carefully;]] [[invites the Government to adopt all recommendations and to report to the Chamber as soon as possible and within six weeks at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Jan Vos, Bosman, Slob and Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-138]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u306	Mr. Chairman. For the sake of clarity, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the natural gas income since 1960 has been around EUR 265 billion and these natural gas benefits have benefited the entire Dutch population;]] [[Whereas the resolution of damage caused by the extraction of gas is still too cautious and too slow;]] [[Whereas the region is being compensated too little for the negative effects of gas extraction;]] [[calls on the government, the precautionary principle for the region and its residents, to take greater account of the decision-making process on gas extraction;]] [[calls on the Government to make generous efforts to resolve the "emergency debt" to Groningen and to make proposals to the Court with a view to substantially intensifying prevention, settlement of damages and compensation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-139]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u307	Mr Bosman has indicated that he will not make use of his second term. That is the end of the second term of the Chamber. The Minister has indicated that he can reply immediately if he has all the motions. I'm not suspending, but we're just gonna wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u308	Thank you. There was a minor sentence building problem in this motion. The piece "to compensate for damage caused by gas extraction quickly and adequately" can be removed from the motion. Then the motion is running more or less.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u309	The Smaling motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas private parties have benefited greatly from gas extraction in Groningen over the decades;]] [[noting that the Security Research Council indicated that these parties had had no regard for the safety of Groningers for 20 years;]] [[calls on the government to examine whether past profits distributed and future profits to be paid are recovered or recovered. may be frozen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 135 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u310	Mr. Chairman. You have given me ample opportunity in the first instance to respond to the Chamber's contribution. You have also given me ample opportunity to respond to interruptions. I will therefore be brief in my reactions to the motions because otherwise I would repeat myself too much. Once I have dealt with the motions, I will see if there are any comments from spokesmen to which they expect a response from my side. Mrs Van Tongeren asks the government in her motion for a resolution on item No. 125 to take over all recommendations. I'll leave the verdict on that motion to the Chamber. I told you how I feel about the recommendations. I see it as my task to continue to fill in the recommendations and to work out them and to join the Chamber by the end of the month. I shall therefore leave this motion to the Chamber. Mrs Van Tongeren's motion on item No. 126 deals with State surveillance of the mines. It considers that this should put state surveillance in an independent position. This possibility is, of course, being discussed because of the opinion of the Research Council. I'm looking at this with an open eye. I'm gonna check it out. We will take a position as a cabinet before the end of the month. Mrs Van Tongeren suggests that state supervision be made an independent administrative body or that it be transferred to another ministry. I do not exclude both possibilities, but I note that an independent administrative body is not so obvious, because the policy of the cabinet is right that we want less independent administrative bodies. Moreover, we are looking at where all the supervisors are located and how, as a cabinet, we should have a general view on the accommodation of supervisors. As a whole, I'll take it with me. Because of the reference to the independent administrative body, which I do not think is desirable, and because I am looking at this with an open eye, as I have already said, this motion has no added value. That's why I'm deposing this motion. Mrs Van Tongeren wishes to be included in the motion on item No. 127 that we turn off the gas tap as soon as possible. She mentions a maximum of 30 billion m for this year. I have highlighted this from all sides, both for this year and for the future, from 1 January next. That doesn't match what's in this motion. That's why I don't recommend the motion. In the motion in part No. 128 Mrs Ouwehand expresses her confidence in the cabinet. I hope that the Chamber will abstain from supporting this motion so that we can continue the work which we believe should continue. I'm dissuading the motion. In the motion in part No. 129 states, Mrs Ouwehand, that a parliamentary survey should be prepared. I'd like to leave the verdict on that motion to the Chamber. It's up to the Chamber to decide how she wants to control the cabinet. I have no further idea about that. In the motion in part No. Mr Slob asked the government to consider setting up a special chamber. I have indicated that there may be two reasons for this, but they do not apply. That's why I advise against this motion. I say 'Mr Slob', but it is a motion from Mr Slob and Mrs Van Tongeren. I now come to the motion on part No. 131 by Mrs Mulder c.s. It calls on me to achieve a gas extraction of up to 30 billion m for this year. The motion is similar to that in part No. 127, which I didn't recommend. For the same reason, I also advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 132 by Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mr Dijkgraaf state that gas extraction is excluded above 35 billion cubic metres. I went into detail on what is going on here. This summary doesn't match what I've brought in to the Chamber. That's why I'm deposing this motion. In her motion in part No. 133 asks Mrs Van Veldhoven to adapt the gas building and the concession to the NAM in such a way as to increase the scope for the minister to intervene early from the point of view of security. I do not feel limited in my ability to intervene prematurely. If I believe that security requires early intervention, I can do so under the Mining Act. Moreover, I feel that if I decide to do so, regardless of what is in the Mining Act, it will also be implemented. I don't need what it says here. That is why I have tabled the motion in part No. 133 by Mrs Van Veldhoven and others Disruption. Mr Smaling asks for what I have said about recognition, regret and very sorry to turn into formal excuses. I look at that differently than Mr Smaling. I said why I chose those words and why I think I should do it this way and not otherwise. The motion in part No. Mr Smaling's 134, I advise you. In the motion in part No. 135 asks Mr Smaling to recover distributed profits and freeze future profits in order to make investments in the security of the Groningen. This motion is not necessary. If we want to do things, need money and have it paid by the NAM, then that is by definition at the expense of future profits. This applies both to our profit distribution, the State's share, and to Shell's and ExxonMobil's profits. In practice, this is already happening. For this reason, I believe that this motion has no added value. To the extent that this added value could consist of the recovery of past profits, I do not think that, for legal reasons, on the basis of the agreement we concluded with interested parties, it is possible, apart from the fact that it is not necessary either, because future profits provide sufficient scope to make the necessary expenditure. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 135.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u311	It takes two to tango. I understand that from his own point of view, the Minister provides the motions with an opinion. On the basis of the report, I ask the Minister to offer an opening to that liability. Both motions he's just commented on are about that. I am of course aware that the NAM contributes to damage recovery. But when I read the report, there may also be a situation that the NAM has demonstrably operated on. It also says: to investigate for recovery or freezing to take place. These investigations give the Minister the opportunity to look at them first. I urge him, also in the interests of getting closer between him and me and my group, to make a different assessment of it than he is doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u312	I have a need to meet Mr Smaling and his group, but I do not see any possibility of that on the point of this motion. If the NAM has to pay, it will be at the expense of future profits. I have no legal means to recover profits from the past. I can't do that, and besides, there's no need. I am sorry that I cannot take advantage of this opportunity offered by Mr Smaling to get closer to him and his group. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 135. In his motion in part No. 136 Mr Smaling asked the government to set up a sustainable energy house instead of a gas building and to allow it to be populated by a broad reflection of society. Gas is not our biggest enemy when it comes to fossil energy. We have a lot of enemies there: North Pole oil, oil from countries that we really do not want and coal that we do not really want. Gas is still the least polluting fossil energy carrier. I believe that, in the transition to renewable energy, fossil energy is still needed for some time, and that gas is not the worst of it, quite the contrary. The creation of an infrastructure to produce renewable energy is certainly going to happen. We need to involve as many people as possible, because we need broad support for this. However, I would not want to put that against gas. That is why I advise against Mr Smaling's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u313	It's not up against it. It is time to seize the opportunity to replace something that has proven to have not worked properly with something that the future has. That is what the motion is about. Gas is part of a sustainable energy house, because we won't be off the gas overnight. The Minister and I share that view. You can now completely redesign that gas building and give parties that play a role in the energy supply of the future a position in it, including parties that are now active in the gas building. I would say: seize the momentum and give a different judgment on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u314	This explanation by Mr Smaling is not unsympathetic. However, the gas building has been in existence since 1963. Hard agreements are at the root of this. We are currently looking at how the gas building should be adapted and how agreements should be adapted. I have already received advice on this and I will come back to that in the 2015 Energy Report this year. I can't say right now that something should come instead of the gas building. That's not realistic. I'm stuck with that gas building, and I don't think it's wrong. If the necessary adjustments can be made, it can also have value for the future. I do not detract from the importance of renewable energy and I feel supported by Mr Smaling. However, as he has put forward this motion, I cannot leave it to the Chamber and I would advise against it. Mr Özturk, in his motion on item No. 137 of the gas revenues flow into a compensation fund. That is not in line with our policy. Our policy is that the gas revenues, which are under considerable pressure as a result of the developments known to the Chamber, come into the budget. For what should be done towards Groningen, we have alternative funding. This motion is not an improvement on the current situation, quite the contrary. That's why I'm telling her off. The motion in part No. 138 by Mr Vos c.s. is concerned with the recommendations of the Security Research Council, its follow-up and its reporting to the Chamber. Just like about the motion in part No. 125, I'll leave this to the Chamber. In his motion in part No. 139 calls on Mr Krol to give greater weight to the precautionary principle for the region and also to move towards a generous discharge of the debt of honour by significantly intensifying prevention, resolution of damages and compensation. We have great ambitions with regard to resolution of damage, prevention and compensation. I have concluded agreements on these ambitions with the province of Groningen and with the municipalities in Groningen. Besides, I've indicated cover for that. I do not want what I have just agreed and what I think is adequate to intensify now. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 139 by Mr Krol. I am looking at other contributions from the spokesmen I have yet to respond to. Mrs Klever said that she will support Mrs Ouwehand's motion because the matter has been set up and I come up with the same misconceptions and the same whim every time. I have the feeling that some people sometimes think that when they hear Mrs Klever speak. I would like to leave it to her and her group to decide whether or not to support a motion. It's not for me to comment on that. I have dealt with Mr Dijkgraaf's points in my previous comments, as in my first term. I believe that I have provided all the input and all the motions for resolutions with a response, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u315	Thank you. Mrs Ouwehand has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u316	Well, Mr. Chairman, it's actually two communications to you. I have tabled a motion on a parliamentary survey, on item No. 129. The Chamber is going to deal with the report of the Security Research Council. I therefore wish to hold this motion for the time being. As far as my group is concerned, the bottom stone must emerge. This motion can serve as a stick behind the door.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u317	At the request of Mrs Ouwehand, I propose her motion (33529, No. 129). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u318	I also say that the responsibility for the security of the inhabitants of the Netherlands lies not only with the cabinet, but also with the Chamber. That is why I would like to have a roll-call vote on my motion on item No. 128.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u319	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-20.u320	I have found that there is a need for a number of groups in the Chamber to vote on the motion for a resolution this evening. 128, Mrs Ouwehand's motion of censure. All the other motions that have been tabled for this debate will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes. Then there is a roll-call vote on the motion of censure.
