ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the Chamber, I would like to welcome the ambassadors of Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine to the Chair. Your Excellencies. It is my pleasure to welcome you on behalf of the Members of the House of Representatives to this debate on the association agreements of the European Union with the countries you represent in the Netherlands: Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the PVV Group, too, I warmly welcome the ambassadors. Yet I do not have a very nice story for them on behalf of the PVV. The PVV, of course, sees the strategic importance of free trade and a good understanding with the countries to the east of the European Union. The agreements we are discussing today provide for this in part. But with that we are also immediately done mentioning the interfaces with the PVV-election programme. Good cooperation must never be an excuse for European recklessness. In the case of the association agreements, the removal of trade barriers is being used to ultimately extend the power of that federal EU dream. If it is up to the PVV Group, it will not come from the latter in a hundred thousand years. However, it is interesting to see that all kinds of hidden development projects are being carried out. They will then be included in the agreements. As an example, I would like to mention the strengthening of the judicial authorities in the countries concerned. Cooperation in the fields of environmental protection, education and culture also makes it clear that these agreements are steeped in the EU ideology designed at the Brussels drawing tables. Why do we allow development projects to accompany the removal of trade barriers? Why should Dutch entrepreneurs and hard-working citizens give up their hard-earned money so that Brussels can carry out reforms in Moldova, Ukraine and Georgia in the context of, among other things, environment and culture? That's what happens with our money. Why should the European Union strengthen judicial authorities when the countries mentioned should take responsibility for this? The PVV sees nothing in the chords for another reason. There is no such thing as a so-called cultural connection, whereas, according to the agreements, this cultural connection forms the basis for political cooperation. According to Freedom House, all three countries score poorly in terms of civil and political freedoms. According to Transparency International, Ukraine became even more corrupt in 2014. The country scores even worse than Nigeria, Iran, Russia and Morocco. Moldova also scored significantly insufficient in 2014 in the area of corruption, worse than China and Morocco among others. These are clear figures on the basis of which the PVV concludes that political integration in these countries will never have any chance, not even in a union we would never want. The PVV does not feel any cultural connection with these countries, where corruption is in all the heart of society. Should we open up this European subsidy crane for these countries? Decades of mismanagement and a disproportionate influence of the oligarchs on the economy are the cause of corruption in Ukraine. For example, the Minister himself asks it in response to written questions. Here, too, I ask why the European Union should reverse this with subsidies and reforms. That's a legitimate question, isn't it? The disproportionate impact of the oligarchs on the economy must be overcome. How is the European Union going to do that? How, for example, is the influence of oligarchs on the media in Ukraine limited? The President of Ukraine, Poroshenko, is one of the oligarchs; he owns a television channel. Is the Minister going to lecture him, too? Reports also show that there is a battle going on between the different oligarchs in Ukraine. One of them, Igor Kolooisky, even has a private army. How does the Minister assess these developments? What does this say about Ukraine's future perspective as a democratic rule of law and as part of the European internal market? Where is the hope or expectation that Ukraine will bring added value to the other EU countries in this turbulent phase of the agreement? The PVV does not want to link Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine to the infusion of the European taxpayer. At our expense opening the borders to citizens from these countries seems to us to be a very, very bad plan. The visa facilitation for these countries is also a thorn in our eye. What does this Netherlands get for any more immigrant workers who flood our labour market? How many corrupt people and criminals can we expect from Ukraine? I would like to hear a response from this Minister. The position of the PVV is crystal clear. My group is and remains opposed to enlargement of the European Union. This applies to direct enlargement, but also to indirect enlargement through partnerships and association agreements. They are also a step in the wrong direction for us. Our message is clear: we do not want this, we want it from the European Union, from the European area and even from Schengen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. The armed conflict in eastern Ukraine has already claimed at least 6,000 victims. The United Nations even takes into account that the actual death toll is much higher. Fortunately, there is now a stock which significantly reduces violence, but it is certainly not unthinkable that large-scale, open hostilities should be resumed at a later date. The conditions for lasting peace still seem to be far away. The change of power in Kiev, in February last year, triggered the uprising in the east of the country. Pro-European demonstrators at Maidan Square then refused to accept the deal agreed with the then President Yanukovych with the support of EU countries. That deal included returning to the 2004 Constitution and early elections. However, the protesters demanded nothing less than the departure of the corrupt leader. It became Yanukovych too hot and he fled to Russia, the country that supports the rebels in eastern Ukraine and annexed Crimea in March last year. The demonstrations at Maidan Square cannot be separated from the international strut between the European Union and Russia around Ukraine. Others would say: a geopolitical struggle for spheres of influence. When President Yanukovych refused to sign a political agreement and trade agreement with the European Union in November 2013, demonstrations broke out in the country, especially in the western part. Eventually, this resulted in dozens of deaths and, after the president's flight, a new pro-Western government. Today we are discussing the association agreement that led to the crisis in Ukraine. The fact that so much violence is directly or indirectly associated with the signing or non-signing of an agreement raises many questions. History does not reveal its alternatives, but the question of whether the political violence and the war in Ukraine would have broken out even if the signing of the association agreement had not been discussed should be raised. There is now the impression that violence in the highly divided Ukraine is a result of the choice the country is proposing: more Russia or more Ukraine. I'd like to hear the Minister's response to this. This includes questions about the analyses carried out in Europe on the consequences of entering into an association agreement with Ukraine. The sad conclusion is that it has not been realised in time that the EU position could lead to rising tensions and ultimately to violent violence. How does the Minister look back on this today? Today, the ratification of the association agreement with Georgia and Moldova is also ahead, two countries which I would like to express with caution also maintain a complicated relationship with Russia. Just think of the apostate pro-Russian regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia in Georgia and Transnistria in Moldova. In view of developments in Ukraine, the impact of the further implementation of the association agreements and the associated free trade agreements should also be questioned with regard to these two countries. Russia has strengthened relations with Abkhazia and South Ossetia. Does the Minister see this in the context of steps towards the West and towards Europe, but also NATO, through Georgia? Are new developments expected in Transnistria? And then there is the autonomous Gagauzia in Moldova, where last year an overwhelming majority voted by referendum for membership of the customs union with Russia and against the association agreement with the European Union. Does this region have a future within Moldova if tensions continue and increase? The association agreement does not apply to the renegade regions and therefore not to parts of the population of the three countries. What are the consequences? Doesn't this make the gap between east and west even bigger than it is now? Isn't that a risk? Doesn't this contribute to a further division? Ukraine could also face additional measures from Russia if the Association Agreement is further implemented. President Putin has already warned about this. It is striking that implementation of the free trade component of the agreement has been postponed for a year. Can the Minister comment on the possible consequences for Ukraine? Which scenarios are taken into account? Is there indeed an economic damage of as much as USD 160 billion taken into account in Ukraine? This was referred to earlier in an article in Der Spiegel. Is additional financial support from the European Union of almost bankrupt Ukraine taken into account? Can the Minister elaborate on all these questions about possible consequences for the three countries? Or is the answer that Europe is once again closing its eyes to this? The population of both Moldova and Ukraine is very divided as to whether closer links should be established with Russia or with Europe. This is to a lesser extent true of Georgia, especially in the apostate regions. Issues such as signing the Association Agreement and the NATO membership promised for Georgia and Ukraine can easily contribute to increasing tensions and contradictions among the population. That is potentially extremely dangerous. That's what we're seeing right now in Ukraine. I have repeatedly argued that there should be a form of cooperation with the European Union for those countries which are divided internally, so that this cooperation does not exclude the strengthening of cooperation with Russia. The Minister states that membership of a customs union proposed by Russia is legally incompatible with the free trade agreement in the European Union. I would like to hear an explanation from him as to why both foreign policy instruments cannot go together and why it has not been possible to find a solution to this problem. I told you, the implementation of the free trade section of the agreement has been postponed for a year for Ukraine. This is because Ukraine wanted to keep room for Russian concerns about the application of trade agreements between the European Union and Ukraine. There would be about 2,000 proposals from Russia on the table to adapt the association agreement. Can the Minister state the state of play? Have solutions been found for the many points of dispute, or at least at your fingertips? Can he indicate the expected impact of the implementation of the reforms mentioned in the Association Agreement on the population of the three countries? About Ukraine, the Minister writes to the Chamber that the Association Agreement, together with the terms and conditions attached to the macro-financial IMF programme, is the best guarantee that the country will continue the reform course. This is what I'm worried about. Ukraine will not be the first country to continue poverty driven by so-called IMF aid packages. I shall conclude with a question on the suspensive effect of the association agreements. The Minister writes that the non-respect of democratic principles, of human rights, of fundamental freedoms as defined in international treaties and of the rule of law has suspensive effect. This should mean, for example, that if a country violates human rights grossly, the association agreement will no longer apply. The Minister also states that there is no question of violating the essential elements on the basis of which the agreement should be suspended for the three countries concerned. In particular, as far as Ukraine is concerned, the SP considers this to be unbelievable. It is quite simply the case that there are gross violations of war law in the east of the country and that the Kiev government is guilty of this too. The Minister will also receive the reports from Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International on this, won't he? Those reports include the deployment of cluster munitions and Grad missiles in inhabited areas. Can the Minister elaborate on this? Can it indicate the circumstances under which, according to the Minister, suspension would be considered? It is important that this part of the agreement does not remain a dead letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. What exactly is an association agreement? It's a fancy free trade agreement. Moreover, in my view, it is still one of the most effective means of foreign policy in the European Union. As I say to Mr Beertema, it is not a pre-accession portal. But it is a little more than a free trade agreement, which, by the way, we have with most countries. A cooperation and association agreement imposes far-reaching obligations on contracting parties with regard to the development of their rule of law, i.e. the predictability and stability that entrepreneurs need to invest. At the same time, it affects the core of the Dutch conviction as enshrined in our Constitution, namely the promotion of the international legal order to be pursued by the Netherlands. To put it simply, where there is law, stability and predictability, you can make good money. In Moldova, we do the same. That's where we're number one investor. In Ukraine we are also in the top three. In Georgia, we're still a little behind, but I'll get to that later. Countries are completely free to choose whether or not to do business with the largest market in the world and to conclude treaties with the European Union. The criticism of the Maidan rebellion which was also heard in this Chamber, the offer of a free trade agreement, would be a kind of act of enemy aggression, and it is a sign of shame for its own principles, so to speak; a white flag. I'd almost say, in PVV style, some sort of "dimmy mentality." Let us be clear, we are not talking about membership of NATO, a military organisation, nor about joining the largest economic power bloc, the European Union. We are talking about goods, services and capital that can soon be traded on the basis of our standards. To put it even more clearly, where some countries send green males across the border to empty countries' standards, we send a few thousand black-and-white pages full of regulations ranging from food hygiene to security of intellectual property.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u5	Now that Mr Ten Broeke has referred to it, we are not talking about offering NATO membership, he has just said literally, I would like to ask him whether he regrets that he has supported, on behalf of the VVD, the offer of NATO membership to Ukraine and Georgia.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u6	In my view, this association agreement is totally and totally out of the question. First of all, I wanted to mark that. In the case of Ukraine, it is quite clear that there is no route towards NATO membership. This has also been confirmed by Ukraine. For the time being, there is no question of membership of NATO, and certainly not through the association agreements that are being ratified today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u7	We have to do justice to history. In 2008 it was decided in Bucharest that Georgia and Ukraine will one day become members of NATO. That is the offer of NATO membership to these two countries. Isn't that what the VVD supported? Or did I misunderstand?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u8	That's what came back. Since then, this has been discussed regularly with Ukraine, recently. It was even discussed at the summit in Wales. There is no NATO membership for Ukraine. Mr Van Bommel knows this as well as no other. He's been here since 2008.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mr President, I hear you sighing, but it is claimed that this has come back to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mr Van Bommel, we're doing two-way interruptions. You have colleagues. Then you must ask them to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u11	It has been discussed on several occasions, and Mr Van Bommel knows it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr Ten Broeke continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u13	Offering these cooperation agreements is, in my view, a very peaceful spread of freedom and stability. It is actually liberal democracy at work. Does this mean that we as a VVD always say yes to any ratification? The answer is no. I am therefore pleased that the PVV has rejected this ratification, because there is much going on with the three countries with which we enter into these cooperation agreements. The opinion of the VVD will always be based on whether we can get more or less stability and freedom back to Europe's borders. All three countries have in common that if they say yes to this free trade agreement, neighbour Russia will try to frame it in terms of a hostile act. The Russians see the presence of Russian-speaking minorities simply as an incentive to "help" those countries, resulting in bloody conflicts and annexation of territories. I refer to Transnistria in 1992, South Ossetia, Afghanistan in 2008 and the current conflict in eastern Ukraine. On the other hand, the EU has something on offer that can benefit everyone, regardless of language, ethnicity or political preference. I told you, this is liberal democracy at work. Where the Russians are offering a customs union as a sort of exclusive club, European trading conditions are identical to what Asian countries offer to the Caribbean, for example. The Russians are trying to glorify the membership of their customs union with politically controlled oil and gas prices, while our cooperation agreements mainly offer the relevant treaty partners many procedures, endless checklists and a lot of bureaucratic headaches.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u14	I appreciate what Mr Ten Broeke has said. The explanatory statement on the approval of the agreement also states that this agreement is a unique opportunity for Ukraine to work towards a future that is based on European values. Then it becomes painfully clear that a large part of the Ukrainian population, the Russian-speaking part, is being set aside. Isn't that what we're doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u15	I do not think that the Russian-speaking minority is being set aside in any way. In fact, the European Union has not called for it, but once again, including the successive governments of Ukraine, that account will be taken of those minorities, those linguistic communities. This was not least discussed with the previous regime of Yanukovych. It is well known that the PVV chooses very clearly the Russian view. The leader of the PVV takes advantage of every photo-opportunity to do mean business with Putin's friends. That is a difference of opinion. With this association agreement, we strongly support the successful values that the Netherlands and other countries in Europe have created in a liberal democracy: market economy, the rule of law and predictability for entrepreneurs and investors. The PVV does not choose to do so and thus denies those primordial-Dutch entrepreneurial values. I think that's a loss, but that's her choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u16	We do not deny these entrepreneurial values at all; we do agree with them. However, I do not get a satisfactory answer to the question what Mr Ten Broeke could offer the Russian-speaking part of Ukraine. That group isn't happy about that, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u17	For all Ukrainians, a cooperation agreement with the largest market in the world, the European market, can bring many benefits. Dressing up these free trade agreements with conditions in the area of the rule of law also provides Ukraine with the assurance that it can act in a fair manner. They can't count on that right now. That is why Europe's offer may be much more difficult, but in the end it is much more sustainable than Moscow's offer. We clearly choose the first. The PVV lets the offer slip in from Moscow. That's a denial of one's own worth. When it comes to Arab countries, we are holding this debate in a very different way with the PVV. I am therefore also surprised that Mr Bertema here has abandoned his own Dutch identity. I'll walk past the three countries. I'll start with Georgia. The question is whether the country now has a government that is less on a collision course with the Russians than the previous one. The country has reduced its defence expenditure somewhat; they were quite high. There are questions about the rule of law. With regard to time, I refer to the questions that Mr Servaes will be asking, because I know that he will give this a great deal of thought. To what extent does the Minister consider that Georgia is heading in the right direction in this area? I particularly ask for the opinion of the Dutch Government on how to deal with the opposition. I am concerned about the fact that the friendship relations with Georgia may be very good, but that the Dutch investment seems to be lagging behind similar areas. What will the Dutch Government do about it? We are now hanging somewhere around the 20th place. I think we can and should do better. Then I'll come to Moldova. I was in Moldova myself last weekend, as part of a fact-finding mission. All the dilemmas we have seen in the treatment of these treaties lie there. This is the south-east side of Europe, the Achilles heel of our stability and security, which the Russians are also looking at with an eager eye. They are doing everything they can to make use of their political influence. I'll start with a plus. Moldova has implemented surprisingly quickly the very modern requirements for external border surveillance. Some European countries can still suck on that. However, we have talked about this a little bit, because Moldova is still plagued by widespread corruption, in politics, in public administration and in the private sector. There's a lot of oligarchs out there pulling strings. There are also legitimate doubts about the judiciary. That is why it is so good, I repeat, to tell Mr Beertema that this kind of free trade agreement is being decorated with conditions for the rule of law. Dutch entrepreneurs who invest there are the number one investor who are also asking for this. The low point this weekend was for me to discover that in November 2014 nearly 1 billion disappeared from three Moldovan, at that time, state banks. At least that's what they're saying. These are system banks that also make the payments of pensions and social security and that have been sold to private parties. Rumor has it they're floating on Russian capital. All the experts I spoke to this weekend, both those associated with the opposition and those associated with the government, foreign diplomats, representatives of the OSCE and the IMF and the European Union ambassador, believe that an independent investigation, preferably with an independent prosecutor, should be carried out quickly and that the European Union should be closely involved. I think it is important for me to have a firm answer from the Minister to the question of what is being done about this. The Dutch central bank has taken the initiative to supervise the financial systems and banks in Moldova together with the Romanian central bank. That seems more than necessary to me. I'd like to hear what's going on. For us, the ratification of such a cooperation agreement is not an end in itself. It is a means that, if properly deployed, can act as a crowbar on Moldova's development towards a more transparent and liberal democracy. This offers not only more market, but also more security at our borders. If Moldova wants to have access to the European market with its products, such as apples, pears, nuts and nuts, there is also a great deal of piecemeal and great wines, these products will have to comply with our standards with this cooperation agreement. That is why we need to be able to set this standard. Think of the unbundling of governance and capital and of politics and business. I would like to hear from the Dutch Government what programmes are under way in this area and whether there are any results to be reported. Mr Bertema also spoke about it. On the contrary, I am in favour of programmes around the rule of law. I have also spoken to many Dutch entrepreneurs. We are the number one investor there. These entrepreneurs not only gave me a list of problems, but also kind of begged me to continue this ratification. For them, it offers the much needed stability and predictability to get a return on their investment. To what extent do we have sufficient vision of the budget support instrument used by the European Commission? Do we have enough control? With countries that have already become members, this is clearly not the case here, and we have set up a verification mechanism for this. I would like to know whether there can also be explicit control over budget support. In that case, we must think of OLAF control and ex post audit. Are there any benchmarks at all? In other words, can we do here what we are already doing with a number of other countries? Finally, I come to Ukraine. The road to an association agreement with Ukraine was not easy. If Yanukovych had not decided to reject the association agreement against the wishes and expectations of many, we could have stood here a year ago. Now we are discussing the ratification of this association agreement against a completely different background, that of a war that has killed 6,000 people, which has injured 50,000 people and has displaced 1 million people. I would like to say that this is a Russia-led war, preceded by the annexation of Crimea and six months of demonstrations at Maidan Square. It is estimated that hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians defyed both sniper fire and freezing cold because they felt that their government no longer served the interests of the people. The fact that we are discussing this ratification in the context of this war, of trashing borders and of destabilising international order and security means that my group will not only look at this agreement through the prisms of economics and trade, but also through those of stability and security. The Netherlands is the second investor in Ukraine and the deepening of the trade relationship is therefore clearly in our interest, but it has now become a matter of principle. This cooperation also has to do with the sovereignty and the right to self-determination of states. Many have already framed this association agreement as a choice for or against Europe, for or against the Eurasian Union. As far as I'm concerned, that's a fake choice. In our opinion, they should be able to do both. The cooperation agreement is about trade, transport and industry and not about the interests of Russian speakers or a portal for membership of NATO or the EU. In order to assess this properly, we need to support the reform programme here too. On CNN yesterday I saw an interview with the Ukrainian Finance Minister, Mrs Jaresko, who indicated what those reform plans meant. I was impressed by her words, but here it comes to action. Can the Minister also shed his light on this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u18	Mr. Chairman. Who can forget the images of Maidanplein at the end of 2013 and early 2014? Thousands of protesters who demonstrated their commitment to rapprochement with the European Union, for the right to determine their own destiny, for freedom. It was a people who responded to his leader who at the very last moment abandoned the signing of an association agreement between Ukraine and the European Union, under great pressure from Russia. Maidan began peacefully but ended up in a battle, a battle for which Russia soon managed to identify the culprit: the West, the European Union, had caused this. Mr Ten Broeke has just rightly said that some parties in this Chamber are all too happy to raise the white flag on these accusations. And that was not the end of it as far as Russia is concerned. Putin wasn't ready. Crimea had yet to be annexed, East Ukraine had yet to be dislocated. And that too will be the fault of some parties of the European Union, as a result of so-called entrapment, but that is, of course, nonsense. This entrapment, the European Union that would have deliberately pricked the Russian bear with a stick by calling in countries, by extending NATO, by concluding association agreements, is therefore not the right reading. Putin didn't think Ukraine was a country. He considers the break-up of the Soviet Union to be the greatest tragedy of this century. So Europe has not pricked anyone, but Europe has been asked to cooperate, through Ukraine, through Moldova and through Georgia, countries that leap through dozens of hoops, who have to carry out far-reaching reforms that are often extremely painful for their people and their economies and who voluntarily do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u19	There is no misunderstanding or discussion about the voluntary nature of these countries' wish to join. Is it not true, however, that at the end of the Cold War it was stated and promised that the European Union and NATO would not move further east?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u20	I am pleased that Mr Van Bommel is now admitting that Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova's desire to conclude these agreements is entirely voluntary and therefore they are in their right to do so, and that it is not therefore the result of a rope draw competition between the European Union and Russia, as he has said before. There is no evidence of the agreement or indeed the so-called agreement to which Mr Van Bommel refers; there is no written agreement in which NATO indicates or promises not to expand after the Cold War. In fact, Mr Putin, the President of Russia at the time, at the beginning of the year 2000, I did not say the exact year at a large NATO meeting in Portugal that, as far as he was concerned, Ukraine could simply join NATO; that was not a problem at all. So it is Mr Putin who has changed his mind here and there is no such agreement, the so-called agreement that Mr Van Bommel is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u21	This is indeed the case with the reunification of Germany. That's when those words were spoken. That's all documented. We do not need to debate this today, because it is all in the annals of history. The point is that, apart from the voluntary decision-making process of the states that are now on the threshold of concluding this association agreement, there is also the European interest and the Dutch interest. This means, for example, stability in this region. If we find that this step does not serve stability, but increases tension in these countries around Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia, then we are acting contrary to our own interests of stability at our own European border.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u22	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u23	Let me give one example as a question to Mr Sjoerdsma. We have been to work in Moldova. There are two regions with a preference for an association with Russia, Gagauzia and Transnistria.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u24	When an association agreement is concluded, it shall not be concluded with people with different orientations. Do we not increase the gap between these populations and the rest of the population in Moldova, and do we not increase the tension in the country? An association agreement can be an excuse for increasing tension and a possible conflict as we now have in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u25	Mr Van Bommel mentions a lot of things and he concludes with a specific question, to which I will also answer. However, I would also like to comment on the first part of his speech, namely that we should look only at stability here, and that we should therefore ignore the voluntary desire of these countries to move in a democratic direction towards a European rule of law with European values. This surprises me because I have also heard Mr Van Bommel distance himself from Mr Zijlstra's speech, who just said: we must cherish the stable autocratic regimes, because this stability is in our interest, and we should look away from human rights and democratic shortcomings. I do not understand why Mr Van Bommel would argue that with regard to Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine. Then I come to his reference to Moldova.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u26	Mr Ten Broeke, I see that you wish to interrupt, but Mr Sjoerdsma first answers Mr Van Bommel's question. Then you can ask a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u27	I feel that Mr Ten Broeke wishes to intervene on the basis of a personal fact, but Mr Zijlstra is not in the Chamber. Mr Van Bommel referred to the trip to Moldova that we made with the committee. He wondered whether the association agreement did not create more tension for the Gagauzia and Transnistria states. Mr Van Bommel should look at the facts. Take, for example, visa liberalisation, which Moldova is already allowed to use. This led to more requests for the Moldovan passport in Transnistria. These people feel more related, not only in a formal sense, but also in an informal sense, to their homeland and thus less to the sphere of influence dominated by Russia. That is why I say to Mr Van Bommel: it is important that the benefits of not only the association agreement, but also the visa liberalisation can end up with those states. I share that view, but I do not share the view that it leads to increasing tension. I will continue my speech. In fact, I was about to confess colour in relation to these association agreements. I wanted to say that my group is in favour of these association agreements because they are not against anything but for something. They are in favour of free trade, democratisation and the promotion of the rule of law. We conclude these agreements in order to strengthen the international legal order and stimulate economies. That is the approach of the Eastern Partnership, and that is what my group is in favour of. However, we also ask for a finger on the wrist. I will certainly ask a number of questions about that. First of all, I would like to make a point that I mentioned during the interrupting debate with Mr Van Bommel. Russia does not have the right to restrict sovereign decisions of countries on their relationship with the European Union. Those countries are completely free, and they must also be free, to choose their own destiny and to determine their own values. The D66 line is therefore: no acceleration because of Russia and no delay because of Russia. I come to the individual countries and, first of all, to Moldova. The agreement applies to the whole country, but the application in Transnistria is only possible if Moldova exercises effective control over Transnistria. How exactly does the cabinet see that? When can we say: Moldova currently has irreversible authority over Transnistria? There are also other problems in Moldova, colleagues, such as the extensive problems of corruption in both the political authorities and in the private sphere. Moldova ranks 103 in the 2014 corruption perception index. There are problems with freedom of the press, Roma and IBT people are being disadvantaged and there are doubts about justice. I therefore also ask the Minister what possibilities he sees for further strengthening aid from the Netherlands and the European Union to address these problems. I come to the suspensive clauses relating to human rights in the Convention. It is clear that these association agreements are never actually suspended. This means, however, that serious political dialogue is also needed on the problems, and I am concerned about that. This applies not only to the agreement with Moldova, but also to all association agreements and perhaps also to the relationship that the European Union has with all the neighbouring countries. There is often a lack of real political dialogue. It is written that we have to carry it out and we have it at official level perhaps once a year, but I would like this minister and this cabinet within the European Union to engage in a genuine mutual dialogue with all three countries. I'm coming to Georgia. After the war in 2008, Abkhazia and South Ossetia, of course supported by Russia, declared themselves independent. Yet during our visit last year we saw a very united country, a country in which the opposition and the coalition agreed on the approach to the European Union and NATO. I have rarely seen a country where opposition and coalition differed as little as Georgia. Does the Minister see opportunities for new developments in both states, Abkhazia and South Ossetia? Could there perhaps be positive developments there in the near future? I would like to make the same comments as the previous speakers on Georgian relations with the opposition and progress on the rule of law development. I would like the Minister to go into that more closely. Finally, I come to Ukraine. The agreement had so many consequences and its application was postponed. That was a confidence-building measure at the time towards Russia of Ukraine itself, but it should not benefit. So it's going to be 1 January 2016, but I'm asking the cabinet: will it really be 1 January 2016? The cabinet says that Russia does not take trade measures against Ukraine, but trade has fallen significantly in 2014. Then why is that? Is this because of the internal unrest or are there policies behind it from Russia? The cabinet also says that in future it expects little impact on trade between Russia and Ukraine. What is this trust based on? In the letter, the cabinet mainly addresses trade-related concerns, which might be negligible. But, of course, it is not just a question of trade-related objections; it is primarily a question of geopolitics. What does the government expect of the geopolitical component when these association agreements enter into force? This question relates to the three countries that are being discussed today. What can Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine expect? In what way is the European Union prepared for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u28	I deliberately chose not to interrupt Mr Sjoerdsma's speech, but he referred to the words of my group chairman Mr Zijlstra. He did not do that in a debate with me, but in an interrupting debate with Mr Van Bommel. Mr Sjoerdsma has already shown in tweets that he has not taken note of the views of my group chairman. Now he also shows that he does not understand these views. I challenge Mr Sjoerdsma to simply look for the debate with the VVD in another debate, if he has the guts to do so. That's the royal road. I would therefore like to say that I see him in the order of business.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u29	I look forward to that arrangement of work. Mr Ten Broeke has rarely challenged me to such an enthusiastic and energetic debate. I therefore assume that the challenge, the request for a debate, comes from the VVD. After all, it is the VVD that believes that the coalition agreement should be amended. It is the VVD that believes that foreign policy should become more realistic. I really do not know, even after reading Mr Zijlstra's 5,000-word article, what exactly is meant by'realistic'. I can recommend his party a little more realism. I'd like to do that in a debate. In my view, we are still having an arrangement of work today. I look forward to it!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u30	It seems very strange to me to apply for a debate with yourself. We always make the call for a more realistic foreign policy. We'll do the same. If Mr Sjoerdsma wants a debate on this, we are available at any time, in any room, anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u31	Apparently it has to be done in the old-fashioned way, we have to duel before Mr Ten Broeke wants to debate it. But if he wants to, there's only one thing I can say: I'm looking forward to. We shall see who is ultimately requesting this debate in the course of the work, Mr Ten Broeke or I. However, I suspect it will be him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u32	We'll wait and see. However, we are now moving on to the association agreements. I call Mr Servaes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u33	Mr. Chairman. I almost feel like asking for a debate now, which, of course, I would like to take part in myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u34	But I'm gonna stop you from doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u35	Unfortunately, we are going to try to manage this debate first. Mr. Chairman. Exactly a year ago, in April 2014, I was in Kiev. I had a day full of discussions with politicians, NGOs and others, to my frustration in a hotel room without windows. You literally felt excluded from what really happened in Kiev. Only in the evening we walked with a group of people across the Maidanplein. Everything was still there: the stage, the flags, the barricades and the army tents in which the perseverances were hiding. Only the demonstrators, who had taken and defended the square in large numbers at the end of February and for some with a fatal outcome, had left. The square had won from the president, but joy was long gone at that time. There was uncertainty, nervousness and frustration. Crimea was annexed the month before and during our visit there were reports from the east of the country, where government buildings and police stations were occupied by separatists. The paramilitaries we spoke to that evening in the square, they weren't all fresh types, they knew for sure: within a few days or maybe weeks, the Russians would try to take Kiev as well. Fortunately it didn't come to that, but many other scenarios have come to fruition. Other horrible scenarios as well; scenarios that none of us thought possible a year ago. I am thinking in particular of this one terrible event last summer, which caused so much suffering for the Netherlands and for many Dutch people. This was the reason for the cabinet to speak of a water separation moment in the relationship with the Russian Federation, and that is right. While today the question arises as to whether this Chamber can agree to the ratification of three association agreements and corresponding free trade agreements, of course we all know the story behind these agreements. Today, in essence, it is the sovereign right of countries to decide freely which future they choose. The same applies to the sovereign right to conclude treaties with other countries or with international organisations. We understand and respect Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova's choice to join the EU in political and economic terms through the agreements. The Labour Party welcomes their choice from the conviction that deepening cooperation in the short term, but also in the longer term, will increase political stability, security and trade and thus ensure a safer and more prosperous Europe. We also think it is right that this ratification should take place relatively quickly, at least for Dutch concepts, and in any case can be concluded before the Eastern Partnership Summit in Riga in late May. A number of speakers have already said what the association agreement is, but also what it is not. In any case, it is not a necessary portal for membership of the European Union. Although we believe that each European country has the full right to apply for membership of the EU on the basis of the Treaty, the Labour Party shares the view of the Cabinet that a membership perspective is not currently at issue. Having said that, it is good to emphasise that ratification does not mark the end of a process, but rather the beginning of enhanced cooperation and of a reform process that is still in full swing in the three countries. The agreements set out some fundamental European standards and values, such as human rights, freedom, peace, democracy and the rule of law. We also want the association agreements to be used explicitly to raise these important issues in the countries concerned. I am thinking, for example, of the selective case law, which unfortunately still seems to exist in Georgia. A "winner takes it all" mentality characterizes the country and although we see an improvement, we still have concerns about it. I am also thinking of the language issues to which other colleagues referred in relation to the protection of minority rights. We have seen in Ukraine that the recognition of the Russian language has been temporarily suspended. Luckily, that recovered later. We are also thinking about the way elections are organised. Moldova was the last country to have successful elections, but some critical comments have been made by international observers. What monitoring mechanisms does the European Union have, following ratification of the treaties, so that we can continue to monitor developments in the three countries closely? I have a specific question about Georgia, namely the so-called alliance and integration treaties recently concluded by the Russian Federation with the self-explained independent regions of South Ossetia and, previously, Abkhazia. Both the European Union and the United States called this a further violation of Georgian sovereignty and territorial integrity. A Georgian delegation that visited the House of Representatives last week spoke in this connection of a "creeping annexation." I think this is a well-chosen term. Does the government share that qualification? If so, is it not time, if we are witnessing a new annexation, for a stronger EU response than we have seen so far? Another development we are seeing in both Georgia and Moldova is that Russian funding of NGOs is increasing. The aim seems to be to work on minorities and further undermine the unity of the states. Mr Van Bommel already referred to the region of Gagauzia which we visited last year. Exactly that seems to happen there. How does the government view this trend and how does the Netherlands and the European Union deal with it? This puts us in a dilemma. On the one hand, we want to curb this kind of undermining activity and, at the same time, we must, of course, avoid doing exactly what Russia is doing, namely banning the funding of NGOs under a kind of European variant of the Foreign Agents Registration Act. That is indeed a dilemma, but one that does require an answer. Finally, I would like to inform you what is exactly the perspective for Georgia at the moment when it comes to visa liberalisation. The delegation also drew attention to this last week. Perhaps even more than by concluding agreements, this type of measure offers the opportunity to travel freely, a tangible advantage for the inhabitants of a country. Only then will they know what it is to maintain a special relationship with the European Union. What is the Commission's and the Cabinet's assessment of the progress recently made, in particular in Georgia? Is it realistic that steps are being taken at the forthcoming summit, or is Riga coming too soon in this respect? The ratification of these agreements is certainly not an end to this, but it is an important moment, for us, for the European Union but, of course, especially for the three countries whose ambassadors are present in this Chamber today. They hope that one day their countries will be able to join the European Union. I said something about this earlier in my speech. I like to conclude with the words of Mustafa Nayyem, who spoke here in the Netherlands last year. Mustafa Nayyem is the one who with a first post on Facebook immediately after the announcement that President Yanukovych would not sign the association agreements called his friends to come to Maidan. His friends called on their friends again and thus this protest grew to increasing proportions. When I asked him last year whether he hoped that one day his country would join the European Union, he said to me: "I hope that my country will become a modern country, a free country, a country that upholds European values and one day the European Union will come to us and ask us: can we belong to you?'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u36	A short question after these warm ideological words, which bear witness to cosmopolism, international solidarity and so on. I have not heard a word about solidarity with what was once your own electorate, the Dutch people here who are no longer able to find work because they are forced into the labour market thanks to your ideologically invested free travel. How do you feel about that now? It is all very nice, but you also have a responsibility here to your own voters. Say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u37	I am pleased that Mr Beertema describes international solidarity as a good thing. It is one of the core values of social democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u38	Those are your core values, not mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u39	A question is being asked and Mr Servaes answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u40	I think I heard the word 'beautiful' from Mr Beertema three times, so I welcome that. The debate on workers' freedom in the European internal market is an important issue. This brings benefits and there are also comments about it. Mr Beertema knows that this is an incredibly important subject for PvdA members of this Chamber, also in the Cabinet, and I would like to draw your attention to the initiatives taken by Minister Asscher in this area. But I believe it is not the subject we are discussing today. I do not believe that it is part of the association agreements that free movement is being established for workers with these three countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u41	What are these association agreements, which could perhaps be a portal for further cooperation and integration, even if this has not been said, concrete for those Dutch workers here in the lower floor of the wage building?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u42	I will answer that in two ways. First of all, there are economic benefits. The increased trade opportunities with these countries, Mr Ten Broeke, have talked extensively about this, and are doing work for everyone, including people here in the Netherlands. But maybe the next thing is even more important. This is a study published yesterday by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. The question was asked: what is the concern of the Dutch? One was the issue of security at the borders of Europe. It was about the South, about what we see in the Middle East and in North Africa. But it was certainly also about the East, the fear of what is happening there and Russia's increased pressure. I have spoken about stability, security and European values. A lot of Dutch people are very worried about these kinds of subjects. It is precisely this type of subject that I stand before in this debate today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u43	Mr. Chairman. The EU's association agreements with Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine are for approval. Let me say right at the start of this debate that the CDA fully supports the principles and objectives of the Eastern Partnership, including the instrument of the association agreements. After all, free trade but also values such as democracy and the rule of law are very important. If countries choose to join and take over, it can contribute to the prosperity and stability of these countries, as well as to the regions in which they are located. These are extremely important regions for Europe. However, geopolitical conditions have changed considerably since the establishment of the Eastern Partnership. Russia now has a very different perception of the EU neighbourhood policy than the EU and the countries targeted by the Eastern Partnership. Russia sees the association agreements as the EU's gateway to membership and sees EU membership as a gateway to NATO enlargement. It sees these association agreements as a threatening expansion of the EU's sphere of influence, at the expense of its own sphere of influence. Unlike the European Union, President Putin engages in this geopolitical struggle with methods such as blackmail, propaganda and deception, even up to war. In 2008, the tanks rolled into Georgia. In 2013, green males appeared on Crimea. Afterwards, the hybrid warfare in eastern Ukraine followed. Now we have a major crisis in the middle of Europe and a crisis in the relationship between the West and Russia. In Georgia, the South Ossetia region has de facto separated and joined Russia. Moldova is threatening to be next on Putin's chessboard, possibly as a springboard to the Balkans. I mentioned it earlier in the debate: a recent report by the Foreign Affairs Committee of the British House of Lords was very critical of the European Union's position. The Committee stated that the European Union has fallen sleepwalking into the Ukrainian marsh, in particular due to a manifest lack of analytical capacity and political insight. In 2013, there were signs that Russia would not accept the association agreement with Ukraine. The Kremlin warned of a catastrophe, of political and social unrest and of separatist movements. It indicated that Ukraine's independence as a state could not be guaranteed. We know what happened after that. Mr Sjoerdsma had just made a whole speech in which he said: none of this can be true, but these arguments do not apply. But the question is, of course, what lessons we are prepared to draw on the basis of what has happened over the past period. What lesson is the cabinet prepared to draw? In the written reply sent to the Chamber, the cabinet or minister seemed rather naive when it came to the legislative proposals for the association agreements. The cabinet did not discuss the internal political situation in Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova until the Council of State criticized it and the relationship with Russia. Why did the Minister disregard geopolitics? These association agreements are geopolitical. That is not up to us; Putin determines that. Speaking in defense terms, "the enemy has a vote."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u44	Mr Knops says that we must learn lessons. He is very curious about the lessons the cabinet is going to draw, but what lessons does the CDA draw?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u45	In previous debates, I have already pointed out to Mr Sjoerdsma that, contrary to what he says, namely that Europe has nothing to blame and that all the blame lies with the Russians, let us try to look at this from the other side too: that the way in which Europe has been focused on enlargement in recent years, from the idea that all these countries would like to join us, which could be a strengthening of Europe, can be seen differently by the other side. Of course, we can place Russia as an enemy. There are also problems with Russia at the moment, but in the end Russia is and will remain no matter how you turn it or turn it into a neighbour of Europe. It is precisely in Europe's interest to take account of the views that also exist in Russia on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u46	I do my best to translate Mr Knops' words into a lesson. Do I understand him correctly when I say that as a European Union we must take account of our neighbours, in this case Russia, and that in practice this means that we must abandon our principles when it comes to association agreements, accession processes and so on? In the context of the good neighbourly relations that Mr Knops has advocated with Russia, should we make some progress on how the European Union works and how we protect our values?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u47	That's interesting. Perhaps I should still request a debate on Mr Zijlstra's statement, because we will always have to do something about it, I say to Mr Sjoerdsma, also on this dossier. I am not saying that these are all facts, but the continuous image of NATO being extended, that the borders would be moved forward, Mr van Bommel has just rightly said that expectations have been raised in Europe that have become fluid, mobile in the last period have led to reactions in Russia. You will always have to take that into account because no one, certainly not us, has any interest in a kind of permanent crisis at their borders. In the end, you'll always have to take that into account. Does this mean that these association agreements should not be concluded? No, it doesn't mean that, but I think you should take a serious look at that. It is not entirely black and white, I say towards Mr Sjoerdsma. The world's a little more complicated than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u48	Mr Knops says that we have to make choices, that we have to learn lessons, that we also have to look very critically at ourselves. That's all beautiful. At your service. Then we're gonna slide already. It's all not black and white, but it's very simple. At some point you offer a free trade agreement, you offer a cooperation agreement. It's been negotiated for years. By the end of 2013, Yanukovych had the choice, the Ukrainian regime had the choice to say yes or no. After a long negotiation, it was decided not to do it. Indeed, this led to a strong reaction in Ukraine. Is the CDA now saying that we should not have presented this at the time because we have seen since then that Putin has done land cock?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u49	Mr Ten Broeke mentions the moment of 2013 but of course it played much earlier. The discussion and the constructive tension between Russia and Europe took place much earlier. I would argue that instead of saying that we have done nothing wrong at all and that the Russians are the great enemy, we should also do self-reflection. Why? Because we in Europe, taking Greece's example, perhaps a slightly different chapter, are still faced with the wrong choices from the past that bring Europe almost to the brink of collapse. It is therefore very important to look in the mirror ourselves every time things like this happen, whether we have done the right things and whether we are ultimately contributing to it. That is the most important thing, and we agree on this very quickly, although perhaps less with Mr Sjoerdsma that we have a stable situation in Europe in the long term. That is the question that should and should be asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u50	It's always good to do self-reflection. I'm also inviting the CDA to join in. If you put the CDA programs of the past few years side by side, then you can see how they looked towards the east and had special partnerships for everyone on offer.I think it would be good if that self-reflection took place with everyone. However, it is not only about self-reflection, but also about a good self-analysis with whom you are dealing. In this respect, I commend Mr Zijlstra's article to everyone, because he makes a very fine distinction between three categories of opponents we are dealing with. Against this background, I would ask Mr Knops once again. A cooperation agreement will enable us to join a larger market, on our terms and on our principles. It's good for our businesses. At the same time, I see that the CDA wants to do NATO exercises everywhere and show muscle. How can this cooperation agreement lead to a great deal of self-reflection while I hear Mr Knops speak firm military language in all the other debates? How can you connect these two things, Mr Knops?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u51	I don't see that contradiction. I think you should assess every agreement on its merits, but the conclusion of such an association agreement cannot be without consequences for Europe's own foreign security policy stance. We can't do that without each other. We cannot deny that the conclusion of this agreement has caused a great deal of tension and may lead to further tensions. That is no reason to vote against this agreement, I repeat. Europe must rethink its position vis-à-vis its neighbours. The same applies to NATO, but let me focus here on Europe. In fact, I believe that NATO is immediately the strong power, while Europe could have real added value in terms of economic relations, but also in terms of a common foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u52	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u53	We were still opposed to an association agreement with Ukraine in 2013. I have already said that the situation has changed dramatically. The Kremlin has fulfilled its threats and Crimea has been conquered and annexed. The same is happening now with East Ukraine. The question is where Putin's tanks will stop, where Novo Russia will stop. In Kiev there is now a government that has been democratically elected. The parliamentary elections were fair. Political pluralism has improved, as has public transparency. The government headed by President Poroshenko is pursuing far-reaching reforms, also on the basis of the terms of the IMF. At the same time, I would like to say that between 1994 and 2007, Ukraine had eight IMF programmes that did not produce any results. The circumstances are difficult and the country is still very corrupt. It is therefore unclear whether Ukraine is in a position to adopt the acquis. No assessment has been carried out and there are elements of the association agreement that seem quite provocative, such as harmonisation on foreign and security issues and deeper integration of Ukraine into the European area of security. There is no possibility of splitting up the association agreement and the free trade agreement, and the EU currently has so much regret to note that it is not a clear Russia strategy. I ask the Minister about the 1.8 billion loan granted to Ukraine. How is it monitored that this loan is repaid and that steps are taken forward? How is the finger held on the wrist? Then I'll come to Moldova. In Moldova there is a narrow political majority in favour of the association agreement. The Socialists and Communists are pro-Moscow and Russia is already blocking the import of fruit and wine. Will the gas tap close soon? Transnistria is likely to join Russia. Putin could also stir up separatism in Gagauzia. Please respond to these points. The CDA is critical, but not against these association agreements. They can lead to more prosperity, more rule of law and more democracy. Russia does not have a veto on this, but it can do a lot of damage. The EU must stop being naive and Europe must be prepared for a firm response from Moscow. Whoever says "A" has to say "B." The signing of these agreements can only lead to greater commitment in the area of a common security and defence policy. Does the Minister share this view? In the end, we will have to come to a political comparison with the Russians. This is also in the spirit of neighbourhood policy, which means that the EU must be prepared to adapt association agreements should it contribute to a solution to de-escalation with Russia. It should also be made clear that these association agreements are not a gateway to EU membership. I'd like an explicit commitment from the Minister. Finally. The CDA has concerns regarding ensuring fair competition as a result of the Treaty with Ukraine. Ukrainian products will have free access to the European market, but European products will not have free access to the Ukrainian market until the entry into force of the free trade agreements in 2016. The CDA calls for monitoring and evaluation of the impact of the Convention, in particular on the fair playing field on the agricultural market. Why is the government not prepared to argue in favour of increasing controls on agricultural products, in particular by customs and national inspection services?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u54	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I would like to suspend the sitting for a few minutes and ask the spokesmen to come and see me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u55	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for the first-term input and for the interest in this debate, which is taking place at a crucial moment, a few weeks before the Eastern Partnership Summit. I would first like to make a few general comments on the present decision and the association agreement. I would then like to make a few comments relating to geopolitics, since this aspect has been raised from various groups. Then I would like to address a number of criticisms of the way reforms are taking place, such as visa liberalisation and funding. Finally, I would like to make a few comments on each of the three countries. It is really important that we talk today about political association and economic integration between the EU and these three countries to the east of the Union. I am grateful for the fact that this debate could quickly be scheduled. As is well known, the government is committed to completing the ratification process for the forthcoming Eastern Partnership Summit. The expectations of these countries are high. We have also been negotiating for a long time since 2010. Many countries, in fact most countries, are now in the process of ratification. It is also an important message towards Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine. They're tailor-made matches. As I said, negotiations have been ongoing since 2010. They are legally binding and politically binding. It's a contract. Deep elements of trade are involved. It is also about dialogue, values, the well-known standard political clauses and cooperation in international fora. So these are very important agreements. Of course, the three countries themselves attach great importance to the association agreements they have concluded with the Union. They have even explained them to guide their country's orientation. That's what's so important. Reforms are often very difficult, because these countries, which have all been part of the Soviet Union in the past, have such a complicated history. The transformation towards stability of social markets, economy and democracy is therefore of great importance, especially for the citizens themselves but also for the Netherlands. A large number of examples have been mentioned on this point. We are big investors in those countries; sometimes we are the biggest investor and sometimes the second. This also creates work, income and tax revenues. However, the issue of stability is also essential. The agreements are not easy for the countries concerned. The transformation is very complicated. This is important, because I think those countries are working very hard on this. A lot has been learned from the instruments about how to do this. The development of the Union's neighbouring countries into stable and prosperous countries with which it is doing good is therefore also in our interest. They are not trade agreements in the classical sense of the word. They are not limited to providing market access and reducing tariffs. They go much further in the approximation, including standards and standards. That's important. I will come back to the question of agriculture in response to Mr Knops' questions. It is therefore a question of adopting the acquis. These are proposals that these countries themselves have put forward. It is a sovereign right of a country to decide on the form of relations; I shall come back to that later. It is also important for the EU to say that it is going to underline those close links and help in the transformation processes, which are so complicated for those populations. This certainly serves a direct European interest, as does the interest of our citizens. The content of the association agreements has been negotiated for years. They didn't come up with ice in one night. So the rounding of it didn't come out of the sky. We have talked about this repeatedly in the past. Nor has it always been successful. There are countries that have chosen not to belong. In that sense, therefore, there has been no compulsion. As is well known, Armenia, which was just as advanced in the negotiations on an association agreement as Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine, has stopped negotiations at a late stage. The EU regrets this, but respects this choice, which was, moreover, motivated by the necessary Russian pressure. The signing of the association agreements has been preceded by a great deal of progress. I have thought about this in the explanatory statement, including with regard to Ukraine, and I will come back to that later, because some questions have been asked. The decision of the then President Yanukovych not to sign the agreement has, as you know, led to a large-scale protest and has initiated his resignation. The presidential and parliamentary elections led to a new government led by President Poroshenko. On the contrary, that government is very focused on these association agreements. A completely democratic and sovereign decision is therefore the essence of this. Only after it has taken office have the economic parts of the agreement, which form an integral part of the whole, been signed. This happened in June 2014. I may have to say something about these reforms. For the Netherlands, it is important that the potential of the association agreements should now be maximised. This means that implementation is paramount. In fact, fundamental reforms are laid down in the agreements. The future development of the countries will benefit from their vigorous implementation. This will not only be supported by the European Union, but will also be monitored. I believe that is what was asked for. We also do this bilaterally here and there, for example in the Matra-East programmes. I would like to make a few brief comments on the geopolitical aspects. I think that's important. Much has been said about Russia in relation to these agreements, about the geopolitical consequences and about Russia's concerns about possible consequences for the Russian economy. I really believe that abandoning an association agreement on the grounds that Russia should not be ignored would not at all contribute to reducing tensions in the region. I honestly think the opposite would be the case. Such a course of action would, moreover, only confirm Russia's commitment to a post-Soviet sphere of influence, in which Russia's neighbours may exercise limited sovereignty. So I think this would be more destabilizing than stabilising. It would therefore be inappropriate to consider Russian threats in the analysis of whether or not an association agreement with a sovereign State is desirable. Let me say first of all that neither Brussels nor Moscow has any control over the relations which these countries wish to establish with their neighbours. I think it's important to mark that point. These three countries have themselves chosen to enter into an association agreement with the Union, for an agreement that is so far-reaching. Some countries have chosen not to. No one should force these countries to enter into or not enter into this association.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u56	The Minister didn't look at me when he just said these words, so I don't think he addressed them explicitly, given my input in the first term. However, I would like to ask him the following. My group also relies on the recognition of the full sovereignty of these countries. They can choose which association they want to enter into. Nevertheless, in Europe and in the Netherlands, consideration must be given to what an association with Europe means for tensions in these countries themselves. Such internal tensions, if they escalate, will also have an impact on relations with Europe. We've seen that happen in Ukraine. So I will leave Russia out of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u57	Yes, of course there is also thought about whether this geopolitics is important. That is why these agreements are being concluded. I think they are stabilising rather than destabilising. You cannot accept the wishes of a people who want to join the European Union and think that this will put the tensions behind us. However, I would also like to point out that, as far as the European Union is concerned, there is no tension here with the Russian Federation. Let me give you an example of the relationship with the Eurasian Economic Union. We are very willing to discuss this with Russia. That is what has happened in Ukraine. There was tension, too; everyone knows that. Gas also plays a role in this. The European Commission is also involved in this. We are therefore not blind, nor are we blind to the interests of the Russian Federation. Nor are we blind to the interests of exports to Russia. I will come back to the question of how you could actually absorb and improve that. There is an open hand; let there be no misunderstanding about that. However, this is something other than making this important form of stabilisation subject to the Russian Federation's constant desire to create a geopolitical sphere of influence. In addition, the "possibility makes the thief" play a bit of a role.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u58	The SP looks not so much at how Russia is in this, but at how the populations of these countries themselves are in it. Does the Minister at least recognise that there is a division in those societies of Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova itself about the desired orientation? That is a problem that we in Europe must find a solution to when we enter into this association. It is possible to talk about Moldova and Transnistria and only later to declare an association agreement applicable to the inhabitants of Transnistria, but the fact is that the orientation is different there. It will not change if we enter into these association agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u59	Of course, there are different views, including in those countries, on these association agreements. That makes sense. As is the case here in Parliament, this will also be expressed in various forms. The most important thing is that this is as democratic as possible, and it has also been discussed democratically in all these countries. There are majorities and there are minorities. It has not been a dictation of a majority. It is clear that the vast majority of the population have opted for a pro-European orientation. It is now important to help the country to find a way out of this. That, of course, is not all that has been said. Of course, we will talk about the implementation of the Minsk II agreement. It is also up to the Ukrainian Government to ensure good legislation in the area of decentralisation and demands regarding new elections. We know that there is a large majority in favour of Georgia, and there is no doubt about that. We know that two parts of Georgia were simply stolen by Russia. It has even been achieved to speak before a summit about an agreement on 'our sovereignty'. Then Europe's answer cannot be 'let alone the association agreement'. We are very willing to discuss this with the Moldovan Foreign Minister, two weeks ago, to see if a lever is possible. Maybe we can do it in Transnistria. So we are already discussing how this agreement can apply to the whole country, with, of course, preferably the consent of the people there and not necessarily of the warlords or others who have seized power there. I would like to answer a few questions about monitoring and the various mechanisms. By entering into an association agreement with the European Union, the three countries committed themselves to a far-reaching political and trade agenda. The Association Agreement provides a framework for this. Compliance with the agreements can be monitored through Association Councils and Committees. I shall come back later to the way in which this is done in practice in the different countries. In this sense, unlike a situation where you do not have such an agreement, it offers much better leads to the dialogue. You can say it's bureaucracy. Not every meeting is a bureaucracy. The same applies to the sitting we are holding today. Sometimes you have to look very closely with verification mechanisms. There is a Trade Committee with a Sustainable Trade Sub-Committee. There is also a Subcommittee on Human Rights. Furthermore, the costs have been asked for. The European Union's support for these three countries is aimed at promoting reform. The reform agenda is partly contained in the agreement, I say to Mr Beertema. Mind you, the agreement itself has no separate financial implications. Support comes from the EU budget. You can either agree with that or you can't. We have the right to say: we do not want that, because we want to leave the European Union anyway. But that is what it is, and it is not dealt with separately in this association agreement. There are also different amounts of aid to Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova. It is even more complicated because other loans are also involved, for example from the IMF and the European Investment Bank. Preventing and combating corruption is an important element in the association agreements. Ukraine has a huge path to go. The first person to acknowledge this is the Ukrainian government itself. They are countries that have for years been under the yoke of a dictatorship wrong and have slowly but surely found their own role. They have had democratic elections and are also faced with destabilization at the eastern borders. Stand on it! You'll just have to go through the field of anti-corruption. Take the oligarchs. This is a major risk to Ukraine's stabilisation, economic growth and potential. That is precisely why such an association agreement is important. Parliament has adopted five important anti-corruption laws. They have to do with actual control of that. There's also a national anti-corruption agency in there. A number of senior officials have been dismissed for suspected corruption. The Chamber was able to see that last week. That was a massive intervention by the Ukrainian government, precisely because of the fact that one of the oligarchs had their own army there. Is that what we're dealing with? No, but the essence is precisely the perspective of association with Europe. This is not about membership, we know the European treaties in this area, but about an in-depth association agreement. A recent practical example is the resignation of Kololojski, the governor of the Dniepropetrovsk region. Visa liberalisation is different from letting everyone in here. In principle, all countries in the Eastern Partnership have a long-term perspective on visa liberalisation. This also applies to other countries in the world. All decisions on visa facilitation or liberalisation shall be taken on the basis of a qualified majority. This is done in response to a number of strict requirements for document security, illegal immigration including readmission and readmission, but also in the area of anti-corruption and the rule of law. I say once again that if you want this to happen in a way that is in the interests of the Netherlands and of European countries, you better have such an agreement rather than no agreement. We have been asked about the visa freedom of Georgia and Ukraine. It is independent of these agreements and is not part of them. The countries are on a path. The second phase has now entered. Georgia and Ukraine will have to meet all the strict conditions of the visa liberalisation action plan. In addition, there should be no unacceptable risks in the areas of illegal migration, national security and public order. There is a little more to be said, but I say this to those who have noticed that there are risks. You can reduce those risks through this agreement. What is the state of the reform process in Ukraine? I have already said something about this. 80 new laws have been passed by parliament. It is now, of course, a question of implementing it. This also has to do with a major importance for the peace process in Ukraine as regards the approach through the anti-corruption package, through the creation of national anti-corruption agencies and through public finance management. These are all kinds of technical elements that make it possible to reduce the power of those who want to commit corruption. You're supposed to support those kind of alliances. I think it is in the interests of, for example, Dutch trade and investment if you would look at enlightened self-interest on this point. Questions have been asked about the findings of Transparency International and Freedom House. The reports of these organisations are, I think, very important independent gauges of the degree of corruption and democratic freedoms. It contains low scores from a number of countries, including Ukraine. Freedom House concludes in its 2015 report "There are always two sides to the point that the necessary progress has been made by improving political pluralism, exactly what the people in Maidan wanted, by the recently held parliamentary elections and by the improved transparency of the government after the departure of former leader Yanukovych. I shall now turn to the questions that have been asked specifically about the three countries. I had already started answering questions about Ukraine. I thought Mr Beertema asked about the role of oligarchs in the media. I believe that this requires a number of steps that are recognised and considered important by the Ukrainian Government. The reform process, which is enshrined in the Association Agreement, can help in this. Ukraine is already taking steps to restrict the power of oligarchs, including a new company law restricting their economic power, including in the media. Transparency and media ownership are also top priorities of civil society in Ukraine. That's why it's good to support that. With political and financial support from the European Union, but also through our Matra programmes, for example, we are active in this. The European Union and the Council of Europe are involved in the new law on public television and radio. I believe that this offers a huge opportunity for development for independent public TV and radio. If I'm right, this law is now with the president for signature. We can talk a long time about politics; we do so very often when we talk about Ukraine. The core of the reforms is the package of funding that is really needed, because Ukraine is economically very badly affected, partly because of the destabilisation that is also a brake on reforms. That's kind of complicated. In the reports mentioned, the important question at the moment is how the European Union and the IMF can achieve the combination of reforms and funding responsibly with the loans that have been granted. There are other aspects to this, such as short-term humanitarian aid. It is well known that I, along with Mr Ploumen, have taken a decision on this because of the dramatic situation of a number of citizens. This includes a number of rule of law programmes. They are not large amounts, but they can help to promote this process and, as a result, slowly but surely achieve stabilisation in the region. I repeat that further destabilization of Ukraine is a political priority of the first order, just when the risks of the implementation of Minsk II have not yet been removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u60	The Minister is right to say that there are many risks. That's no reason not to do anything. My question focused in particular on the mechanisms that the Minister has through the EU to slow down if things are not going well. The objectives are very noble, but at the same time there is still a long way to go and there are many bears on that road. Suppose such a bear presents itself, how do we react? We have had many beautiful plans in the past, but in the end things went wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u61	In general, there is a lot of control over funds going to Ukraine. That is why, for example, it was so difficult to reach an IMF package. Precisely the relationship between the amount of funds and the nature of the reforms was more critical: you are now giving so little that these reforms cannot even be financed. I think that there is a very critical view and rightly so. I believe that the violation of the essential elements of the association agreement on the basis of which the agreement should be suspended can never be ruled out. That's not the issue right now. The agreement includes monitoring mechanisms for this purpose. They're looking closely at it. This also applies to human rights. I share Mr Sjoerdsma's criticism of a number of association agreements, namely that political dialogue is often insufficient. However, there is; we spoke with Moldova recently, with the new team in Chisinau, including the ministers of the European Union. It is quite specific about all these points, but it is in the end a political dialogue. It concerns foreign policy, security policy and human rights reform. You have to understand from each other what's going on. It is not just a list that you pass by with the announcement: ladies and gentlemen, you did not do well and then we automatically proceed to this measure. You should not be afraid of that, but anyone who visits those countries knows that it is a movement that needs to be supported and that can have a setback. In this sense, there must be understanding of each other, but that does not mean that it could be done less critically. The same applies to minorities. We are already actively working on this, not only through the association agreements but through the OSCE Commissioner for National Minorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u62	I asked another question about Ukraine, which the Minister may have missed. I asked about the government's expectations on trade between Ukraine and Russia. The cabinet says it does not see any problems or commercial objections, but we see that this trade is really declining and that Russia is turning the screws, for example by boycotting products and also by remittances in the case of Georgia and Moldova. I'd like to hear the Minister's impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u63	I can say two things about that. The main reason for the reduction in trade is in gas: there is a significant reduction in gas imports. In addition, trade has been reduced due to the destabilisation and economic downturn, which also has to do with transport and transport opportunities. Furthermore, the Russian Federation itself has a number of concerns. To those who believe that we should not talk to Russia, I say that we should do so. The Russians also have a number of concerns about trade, which I believe could be resolved. They fear, for example, that the trade element of the agreement will lead to an enormous number of cheap products on the Russian market by the end of the year. Those are very real points. They can criticize this according to the rules and can respond to it in a way that can be addressed by the institutions. We are seeing a large increase in trade with the European Union. We see that the reduction for Russia is not so much politically motivated but primarily related to the gas, although I do not wish to deny that there are a lot of political aspects to this. There really is the will and I think the need to talk about it with the Russian Federation. This applies more generally, but also because there are mutual interests. It is also said that we talk too little with Russia, that there is not enough communication with the Russians. It is precisely because they want to create a type of customs union with other countries such as Armenia, which will be heavily dominated by Russia, that I think it is important for the Commission to open the debate on this issue. This does not need to be done directly at political level; it can also be done in the field of technology and commerce. I think that's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u64	I fully agree with the Minister on the dialogue with Russia and on Russia's concerns, all the more so if they are, of course, justified. However, I believe that this is the same as the political dialogue with Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine. It seems to me that this dialogue is largely absent. I am concerned about the great geopolitical dialogue; who is ultimately talking to Russia? But that is not what this debate is about. This also concerns these particular trade concerns of Russia. The Minister says that the European Commission should do so. I ask him: is the European Commission doing the same, is it proactively trying to overcome this kind of objection?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u65	The answer to that is really yes. That's Commissioner Hahn and the people who are doing business. There is also a European competence in this area, which is not a shared competence. I don't really have that much to worry about. I'm more concerned with the other way of talking. I think that's very important. I think we could try a little harder to support that. There are also a number of dilemmas. There are those who say that you are creating a problem if you are going to legitimize that trade agreement or the customs union that Russia is about to set up. I'm not one of them. I think this should be done. I believe that these are real trade policy elements, which should also be discussed with the Russian Federation. I'm here to talk about Moldova. The previous coalition, which was pro-EU, has turned Moldova into the agreements we are talking about. In 2013, the Prime Minister resigned there following a cover-up around the Supreme Court. There have been new elections. There is now a cabinet that is pro-European Union in itself, but it must work with the support of the Communist Party. So there are still concerns. The Chamber has already appointed it, but we also have these concerns, particularly with regard to the banking crisis, mismanagement, corruption and a lack of rule of law. In all reforms, it is important to change the course and to allow the population to see the consequences in terms of work and income rather immediately. There is a feeling that a lot of political games are still being played. And that's not good. That is why I share the concerns of some of you, saying directly that there are two important elements. Firstly, it concerns Transnistria and Gagauzia, where an illegal referendum was held last year in which the population would have voted against EU membership and for independence. This referendum in no way met any international standard and is therefore not recognised by the Netherlands and the European Union. We do not question Moldova's unity and territorial integrity in any way. It is up to the Moldovan people as a whole to determine the future of its country democratically. The position of minorities in Moldova, including this area, is, of course, also something we are discussing directly with Moldova when it comes to the human rights dialogue and the agreements. This is reinforced by the association agreement. We are also active in the transition process in Moldova through bilateral Matra funds. These are small amounts, but they are very important for the points we have just discussed, such as the rule of law and technical support for the Ministry of Finance through our electoral group relationship with Moldova, which we have been cherishing for a long time. In addition, there are all kinds of projects that I am only a little late for what they are, given the time available, but which are important. As far as reforms are concerned, I believe that progress has really been made in a number of areas, including education, freedom of the media and rights for minorities. In addition, progress has been made on the visa-free regime. The issue here is also the vested interest groups and the oligarchs in certain ministries. The banking crisis is now the most important issue. The IMF has imposed liquidation of the banks as a precondition for a new agreement with the IMF. The World Bank has decided not to provide further budget support to Moldova due to this financial and economic policy. So we also keep our finger on the pulse through the implementation of the reforms. This is done at political level through the EU-Moldova Association Council, which is, moreover, a very well-functioning Council. Two weeks ago, we spoke very openly with Moldova's Foreign Minister about what could be done for these priorities. More specific questions have also been asked. The EU, like the Netherlands, has insisted that there should be an independent investigation to get what exactly happened there in relation to the banking crisis. During the first Association Council with Moldova, the banking crisis and the importance of getting to the bottom of it was a prime topic of discussion. We have also made this very clear to the authorities. This has led to an international agency conducting investigations on behalf of the National Bank of Moldova, but as far as we are concerned, that is not the end of the story. We want this study to be followed up by a second phase, which looks at how the funds that have disappeared can be recovered. In addition to this investigation, the prosecutor's anti-corruption unit, in cooperation with the national anti-corruption centre, has launched a criminal investigation to find out and try the culprits. The Moldovan Parliament has also claimed a role and has set up a committee of inquiry into the banking sector. It will give its opinion on financial sector reform in the coming period. The European Union urges Moldova, at every opportunity and at all levels, to continue these four tracks, namely actual investigation, recovery of resources, criminal investigations and systematic reforms. In addition, we are calling for negotiations on a framework agreement with the International Monetary Fund because of the tight supervision and reform conditions associated with it, including the reorganisation of the banking system. Moreover, no budget support payments by the European Union are foreseen. When such a tranche would be considered, it must of course be subject to strict conditions. There are also risks involved so that I will have a look at them again in the context of our relations with the EU institutions that deal with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u66	I will deal with those last two points. I would like to hear exactly what the control mechanisms we are going to use for the possible tranches of budget support and the programmes that follow. This can also be done in writing. I also think that the European Parliament and the Dutch Government should be able to see what the European Commission is doing there and whether business is being carried out. When it comes to the banking crisis, I particularly hear the measures that depend on what Moldova itself is doing. Can the Minister tell me what the role of Europe in this is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u67	There is a private investigation conducted by an international agency. I added that this is not enough for the European Union. There must be a follow-up study on the possibilities of recovering these funds, because I think the most important thing is that the people who have done so are criminalised and the funds are recovered. The European Union is directly involved in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u68	I hope the Minister will forgive me, but precisely because of what I saw last weekend, I think that some supervision from Brussels of what the Moldovan authorities themselves are doing may be requested and required. It's a big scandal if it's true. It may also have geopolitical consequences, and it seems to me that there is every reason not to leave it alone in an investigation supported by Parliament, whether it is being used or not. I myself am in favour of an independent prosecutor, which also concerns Moldova, but above all for a great deal of supervision by the European Commission and, ultimately, by the European Council, the Minister himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u69	I agree. The European Union has a primordial role in the cases we have mentioned: actual investigation, recovery of funds, criminal investigations and systematic banking reform. This means that the European Union, as a crucial element of the association agreements, has the task of ensuring that this is done, of monitoring and of possibly having consequences if these agreements are not complied with. I very much agree with Mr Ten Broeke on this. Then I'll come to Georgia. There is a lot to say about that too. We have the advantage that all these countries are in the electoral group of the IMF and the World Bank. We work well and very closely with these countries in the areas of administrative reform, development and judicial reform. The Netherlands also invests in a number of programmes in the field of Matra and human rights. In response to Mr Sjoerdsma, I would add that these are also programmes on equal rights for individuals, gender equality and justice. The EU-Moldova Association Agreement, which was a further question from Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Van Bommel, stipulates that this applies to the entire territory of Moldova. However, this is de facto not implemented in those areas where effective authority is lacking until Moldova's authority is restored there. This provision applies to all areas where Moldova currently does not exercise effective control. In the current situation, the agreement is not actually applied in Transnistria. There is therefore no question of suspending these regions in accordance with the provisions of the provision. The negotiations for resolving the dormant conflict take place in the so-called five-plus-two talks. In addition to Moldova and the unrecognised Transnistrian authorities, Russia, Ukraine and the OSCE also participate with external observation by the European Union and the United States. It is important that we have an opportunity to move it forward. That's moderate. The last meeting of this format was in April 2014. This agreement will have to look again at how Moldova, Transnistria and also the discussions on non-applicability. Making the association agreement possible in the interests of the citizens could be a bit of a crowbar. In Georgia, as you know, there were de facto presidential elections in Abkhazia. They were won by a supporter of good relations with the Russian Federation, President Khajimba. A new agreement has also been concluded between the Russian Federation and the Georgian region of Abkhazia. Even very recently, on 18 March, an alliance on integration between the Russian Federation and the Georgian region of South Ossetia was signed. Russian interference in these two Georgian regions has been going on for some time now. The agreements are a political signal that the Russian Federation wants to strengthen its grip on Abkhazia and South Ossetia. They are clear violations of Georgian sovereignty and territorial integrity and they undermine efforts to stabilise the security situation in the region. I regret that. The European Union is Georgia's largest trading partner. The bilateral trade is substantial: a small 3 billion dollars. Trade will be further liberalised through this agreement. At the same time, trade between the Russian Federation and Georgia has fortunately increased again in a number of respects. Exports grew three-and-a-half times in 2014 compared to the same period in 2013. This has to do with the lifting of embargoes by Russia. On the list of foreign investors in Georgia, the Russian Federation ranks ninth. The impact on the Georgian economy has more to do with the economic crisis in Russia itself. There is, of course, also influence in the field of trade figures. I think I have another question to answer about agricultural products. The agreement also agreed on an overarching body to monitor the implementation of the agreement: the Association Council, which includes a wide range of committees. That's all beautiful. Appropriate measures must therefore be taken to resolve or prevent problems. The government does not yet have any reason to increase the controls, but it is, of course, prepared to do so at the time given the regulatory framework and its implementation by Ukraine. This brings me to the end of the answers to the questions put to me by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u70	But only after Mr Van Bommel has asked you a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u71	We have talked about the sovereign right of these countries to make such an application for association, and that there are also European considerations which have to do with the interests of Europe itself. However, the Minister and others have also indicated that there is a expectation among the population and some leaders of these countries that this process will be carried out by some who will also end when they join the European Union. We have also discussed this membership in the framework of NATO before. How will the Minister prevent what is not the intention, namely membership of the European Union, from remaining the perception? Is what Mr Ten Broeke said exactly, namely that the Netherlands has returned to the promise of membership of NATO?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u72	I do not think that NATO membership is being discussed here at the moment. So I'm gonna leave that for what it is. When it comes to the European Union, Mr Van Bommel knows that there is nothing new under the sun. The European Union knows its treaties and, of course, can ask countries to join the European Union. Then there are the Copenhagen criteria. He knows the Chamber and nothing has changed about that. This association agreement is independent of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u73	Mr Van Bommel, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u74	As far as the Minister is concerned, this may be unrelated, but not as far as applicants are concerned. As far as NATO membership is concerned, it has been said here today in the Chamber that this is what has come back to us. That is why I ask the Dutch Minister for Foreign Affairs whether the Netherlands has returned to that membership.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u75	Again, on EU membership, I said what I said about it, namely that we know the European treaties and that countries have the right to ask for them. That's separate from this. I am not talking about perception in countries, but that position is also quite clear in discussions we have with the countries concerned. As a result of the whole discussion on NATO enlargement, the Dutch Government has already said here that this is not the case at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-01-tweedekamer-4.u76	This brings the Minister to the end of his first term. The second deadline, both on the part of the Chamber and on the part of the Minister, will take place tomorrow in the afternoon, prior to the debate on the State of the Union. I would ask Members to keep a close eye on the timetable for this. I would also like to thank the Chamber on behalf of the government for its willingness to do so in this way.
