ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. This is the first time we've talked to the new Secretary of State. I also congratulate him warmly on behalf of the PVV Group. The new Secretary of State can get to work right away, because we are in the middle of an asylum crisis. Last year, as many as 626,000 asylum seekers applied for a residence permit in the EU countries. Compared to 2013, this is an increase of 44%. It is likely to get worse because in Libya an estimated 1 million migrants are ready to make the crossing to Europe. That is not strange because, unfortunately, the EU is not stopping one migrant. In fact, the migrants found in the Mediterranean should be actively brought to European ports by EU rules. To the great joy of course of smugglers, who can even lower their rates. The actual disappearance of the European external borders is particularly bad for the Netherlands. Asylum seekers can travel to our country uncontrolled upon arrival in Italy. That's what they do with tens of thousands. After all, the cabinet has issued residence permits. They will then receive a benefit and, as a matter of priority, a social housing allowance. The cabinet has rolled out the red carpet for all asylum seekers and has the Dutch citizen pay the bill for this literally and figuratively. They become strangers in their own country, face nuisance, street terror and Islamization. They lose their identity, culture and core values. Enough is enough. This has to stop. The asylum influx has to stop. True refugees must of course be helped, but this can be done in their own region. I have only one request to the Secretary of State to ensure that asylum seekers are no longer admitted to the Netherlands. If the Secretary of State says, in accordance with the VVD's asylum plan, that only European asylum seekers have the chance to be admitted, that is of course already very good. That VVD note was written for a reason, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr Fritsma. Of course, I would also like to welcome the new Secretary of State for Security and Justice to trade-K. I give him the floor to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I would also like to thank Mr Fritsma for the opportunity to return quickly to the Chamber. I was afraid that after so many years on Tuesday I would have to do without Question Time. I thank him for saving me that. Mr Fritsma mentioned a number of figures. In 2014, there was a significant increase in the number of asylum applications. Eurostat figures 627,000 asylum applications in the European Union. This is not the same as the total number of people. You see, there are doubles. The number is expected not to decrease in 2015 compared to 2014, which has everything to do with the restless world and fireplaces in Syria and Afghanistan, where the situation is still bad. In other parts of the world too, it is restless and there is a risk of escalation. That is why the cabinet is committed to a strong asylum policy in Europe and to better monitoring of the European external borders. Last year the Italians were attacked by the Netherlands. Last week a vague Greek threat was immediately crushed. Of course, we are also contributing, through Operation Triton of Frontex, to monitoring the external borders of the sea even closer to the European borders. We are also focusing on more shelter in the region. That is why we donate approximately 33 million to the UNHCR every year, which means that 86% of all refugees worldwide are received in their own region. Of the remaining 14%, not everyone comes to countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u4	I thank the Secretary of State for the answers given. Unfortunately, these are exactly the wrong answers. The Secretary of State is talking about Frontex border surveillance organisation. That's not a border guard organization at all. It's a pilot service. Once again, boats with migrants are not being stopped, but brought to European ports under European rules. The Secretary of State doesn't say anything about that. Apparently, he doesn't even want to change that. However, that is the situation, as well as the fact that all asylum seekers who register in the Netherlands are entitled to reception and a residence procedure. The Secretary of State doesn't seem to want to change that, either. In fact, he says that, on account of the war situation in Syria, we will keep this problem for a while. What kind of weird resignation is that? It's time for action. The Netherlands cannot cope with this mass immigration. The asylum stream has to stop. Where are the measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u5	The operation has just been adapted to bring us closer to the European coast. This reduces the risk that we have to absorb and absorb a lot of people. Frontex always gets two-way criticism. It is also criticised for being too little of a ferry service, and I also think that it should not be a ferry service and that it would be too little of an eye for the people who want to cross. The goal is, of course, to discourage the crossing. The aim is to take the wind out of the sails by keeping closer to the European coastline. The aim is also to ensure that there are no more attempts that end so tragically, and thus less asylum influx into the European Union. Mr Fritsma asked about other ways in which this cabinet does so. One of these is to strengthen the commitment to reception in the region, so that you get fewer asylum applications here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u6	Unfortunately, they're empty words. What is the point of receiving care in the region if you now have an obligation to take care of all asylum seekers who come here? That's why they come here, of course! We have to get rid of that obligation. Again, why don't I hear the Secretary of State about that? Finally, Mr President. I have twenty seconds left, and I would like to use them to express my disappointment in the VVD Group, because it comes with an asylum plan which promises decisiveness, while the first VVD's best to take place in box K will simply be defending PvdA's open borders policy. You can't do that! Unfortunately, the VVD Group has betrayed the citizen again, and that is a very sad thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u7	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u8	It's that I know who it's from, otherwise it could be offensive. Now I see only that the content of our cabinet policy is not in line with the qualifications given by Mr Fritsma. In addition, it is striking that Mr Fritsma is so enthusiastic about the VVD's plan, which is of course good in itself. Then I assume that he will continue to believe that the problem needs to be solved at European level, through EU measures, because that is part of that plan. And that's new to the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u9	On behalf of the CDA Group, I would also like to congratulate and congratulate Mr Dijkhoff on his step towards the department. I have one question. Has Mr Dijkhoff been involved as Secretary of State or MP in drawing up Mr Azmani's plans and what does he think?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u10	As Secretary of State, of course, I have nothing to do with it and I have not typed a letter for it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u11	Congratulations, of course, to the Secretary of State of the D66 Group. He's still in his honeymoon, but I still have an important question for him. One of the largest groups here in the Chamber has proposed that a fence be set up for Europe and that refugees from outside Europe should no longer be taken up in the Netherlands. That should be done by the cabinet. I wonder if this fresh Secretary of State is enthusiastic about this plan and whether he would like to implement it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u12	If parties in the Chamber call on Mr Schouw, if he is so enthusiastic about this by means of a motion for a resolution, and that motion gets a majority, then the cabinet will of course do so. Until then, I note that the cabinet is pursuing cabinet policy. There are similarities with the plan, for example a stronger commitment to care in the region, but there are also differences. I think it is very good that the cabinet should carry out what is now possible and that the parties in the Chamber should think ahead of what needs to be done and what will happen in the future. If those parties in the Chamber come to a majority and call on the cabinet to do something, then the cabinet executes it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u13	Congratulations from the GroenLinks side for this Secretary of State. He now states that he does not yet have a position on the VVD's plan. I'd like to have that point of view. When can that come to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u14	If the Chamber wants to make a habit of having a cabinet position even before the Chamber discusses it... I see such a plan as a starting point for political discussion. I saw GroenLinks react by launching its own plan, which was at least 20% agreed. It's okay. I would like to say something about this, but it seems to me that the cabinet will react if the European Commission presents the migration agenda on 27 May and we discuss it with the Chamber. All input of the Chamber, whether that is just a statement or a very elaborate plan, is then discussed. This is how we come to policy together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u15	For a moment, I thought the Secretary of State said it was gratifying that the PVV supported the VVD's plan. I heard some kind of value judgment in that one anyway. Apart from that, I heard the Secretary of State, I congratulate him on his appointment, and I also say that he sees this as support for government policy, especially in the region. Then my next question would be: is the cabinet going to invest more in that? In the past year, a number of parties have decided to invest extra in the reception of refugees in the region. Are we gonna do that again for the next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u16	In order to avoid misunderstandings, perhaps Mr Voordewind did not understand that it was a somewhat cynical joke in the direction of the PVV, that that group would implicitly say that it is a European problem. I don't mind explaining that joke, even though it doesn't usually make jokes any better. As I said a moment ago about investment in reception in the region, we are spending 33 million in 2015 through the UNHCR. Further investments and other shifts will, of course, only be dealt with in the budget. We'll discuss it with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u17	The SGP Group also congratulated the new Secretary of State and thanked him for his willingness to step back from the high office of representative of the people and to serve the country as Secretary of State. My question is still about reception in the region. The Secretary of State has just indicated that a high percentage of refugees are already being received in the region. Does the Secretary of State, the Cabinet, see opportunities to provide better reception in the region, so that conditions can be improved and many people can get a place there more easily?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u18	The quality of reception in the region naturally varies. It seems to me that if it becomes even more common ground that regions themselves take responsibility for reception and if the burden that this entails is shared out among more countries in the region, there will also be more room for proper reception. That is a different matter from what I think now that the Netherlands should be totally responsible for the quality of that care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u19	I still have a follow-up question. I would like to put some facts to the House regarding reception in the region. Does the Secretary of State know that the wave states, those rich countries in the Gulf region, have not received one Syrian? The exception is Qatar, where 46 Syrians were captured. How can the Secretary of State talk about "care in the region" if those are the facts? And then I have another follow-up question: please make the rich oil sheiks responsible for receiving Syrians and not the Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u20	The reason why I can still talk about reception in the region is that 86% of all refugees in the region are being received. 86%: there is still room for improvement. Therefore, I will not say that all countries are already taking full responsibility. That is why I answered Mr van der Staaij's question that if the burden is widened and borne by more countries, it will affect the quantity and quality of care there. Reception in our own region, that is what we are striving for, and that is what can best be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-tweedekamer-3.u21	Thank you for your answers and thank you for coming to the Chamber. I'm sure we'll see you more often in Question Time.
