ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u2	Madam President. Last Friday's terrorist attacks in Paris fill the SP with horror, anger, sorrow and determination. Our thoughts are primarily on the victims and their families, on the injured and on anyone directly or indirectly involved. It is important for the whole of the Netherlands to have thought about this and to continue to think about it. These attacks show two things very clearly. Firstly, the fact that we are very vulnerable in our open and free society. The balance between security on the one hand and openness and freedom on the other will have to be reviewed by these attacks. Secondly, these attacks show that terrorist groups have the intention and capacity to commit attacks in and against the West. And not only against the West, because Russia, Turkey and Lebanon were also faced with terrorist attacks very recently. We also express our condolences to the victims. Cooperation, European and global, against terror is necessary. The attacks in Paris call for national and international action. Tomorrow, the debate between the group chairmen and the government will focus on national action. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister today to address international policy, starting with the European aspects. I have three questions. Firstly, what is the significance of calling in the assistance clause of Article 42 of the Treaty of the European Union? Can this commitment also mean that the Netherlands is supposed to go along with the bombing in Syria? That impression was given a little bit yesterday by the Secretary of Defense. Secondly, what are the consequences of the use of the term "war" in international law, including by the Prime Minister? In the Netherlands, this can have an impact on the detection of people engaged in terrorism. Internationally, it may have consequences for the security of Dutch military targets. Thirdly, how will the registration and identification of refugees at the external border of the European Union be improved? Yesterday, in his letter, the cabinet recognised that jihadists can come with the flow of refugees into the European Union. The SP has doubts as to whether a bomb rain in an IS controlled area will reduce the risk of attacks in Europe. The logic makes the opposite fear: sympathizers of IS could find a motive for terrorist actions here. There are also analysts and connoisseurs of IS who say that extra Western military engagement in Syria and Iraq is desired by IS precisely because it increases the breeding ground and recruitment base for terror. Can the Minister respond to this? However, the call to repay the attacks in Paris by military force against IS is perfectly understandable. At the same time, considerations of military action must remain guiding. The question must be what is effective. More than one year after the launch of the military intervention led by the United States in Iraq and later in Syria, Islamic State hardly seems to be seriously affected. IS is lord and master in half Syria and in a third part of Iraq. What does this say about the effect of Western military action? What does this say about the future of both countries? Is it true to speak of the countries of Iraq and Syria, or is there de facto a division and new borders? Shouldn't international action be based on that? Military action has helped to ensure that the flow of refugees has not decreased over the past year, but increased. Quite a few refugees in Iraqi Kurdistan, from Syria, have fled Western bombs, not IS. Conversely, the flow of jihadists towards IS area has also increased. These unintended effects should make us think. What is the reaction of the Dutch Government to this? Military action has not brought any closer to a political solution to the war in Syria and Iraq. Rather, there seems to be a hardening of the contradictions between the warring parties. We also continue to deal with so-called allies in the fight in Iraq and Syria, which is a public secret that they support jihadists and radical organisations. Think Saudi Arabia and Turkey. The latter started a military campaign against the Islamic State at the end of July, but in practice this turned out to be mainly military action against the PKK, while Kurdish fighters played an important role in preventing mass slaughter in Sinjar and Kobani. How does the Minister see this double play of Turkey? Is Turkey, our ally in NATO, being called upon to do so? The SP continues to emphasise the importance of blocking IS's income. An important source of income is oil exports, whose revenues are still very large. It's $50 million a month, it's said. How is that possible? The oil is mostly exported through Turkey and is also, again via Turkey, imported by IS material to maintain the production of oil. Isn't this coalition's priority against IS? Is there finally success in cutting off the funding flows leading to ISIS? My next point concerns the miserable human rights situation in Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u3	I feel like there's a block off. I would like to ask Mr Van Bommel a question. He rightly points to a number of problems, setbacks and challenges in the fight against ISIS, but he does not really mention what has been achieved: the emergence of ISIS, especially in Iraq. I am thinking in particular of the Kurdish region. The SP was against the actions in Iraq. Can Mr Van Bommel give his reflection on what would have happened if the Netherlands and other countries had not assisted the Kurds last year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr Servaes knows that the hallmark of every history is that it conceals its alternate course. So we will never know how things could have gone differently if, for example, more pressure had been put on Baghdad to achieve a policy, in which there was also room for the Sunnis in Iraq, in my opinion, the central problem in Iraq, where there was also good cooperation with the Kurds in Baghdad. I call money flows, but I also call security. I wish we could have known. Then we could have really made a choice. However, we cannot know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u5	That's the stage before it. We agree that before ISIS came up, it was wrong in Iraq and that President Maliki's policy was not good at the time, but the fact is that ISIS has arrived. I was standing next to the Kurds on the front line a month ago. They told me that without the support from the air, with their limited military capabilities they could never have stopped ISIS and could never have recovered territory. I know Mr Van Bommel as a good friend of the Kurds. Does he share that analysis of the Kurds themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u6	Under those circumstances, if you look at it at the time, I share that analysis. However, Mr Servaes should not immediately be satisfied with just that answer, because I would like to say immediately that the solution is not there, unless we realise, not so much from an international point of view, but from a moment on, that Iraq no longer exists and that the country needs to be divided up. That is why I asked that question about the division. We will then divide the country into three parts and say: the government in Baghdad is no longer responsible for the security of northern Iraq, where the Kurds live, but that part will become an international protectorate, for example under the protection of the Americans, Baghdad is then about central Iraq and yet others will be given responsibility for another part in Iraq. After all, that is what should have happened. Then we are going to make another map of Iraq, and thus assign other powers and responsibilities. I asked the government to respond to that. I think that is where the problem lies in Iraq. The question is: who has the right to say what it is and who has the responsibility for safety? My second point concerns the miserable human rights situation in Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia is an important ally of the West, including in the fight against Islamic State. It mentions a memorandum of understanding, an agreement, between the Netherlands and Saudi Arabia. What does this say? Is there any mention of human rights in Saudi Arabia? The SP has serious doubts about the good relations between the Netherlands and Saudi Arabia. This country also sponsors groups that fight in Syria. Is Saudi Arabia then addressed by the Netherlands? Is the Netherlands protesting against the unfair trials and judgments against human rights activists in Saudi Arabia? Does the Minister share my view that Saudi Arabia is using anti-terrorism legislation to silence critics? The Chamber adopted my motion calling on the government to ask the Saudi authorities for the release of the blogger Raif Badawi, who had previously been sentenced to 1,000 canings. Has this motion been carried out? Finally, can the Minister comment on the Dutch commitment to improving the position of women in Saudi Arabia? Then there are developments in Israel and Palestine. The SP is deeply concerned about the violence perpetrated by Palestinian children and Israeli citizens. It's important to focus on de-escalation. What will the Netherlands do in this regard? Last week, the European Union decided to publish the directives on labelling products from illegal settlements. This will end the deception of consumers by preventing products from the settlements from being sold as "made in Israel." How are these directives implemented in practice? The European Union is considering concrete ways of making the dividing line between Israel and the occupied Palestinian territories clearer. Recent developments in Amsterdam are therefore interesting. There it has been decided to cooperate with Ramallah and Tel Aviv, with a number of reservations, for example that Amsterdam will not have any export or direct or indirect financial relations with illegal settlements in the Palestinian area. Another condition is to ensure that projects entered into do not involve indirect cooperation with the Israeli army or the Ministry of Defence. Does the Minister see any point in this in order to clarify the dividing line between Israel and occupied Palestinian territory at national level? Then I come to another theme: the American drone war. This program, in which alleged terrorists are killed by attacks on unarmed aircraft, was always surrounded by secrecy. That's over now. Presumption that drones are very inaccurate and that civilian victims are being muffled away has now been confirmed in the so-called Drone Papers; the American documents that have recently been leaked. In this Drone Papers is even referred to an operation involving 90% of the killed individuals, people who were not wanted to kill. It wasn't the people people were looking for. But 90% can no longer be called collateral damage. Does the Minister share the concerns of the SP that the use of drones is inaccurate and that they cause many civilian casualties? Is the Minister prepared to ask his American colleagues for clarification on the information contained in the Drone Papers and to call for transparency? The leaked documents also show that the Americans often use allies' intelligence in drone attacks. Can the Minister exclude that Dutch intelligence leads to an American deployment of drones, anywhere in the world, where the risk of civilian casualties is enormous? I'm coming to Ukraine. The SP has always been critical of the role of the West in the escalation of violence in Ukraine and the rising tensions with Russia. More than 8,000 people have already died during the war in Ukraine, including the deaths of the fatal MH17 flight. The relationship between the West and Russia is becoming more and more similar to that of the 1980s, the time of the Cold War. That's very worrying. Can the Minister indicate what efforts are being made by the Netherlands to de-escalate this conflict? The SP has strongly criticised the association agreement between the European Union and Ukraine. We saw how developments surrounding this issue contributed to a spiral of polarisation and ultimately violence in Ukraine. After all, it was the initial refusal of then President Yanukovych to sign this association agreement that triggered a series of events. These events eventually led to the civil war in which the country is now in the middle and for which no lasting solution is yet in sight. Does the Minister agree with me that the Association Agreement has contributed to instability and polarisation in Ukraine? Some are already advocating a division of Ukraine. What is the Minister's position on such proposals? Over and over again, this Minister has said that the Treaty is not a portal for EU membership. European politicians say otherwise. Stefan Füle said last year, when he was still EU Commissioner for Enlargement, that Ukraine should eventually become a full member. Herman van Rompuy, then President of the European Council, and then President Barroso indicated that they saw the future of Ukraine in the European Union. Can the Minister comment on this? The SP finds these statements very disturbing. That is why we look forward to the referendum on this treaty on 6 April next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u7	Do I hear the SP Group now defending former dictator Yanukovych who sent riot police and military on his own demonstration population in Kiev?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u8	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u9	That's a bit like it, isn't it? I have to say that the SP Group is saying here that it was actually a good policy of Yanukovych not to follow the will of the Ukrainian people to approach Europe from the point of view of development, freedom of expression and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u10	I was allowed to be an election observer for the OSCE in the elections where Yanukovych was elected President. According to the OSCE, these elections were free and fair. The President of Ukraine was undoubtedly a corrupt boss of the country, just as most politicians, unfortunately, are corrupted in Ukraine. That's a big problem. For that we will have to find a solution. It did belong to his powers to do what he did. There is a division in Ukraine about the orientation east or west, whether it is the membership of NATO, which NATO has decided on, or the association with Russia or the European Union. The population was and has been strongly condemned for this. Then I can imagine that at such a moment you would take a step back and not opt for an association with one or the other. Yanukovych's orientation towards the east has contributed to the struggle and still being waged in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u11	Ukraine is indeed a corrupt country. At the Transparency International Index it is far below a lot of African countries that are already not very high-ranking. It is therefore extremely important for Dutch exporters to be able to recoup their investments. They can do that especially if they have a little legal certainty. That is precisely what the association agreement provides for, because 80% of that treaty is about matters relating to export credit insurance, with the way to make your money back in a fair way; the fact that you do not have to pay bribes and when that happens, you can also appeal to someone. What do you say to those Dutch truck drivers, to those Dutch companies that export, to those Dutch investors who are the second investor in Ukraine worldwide? What do you say to them if you take away that treaty, that last piece of certainty they have?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u12	We spoke to these truck drivers recently. They are not waiting for this association agreement, because they expect their jobs to come on the road, just as they did in the case of countries that have joined the European Union, such as Poland and other countries. That may be a very real fear because we will see that offices will be opened in Ukraine by Dutch transporters who say they have a branch there and that they will be able to take care of the Dutch-Ukraine transport under conditions of employment from Ukraine. So why don't you talk to those drivers yourself? We did that. These people are not waiting for this association agreement. What we fear is that because of this increased trade and all these freedoms in the association agreement, corruption will also enter the Netherlands and Europe through that trade.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u13	Dutch transport companies have been leading Europe for years because they have always resisted and overcome new developments, including internationalisation, including new markets. So these Dutch truck drivers benefit from the fact that their companies can continue to make money, including in new countries such as Ukraine. I repeat my question to Mr Van Bommel. What do Dutch companies that invest in them? We're the second investor in it if they're left without any protection, which you take away from them by pulling this treaty out of them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u14	Of course, the answer is already in the question. The Netherlands is already a huge investor without that association agreement. So should we conclude that association agreement in order to maintain that position? That is not the case. We must, however, have the certainty that we have retained, in the legal field and in what we can keep out of the door. I challenge Mr Ten Broeke: are you really going to talk to those truck drivers, because they are not waiting for the association agreement with Ukraine. I'd like to do the same with you. Then we'll talk at Vos in Oss, where jobs have been completely demolished.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u15	At Bolk in Almelo.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u16	That's where we're gonna talk. I would like to go on road tour with Mr Ten Broeke to talk there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u17	I understand that Mr Servaes is going with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u18	Then there is something positive coming out of this interruption. Mr. Servaes can come if he wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u19	Then I'm very happy. Oss is my own hometown, so I'll take you to Vos in Oss. Actually, I think that's best. I actually wanted to go back to the more fundamental question. What Mr Van Bommel is doing now is once again creating the illusion that all kinds of other forces have made Ukraine decide what it has decided. He mentions the European Union's portal, which would be in it. He calls it the removal of the president. Two specific questions. Where does the association agreement say that there would be an EU portal? Who decided this president couldn't stay in office after what happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u20	I have used the term "foreportal" because the Dutch Government has always stressed that this treaty would not be a portal. Of course, it's not in the Treaty either. It is about where European leaders express their intentions and what the perception is in Ukraine itself. That's what politics matters. You don't have to run away from that. Pretending that there is nothing going on towards EU membership is closing your eyes to the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u21	I do not know whether Mr Van Bommel used the word 'illegal' about the removal of the President, but he did give that impression, talking about perceptions. I asked who had decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u22	It was decided by Parliament. I didn't call that illegal. I said that Yanukovych's decision not to sign the treaty was a legitimate decision of the President of Ukraine. I think we are talking about two different things. Parliament finally agreed, not initially, to the departure of Yanukovych. I fully acknowledge that, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u23	Then what is Mr Van Bommel's point? He admits that there is nothing in the treaty about a portal at all. He is talking about a statement by European leaders, but I do not believe that there are any conclusions from a European Council or from whatever that is. Then all we have left is a perception. That's a little weak, to be honest. And the president's deposition has been done by parliament. Mr Van Bommel himself is a Member of Parliament. If we no longer see our government, for example, because it is shooting at unarmed demonstrators, we have every right to call our government to order or to send it home. What is Mr Van Bommel's point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u24	I didn't dispute the latter. I repeat that. I did not dispute that at that time this was the right of Ukraine's parliament. I'm looking at our own responsibility. I note that the association agreement between the EU and Ukraine has set up the population, which was already divided about orientation, further against each other and that this division, which should not be stirred up, has eventually led to a civil war in Ukraine. That's what I'm establishing. I can see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u25	The SGP also did not read the association agreement and did not assess it as a portal to a subsequent phase, but independently on its own merits, on the basis of what is in the text. Has Mr Van Bommel himself found in the text of the Treaty any indications that it would make it easier to enforce effective accession to the EU?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u26	Yeah, I found it. Look at the chapters on international cooperation, foreign policy and justice and home affairs. I would advise Mr van der Staaij to read these chapters with particular interest, because they clearly go beyond trade. The VVD says that association is 80% trade and that this is good because free trade is always good in the eyes of the VVD. But there are also other areas. Culture is called much more. It is indeed a step towards getting closer to the EU. There's no denying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u27	An association agreement can also have a wider scope than just the trading points. I do not think that this is a clear example of how it would make it easier to become a member of the European Union. You can also maintain a reading in this respect, say that this is really a different discussion and not say that this is a step towards the EU. If you explain it in Mr Van Bommel's way, are you not going to create a lot of confusion in the direction of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u28	The confusion was not caused by me, but by important European leaders whose word has much more meaning than mine, namely Štefan Füle, then European Commissioner for Enlargement and Herman van Rompuy, President of the European Council. Those aren't little guys like you and me. Their words really matter and that is why I quote these gentlemen. I would ask Van der Staaij to take a good look at that too. My penultimate point concerns the performance of Dutch soldiers in the Dutch East Indies in the period 1945-1949. This has recently come out because of two recent scientific studies. These investigations once again undermine the image that has been dominant for a long time, namely that they would have been war crimes that did not occur on a large scale. It would have been excesses. It appears to be history forgery. The well-known scientist Gert Oostindie wrote a book about Dutch military in Indonesia based on about 1400 testimonies. In these testimonies, as many as 800 extreme incidents of violence are reported, and then they are about executions in court, the shooting of fleeing prisoners, torture and rape and kampongs that were simply burned down. The testimonies are only a small part of the total. After all, more than 200,000 soldiers have been shipped to the Dutch East Indies. That is why the author also concludes that the war crimes described in his book are just the tip of the iceberg. In reality, tens of thousands of war crimes must have been committed. The conclusion is that the violence of Dutch soldiers was structural and extreme. A few months earlier, in the last summer, the Swiss-Dutch historian Remy Limpach completed his research, drawing similar conclusions. As a result of these two investigations, I ask the Minister if he is prepared to look again at the research proposal that was made a few years ago. Three historical institutes then asked for a financial contribution to do a broad and comprehensive research into the war in Indonesia, the largest war ever waged by the Netherlands. That proposal is still on the table and, in the opinion of the SP, the two studies just mentioned give rise to the release of this money. Is the Minister also prepared to look again at requests for rehabilitation for Dutch soldiers who refused to fight in this colonial war? Then I have another question about the treatment of the claims of survivors of victims of civil executions in the former Dutch East Indies. This is something that has been regulated by civil law and I thank the Minister for his willingness to extend the deadline for this by two years, as was decided last summer. I read in an article in NRC Handelsblad that the Netherlands has taken on the historian Limpach to assess claims of next of kin, but that the next of kin do not have the same information. Can the Minister confirm this, and does he agree with me that it is very important that the next of kin should have access to such archive material? Does the Minister agree with me that it is important for the archives to actively track down lists of victims of Dutch war crimes, so that the claims of the survivors can be properly dealt with? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Finally, I have a question about Dutch prisoners abroad. I understand from the Epafras Foundation that she needs mediation from the consulates and embassies in order to get access to prisoners, but that this mediation does not exist because there is no subsidy relationship. Can the Minister confirm this? Why cannot this conciliation be carried out, especially in view of the previous strong appreciation for the work of Epafras? Can the Minister also explain why Epafras has no longer been awarded a grant and whether it is true that money is still available for care to prisoners abroad? I am, of course, also asking for this in view of the austerity that has been carried out on posts, while this important work must continue for Dutch residents in detention abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u29	Mr. Chairman. Liberté, égalité and fraternité have laid the foundations for our free tolerant and prosperous world. But the three of them can't live without security. The attacks in Paris, as well as those in New York, London, Madrid and Toulouse, and the previous day in Beirut, the Paris of the Middle East, have made this clear in a harsh manner. Terrorists who attack here, in the Western world, do so because they hate our freedom. They hate the freedom to eat with friends on a terrace on Friday night, after a week of hard work, the freedom to go to a pop concert, the freedom to encourage your country at a football game. Last Monday, French President Hollande said strikingly about the victims: their only crime was that they were alive. These terrible attacks are the work of barbarians who try to eat away the foundations of our free society with their acts of terror. Our society, an open society, is by definition vulnerable. Mr Van Bommel said the same thing. We're as free as we are open. That's because we assume reason, not violence. However, we can only remain an open and free society if those French primal principles of enlightenment are endorsed by all. The enemy is not only at our external borders, but, as it became clear on Friday, he lives among us and he lives in our inner cities. There are now voices claiming that Europe has brought these attacks on itself. That's what happens when you bomb and intervene in wars in the Middle East, that's the reasoning. It is the same reasoning Putin gave us at the United Nations General Assembly before he himself intervened in Syria. I would like to say to anyone who claims that: open your eyes, the attacks on Charlie Hebdo last January, or on last Friday in Paris, are not retaliation for French intervention in Libya, for action in Afghanistan, in Iraq or now in Syria. Terrorists do not commit these attacks because they hate what we do, but because they hate who we are. They are making these attacks because our way of life, in freedom and prosperity, stands in opposition to their apocalyptic worldview of violence and barbarism. We can now make ourselves small, hide under a stone and hope that no one will find us. However, this is not how we defeat ISIS. This is not how we defeat ISIS there, and this is not how we protect our achievements here. There are two things we can do, and we have to do it. Firstly, we must fight where ISIS is, where the training camps are, where the command centres and ammunition depots are, where the recruitment takes place, where the supply lines lie and where the fighters catch their breath, such as three of the perpetrators of the attacks in Paris. That's in Syria, not just Iraq. According to the VVD Group, Syria and Iraq form one battleground, with a border that is only in our Bosatlas. Without agreement within the alliance on a military strategy to tackle ISIS, this struggle is doomed to failure. A political solution for Syria? At your service. However, the effective fight against ISIS cannot wait for an international pension scheme for Assad. In the latest progress report on the fight against ISIS, the cabinet states that, in order to reach a decision on military engagement in Syria, four points need to be clarified: conflict, target selection, the places where action should be taken and the impact of the action on the chances of a solution for Syria itself. Can we not now see that this is clear after the outcome of the Vienna negotiations, and now that we know that fair elections will take place in the secular unitary state of Syria within eighteen months, elections that everyone can participate in? After Paris, we know that the world unites against ISIS. After the French retaliatory attacks on Raqqa, we also know that a target selection is possible. In my view, this has never been a problem either. Here's what I'm asking the Minister. Now that international law has been removed, now that there is a clear political solution for the future of Syria and now that the world has united against ISIS, what reasons are there for maintaining the Netherlands' self-chosen exemption position not to operate over Syria? Even the French and Americans are now asking us to operate there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u30	There is now an attempt to reach a political solution at UN level. That is why this would be the most awkward time to go one-sidedly and beyond that international, widely-behaved attempt to find a solution to throw bombs again. Does Mr Ten Broeke not agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u31	It is only one-sidedness of countries like the Netherlands. They have decided not to operate in the coalition of 60-plus countries over Syria. That is a unilateral decision on our part, not on the part of the international coalition. Nor is it a request from the UN. Mr Grashoff will have to tell me again what this international agreement of the UN is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u32	There is now a process under way under the leadership of UN Envoy De Mistura. That might give us hope for a view. Mr Ten Broeke himself gives examples of this. Then he finds, almost jumping to conclusions: oh, then we can start throwing bombs tomorrow. Does Mr Ten Broeke not agree with me that this is death in the pot for the same peace process?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u33	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u34	First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Ten Broeke on this very clear story. There's nothing I can do about that. The problem is, however, that this story has long been told by the VVD, but that little is happening. In fact, this cabinet dubs, the Secretary of Defense shouts "we cannot wait until January" and the Minister of Foreign Affairs wakes and weighs but does not reach a decision that leads to what Mr Ten Broeke wants to go to. How much patience does Mr Ten Broeke have with this cabinet on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u35	I am a democrat and, like you, I swore an oath on the Constitution. It is very clear: we parliamentarians do not have fighter jets in our possession, we do not employ generals and we do not send bombers. I keep to that, but an analysis can be carried out by the voters; I make it. My analysis is exactly as you say: from day one, from the day we entered into the fight against ISIS over Iraq under Article 100, clip-and-ready. I do not think we should impose this self-chosen restriction on us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u36	Mr Ten Broeke has a bit of a theoretical reflex in The Hague. I know him as someone who not only speaks, but is also willing to take responsibility for the consequences, the actions. I note that Mr Ten Broeke has been very clear on this subject, but at the same time there is no action by the cabinet. As a result, it is starting to look a bit like rhetoric, and I do not think that is appropriate for Mr Ten Broeke, hence my question. Formally it is right that the Chamber does not send bombers, but the Chamber does agree with missions and it can also set out political lines which could eventually lead to a decision of this kind being taken by the Cabinet. I repeat my question: how long does Mr Ten Broeke accept that there will be no decision, given his sharp and sharp analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u37	Mr Knops, thank you for the very complimentary question, apart from the point of demagoguery, but we will discuss it again later. Perhaps your contribution will give me an opportunity to do so. I do not think that the Constitution is a theoretical exercise, and I have shared it with you before. The motion of the CDA asking for Dutch bombs above Kobani, I really found all bounds out. That is the consistent line you have always heard me put down. On your point, the following. This Parliament, by a large majority, with two exceptions, namely the party of Mr Van der Staaij and my party, in response to the conclusions of the Davids Committee, said that we want an adequate international mandate to intervene. It was missing for nine months. That's what we've been waiting for. Even then, our analysis was: you can see that differently. Anyway, we have taken a different position on that. Then the argument was: yes, but you might be able to help Assad. The vacuum that was created was fully flown by other countries, the Turks, the Russians, and Assad were helped. Now the argument is the four points that I have just raised, and I really wonder what are the remaining concerns. We'll hear them from the minister later. It has undoubtedly been well informed, including in connection with Vienna. My conclusion at the moment is that there are no direct reasons for the Netherlands at least I don't see them; the French were in Raqqa, where they could find goals and the other points I hope to hear too, in order to lift that self-chosen restriction. Does this mean that four Dutch F-16s are going to fly right away? No, of course not, and you know it, Mr Knops. This means that we can join the coalition, as other countries do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u38	It is not new what Mr Ten Broeke says. He has said before that the VVD believes that there are no fundamental objections for the Netherlands to bomb in Syria. The Christian Union broadly agrees with this, although we have said that there must be a plan not to increase the scope for Assad. The question now is what could be the next step. Every strategist says you can bomb. Fortunately that went well with Kobani, but if you really want to tackle ISIS, you need those boots on the ground. What vision does the VVD have, apart from bombing, on the real struggle against ISIS in Syria?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u39	I'll give you a few elements of that. I agree that you can't defeat ISIS with bombers; I've said that since day one. You can narrow down the space in which ISIS operates. In Iraq, part of it succeeded. In Syria, this has only been achieved where air strikes have taken place, for example in the town of Kobani. Then the Kurds managed to take another strip. The Kurds didn't just take Kobani. They took Sinjar last week and Tikrit before that. Hundred thousand Iraqis were able to return to the place of Tikrit thanks to bombardments from a refugee situation. You always call yourself the Jezidis. They're the reason why all this started. They can still tell the tale. Thanks to bombing, they have not become a footnote in history. Does that make bombing so lonely? No, far from it. We need ground troops. Those ground troops are the Kurds right now. That is why the VVD has been arguing since day one that these Kurds should not only be trained but also be given weapons. I am therefore in favour of arms supplies to the Kurds. Unfortunately, not everyone agrees with us either. Anyway, I can only make my point clear. As you can see, from day one, I've been doing the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u40	As far as Iraq is concerned, that is a clear answer from the VVD, but I would like to get even more clarity from the VVD about Syria. It is true that we are also dependent on the Kurds there. Is the VVD therefore actually prepared to support the Kurds in Syria? We train the Kurds in Iraq. Should it not be considered that the international community will support the Kurds' forces in Syria, so that the boots on the ground actually get off the ground there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u41	Yes, but this is subject to the same limitation as the one I have just mentioned and which we have imposed. Moreover, the ground troops who have to do the work on the ground there are also Sunis. I also criticise, for example, the way in which the international coalition is implementing its strategy in the province of Anbar, where the city of Ramadi has now been seized. I fear it will take some time before an effective offensive is launched there. We're all hoping for an offensive against Raqqa. There is no shortage of ground forces, all the more unity. On this point, I can very much follow the Dutch Government: it also requires political unity. I'm just afraid that De Mistura hasn't made much progress at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u42	In conclusion, support for the Kurds, including Syria, has the support of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u43	No, I'm saying the same restrictions apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u44	I think Mr Ten Broeke's speech on tackling the Islamic State in Syria is a nice story, but it still sounds a little too easy to me. I think it's a little too noncommittal. As soon as it comes to taking concrete action, including by the Netherlands, to tackle Islamic State in Syria, Mr Ten Broeke turns away from that by saying: Parliament controls and the government rules. Mr Ten Broeke has tabled numerous motions in the past in which he has called on the government to do all it can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u45	Yeah, no bombs, no grenades.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u46	I can imagine Mr Ten Broeke saying that he is not an armchair general and that he is not going to decide when, by whom and where to bomb. I can well imagine, therefore, that I would ask Mr Ten Broeke to table a motion calling on the government to take part in the fight against Islamic State in Syria with that coalition. Can we see that motion of his?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u47	I invite Mr De Roon to ask me a question to which he has not already given the answer himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u48	I would like an answer from Mr Ten Broeke to the question I have just asked. I'll ask through the chairman. I would ask Mr Ten Broeke if he will table a motion calling on the government to tackle Islamic State in Syria in the framework of the coalition that is already fighting there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u49	From my hand, you will never see a motion calling for our forces to be deployed in an effective way. This is not part of Parliament and not part of our constitutional tasks. That's why I won't do that. Whether you call that an armchair general, as I have done in the past, or you refer to the Constitution on which we have all sworn an oath, does not thunder, because it is the same thing. I am surprised that Mr De Roon does. He quotes the Constitution on a regular basis and has taken an oath to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u50	Finally, Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u51	Then my conclusion is that there is absolutely no courage here that Mr Ten Broeke is able to show in other motions and in which he calls on the government to conduct all kinds of behaviour which he considers desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u52	I share both Mr Ten Broeke's substantive approach that a self-chosen restriction to Iraq alone is undesirable and the procedural caution that the Chamber should respect restraint. The latter in the light of the committee that she herself set up and said: be careful not to blur those roles of Chamber and Government too much. But we heard from the cabinet two months ago that it would now take a decision quickly. However, there is still a complete lack of clarity. When does Mr Ten Broeke expect the cabinet to clarify this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u53	The cabinet has provided clarity, for example in those four points. I asked for this today, also in the light of the French retaliatory attacks on Raqqa. But, of course, we do not just need retaliatory attacks; they must eventually be defeated. This requires a political and military strategy. It has always been my view that military developments are driving political developments very much. The cabinet seems to follow an inverse reasoning. In the end, it's about observing what's happening. I can see that over the last few weeks in Vienna I and II, and even last weekend in Turkey, there seems to be what I think is a political future for Syria. If this is what the Dutch Government means, hence my questions, I believe that this condition is also met. Since the Dutch Government has stated that it does not see any fundamental objections to operating over Syria and to participating in the coalition, I hope it will indicate which objections remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u54	I hear what Mr Ten Broeke is saying, but does it not come down to the fact that the hot potato is being pushed through every time with some other arguments?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u55	Not by me!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u56	By the Cabinet. On a point of fact, Mr Ten Broeke should also expect the cabinet to say yes or no and that it will not continue to push that matter forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u57	We supported the motion that led to this letter. I believe that I have only been complimenting most of my colleagues on the clarity with which I have addressed the cabinet so far. I am sure that will be different if Mr Sjoerdsma speaks later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u58	This leaves nothing to be desired. I do have a question for Mr Ten Broeke. Two days ago, he stated in an article in the Volkskrant or in the AD that this is not the time to bomb Syria, and now he considers this possible. What happened in the last two days?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u59	That was an answer to the question of whether the Netherlands should bomb on its own. It seems to me impossible that the Netherlands is sending four F-16s to bomb Raqqa. In the case of the French, it was a retribution and I have the necessary understanding. I have also said in the same or in another newspaper that it is not only about retribution but also about defeat. If you want to defeat ISIS, then the coalition that is very wide over Iraq must also be very wide over Syria. That has been my analysis from the beginning, and it is still my analysis today. I also see all kinds of developments that only support me in that reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u60	However, I would like to say a few words about this coalition, because Mr Ten Broeke must also quote himself well. He talked about the lack of a coalition over Syria and he is actually doing so again. He says that only a few countries, America, a single Arab state, Jordan and now France, are bombing over Syria. That is an important condition for Mr Ten Broeke. That's what he says in the interview. Let me then put the question as follows. Is this condition satisfied, according to Mr Ten Broeke? Is that broad-based coalition there for Syria? I ask this because my approach is the political strategy and that of Mr Ten Broeke's military strategy. Is the last one there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u61	There's a very broad coalition for Iraq. It is a coalition of more than 60 countries, of which about 30 are truly military contributions. The coalition for Syria is currently barely reaching six. You have to take the Canadians and the Danes off because they can't. So far, the French have only operated reconnaissance flights, but have now switched to a heavier input. So you cannot claim that this is a very broad coalition. It's partly the same coalition. Sunni Arab countries are currently busier than Yemen. It is certainly not a very broad coalition. There is a military strategy and there is also military and political clarity, especially after Vienna. The Vienna document contains nine points; I will let the humbug out for a moment. There is one point that everyone agrees on: ISIS, Daesh, must be fought. At least all sponsors of the conflict in Syria agree on this. Then you can no longer deny that there is a military and at least a political will to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u62	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u63	The second thing that has to happen is closer to home. A radical version of Islam is also found in the Muslim community in Europe and the Netherlands. I take my hat off to people like Ahmed Aboutaleb, Ahmed Marcouch and Yassin Elforkani, but we also need the great, silent, benevolent majority of Muslims to maintain trust in society and to prevent us from demanding new security measures after every attack. An open and free society, I say to Mr Van Bommel, after all, can only function on the basis of trust, the confidence that we share the same principles. If that trust fails, security measures will replace it. I don't want to sit on a terrace with a guard. I do not want to live in a society in which all our freedoms are guarded by agents: the freedom of religion, synagogues, but with the Marechaussee at the door; the freedom of expression, Mr Wilders, with more guards around him; the freedom of education, but no more teaching about the Holocaust; the freedom of assembly, but with a police escort; the freedom of the press, but with self-censorship. Open societies cannot maintain the democratic balance between freedom and security if representatives of Islam do not take precedence in combating the excesses that are carried out in their name. The cement of our open and vulnerable society is the confidence that without intimidation, fear and violence on a Friday night we can enjoy a terrace, a football game or, as far as I am concerned, a hard rock concert. The fight against ISIS cannot be separated from another major issue that concerns us. This summer there was the nasty statue of 3-year-old Aylan, washed up on the beach of the Turkish Bodrum. His tragic fate was not unique. In April, in the Mediterranean Sea, a boat was killed by more than 800 people. Nevertheless, many hundreds of thousands took the boat trip to Europe. In October it was 218,000, thousands of whom drowned. While we are here in the plenary, new migrants in the same Turkish coastal towns are waiting for the next boat. It's five to twelve. Think about it. Since the end of World War II, there have never been so many people on the run as they are now. 60 million. And the clock is ticking. The world population is growing explosively and the biggest growth is taking place in our own backyard, in the Middle East and in Africa. In 1950, 200 million people lived in Africa. Now that's 1 billion. It is expected that by the end of this century there will be more than 4 billion. This is the largest population growth ever. The lack of perspective and prosperity will lead us to see more and more people getting on a boat to Europe. Many of them will not stay in their own region. They are on the run: looking for happiness or simply out of lack of perspective. However, Europe has no infinite absorption capacity. Against Angela Merkel's "wir purchase tie," I put the statement of Helmut Schmidt, who unfortunately has slipped us, "the tie können wir nicht verkrafften." This summer we saw the beginning of that. Given the projection that Europe's population will shrink in the coming years, Europe cannot cope with this move in the population, which we now see as the harbinger of. The issues of security and migration, which I have just outlined, are the biggest challenges facing the Netherlands and Europe at the moment. They show that our foreign policy must first and foremost become an external policy. Like some of my colleagues, I recently visited the region. I was in some refugee camps, including the Jordan camp Zaatari where 80,000 Syrian refugees are currently staying. I spoke to Camp Director Abdul Rahman Omoush there. We talked for an hour and I noticed that at the end of our conversation he had still not asked if the Netherlands could take in more refugees. When I asked him why he had not asked me that question, he replied: Mr Ten Broeke, what your country is taking up is a final difference for me. It was about 2,000 people. He places them in a snap, either in Zaatari, or in one of the other five camps in Jordan or in the sixth camp under construction. What he did appeal to me, however, was the fact that he could no longer feed the people from 1 December. In mid-2014, the UN food programme paid 50 dollars per family to food vouchers. That was brought down to $13.50 in the fall. From December 1st, the budget would be up, says rahman Omoush. According to him, this is because promises are made by the donor community, but they are not being kept. Moreover, our way of financing aid organisations and refugee reception is so ad hoc that rahman Omoush and his colleagues from UNHCR can hardly plan ahead. In Lebanon, I spoke with the Lebanese Minister for Social Affairs, Rashid Derbas. He is responsible for the reception of displaced persons. He also asked for structural aid. I asked how we can help Lebanon organise the shelter. He said there must be education, but there is no money for that. There is a very active UNHCR, but Derbas does not see any of the promised international donor funds. In the same Lebanon I spoke a few hours later, just outside Tripoli, a single Syrian father. I asked him why he wanted to leave Lebanon, where he was safe at that time. He said my life here is hopeless. He had no money and could not cough up the €4,000 to be smuggled to Europe by boat. His family didn't do that for him either, but he'd take the boat soon. On his phone were the numbers of the Turkish smugglers who could take him with the deathboats to Europe. As he showed me his phone, I looked at his son sitting on his lap, whose life this father dared to risk, without blinking his eyes for a moment. A boy, not much older than Aylan. Those are the stories I have drawn to preparing for this budget debate. They reveal where urgent action is needed. That necessity transcends party politics and calls for common answers from our home, from among us and from the political centre.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u64	It is good that Mr Ten Broeke has gone to the camps. I've visited the same camps and I recognize the stories very clearly. For us, too, they have been the motivation to make earlier proposals to maintain, in particular, the emergency budgets for next year. However, I cannot reconcile them with the budget for next year's cabinet. I understand that Mr Ten Broeke and Mr Servaes want to pay 35 million for this. I do not know whether Mr Ten Broeke will be speaking about this, but still... There will be 750 million cuts in development cooperation next year. Even next year's emergency aid budgets will be cut by 130 million compared to this year, with the support of the VVD. The VVD can give up to 35 million, and it will receive my support for that, but that is of course not proportionate to the total amounts that this party, the VVD, cuts. So why not implement the Slob motion submitted to the General Political Reviews? Get over the bridge with substantial amounts of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u65	I will come up with substantial amounts of money that you have not seen in the Foreign Affairs budget before. I do this together with Mr Servaes, and you will hear how we will do it. I am opposed to the idea that cuts in the Development Cooperation budget would be at the expense of this. Quite apart from the fact that, in my opinion, we are discussing this budget next week, apart from the fact that the Court of Auditors has expressed a devastating opinion on that budget, and quite apart from my hope that we will finally apply the Duisenberg method to that budget, I would like to tell you that you should not want to do this through emergency aid. The major problem with emergency aid for refugee shelter is that the UNHCR can hardly plan if it is constantly poured, so when ministers come by again and again, whether it is called Koenders or Ploumen, or someone from another country. Those are the ad hoc contributions, which are excellent for the Netherlands and are very useful for the UNHCR, but which it cannot plan on. It must be a structural form of financing. That is why, in recent years, you have heard me consistently plead in this budget for the CERF, the UN Stabilisation Fund, in which we have also consistently contributed money. I'm sorry you didn't mention that, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u66	That too was supported by us. Mr Ten Broeke refers to the root causes, but also to the total funding. We can, of course, add ad hoc money, including for the UNHCR, but we will need to maintain our investments to counter the flow of refugees in the Middle East. I see that this cabinet cuts 75 million and that we still have no solution to the cost of first-year reception of asylum seekers. This year, the Minister for Development and Cooperation's budget for 800 million will be seized. What substantial sums will the VVD come up with in order to combat the refugee problem and its root causes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u67	The coalition partners have done the following. The spokesmen for the various budgets to which Mr Voordewind refers, i.e. for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, Defence and Foreign Affairs themselves, have been sitting together. We have looked at what is currently to be done in the budgets: what can be done, what can be swept together to add a structural, fundamental and substantial amount? Together, we have come up with a package of measures, indeed, of EUR 35 million, to enable serious regional reception, but also to take concrete steps in the area of diplomacy and security in that area of instability around Europe. Aid and trade are part of this. These are all foreign policy instruments to achieve that goal. Let me go into the plan that Mr Servaes and I want to present today, after we have sat together for that. We have decided to focus on regional reception, which is currently coordinated in practice by UN organisations. We do this by looking at the voluntary contributions to the UN organisations. These voluntary contributions reflect the priorities of our foreign policy, including in the words of the cabinet. After all, the Netherlands is making voluntary contributions to the European Union and I quote 'those UN organisations that are instrumental in the foreign policy of the Netherlands'. For this reason, I will table a motion with Mr Servaes in which, within the voluntary contributions to the UN, we will move in favour of organisations dealing with the regional reception of refugees. The UNHCR is, of course, at the forefront of this. I admit that money has gone from that, but we now have money. This includes the UN Women, to provide security, and UNICEF to provide education. The coalition is also in favour of the structural use of soft loans, soft loans, with trade preferences for countries affected by the disruptive effects of the reception of refugees, such as Jordan and Lebanon. We will ask the Cabinet for an approach that will enable these instruments to be used in a structural but also in a conditional manner. We also ask the Cabinet to contribute, if possible, to an effective European approach with the force of human trafficking and better European border control. Mr Servaes will discuss our intention to release much, much more money for the Matra programme and the focus on the priority countries, the countries where instability is threatening or already prevailing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u68	Have you finished explaining your plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u69	I have now dealt with the elements of the plan. I have to pay a little attention to my speaking time. I think it would be a good idea for colleagues to be able to put an interruption on that right now. At least I assume that's what their interruptions are about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u70	That is what I was hired for, Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u71	All the way to the end of his speech, Mr Ten Broeke said that today 35 million was being allocated to the Matra programme and other projects. I trust that an amendment will be tabled to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u72	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u73	How should I see this in the light of the previous contribution to budgetary treatment? In the past, the VVD has operated extremely critically and has been critical of this programme. The AIV (International Affairs Advisory Council) did not give good reports on this programme either. He actually said that this program has hardly any effect. Now you're gonna shift $35 million. You also mentioned Frontex and the military deployment. Where's the balance? Did you give this to the Labour Party? Does the VVD get anything in return that helps at the external borders? How's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u74	First of all, there is coherence with the UN. I've focused my contribution on the funds. In a moment you will hear some more explanations from Mr Servaes about Matra. The VVD has always been very clear about it. You may not remember that because you were not the spokesperson at the time, but you will have to ask Mr Omtzigt. Two years ago, we argued that the voluntary payments of the Netherlands should focus more strongly on those UN funds that perform well. In the meantime, we will. That's what conditions are created for. We'll follow it. So we are following the pluses and minuses that the Dutch government itself has indicated. On that basis, we were able to make this shift. That is what the UN funds are all about. Then I'll come to Matra. It's true what you're saying. We've been critical about it. In order to increase the impact of the aid programme there, the AIV advocates much more coherence between the Matra Funds, both bilaterally and multilaterally, and between priority and non-priority. The IOB (Inspection on Development Cooperation and Policy Review) also confirmed this later. Let that be exactly what this proposal is about. Mr Servaes will explain this so extensively. I invite you to listen to that. That's where the connection is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u75	I'll definitely listen to it. It is interesting that the VVD has chosen to support this amendment from the Labour Party that we will still be getting, but does not provide a check for the legitimate other wishes, such as strengthening the external borders. I'm not saying this is unimportant, but I'm just wondering where the prioritization went. Where are the additional resources that are also needed, for example to strengthen the external borders? Mr Ten Broeke was right to point that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u76	If necessary, we will have a motion before the external borders, including with regard to the deployment of the armed forces. You have already heard me say that the military must participate much more strongly in, for example, UN blue helmet operations. The Netherlands is now the first to do this in Mali, in a very adequate way. The government has already taken additional steps. That is where you are served, Mr Knops. I think this is a bit of a shame. I appeal to you all today, in the light of this great crisis that will only become greater. I gave the projections. I appeal to all of you to put your shoulders on this. This contains elements about which the VVD has been critical. It contains elements on which the Labour Party has been critical. I hope we're all critical. That is the job of a representative of the people. However, it is also our job to say to the Netherlands: we can do this. We can solve this refugee problem in the region if we want to, and we can add the money to it. That's what we're showing here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u77	I welcome the fact that Mr Ten Broeke is making a warm plea here for more structural funding for the reception of refugees in the region, if I understand correctly. I'd like to hear more about that. The first question I have on this is: is this a motion or an amendment? Mr Ten Broeke is talking about several things, so I am curious to see what is going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u78	Both.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u79	Can Mr Ten Broeke say something about cover? Where does the money come from and at what cost does he want to let this go? We will have to take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u80	Sure. We will also distribute the amendment, as it is customary to do after a first deadline. In the case of the funds which, as far as we are concerned, receive a plus, this is correlated, as I mentioned earlier, with the appreciation and assessment that the government itself has already given to these funds. UNHCR will receive a substantial sum. We speak in our proposal of about 13 million. UN Women is extremely important. That is clear to everyone who has been to those camps and has seen that a lot of women without men arrive there, but with many children. It is important that they can enjoy protection, especially in a camp with 80,000 people. That organization gets something, too, if it's up to us. Finally, UNICEF is also extremely important for teaching.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u81	I take it the amendment is being circulated?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u82	The amendment will be circulated shortly, but only after the first deadline. It's customary, as I said. I hear the chairman saying that we don't have to do this. In any case, we do, I say in the direction of Mr Van der Staaij. I find it a little difficult to talk to both the President and the Interrupt, but I am doing my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u83	I'm asking in terms of technology. It is always useful if the amendment is sent around in advance, because then others can ask specific questions about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u84	We make the proposal first, then the House will see the amendment and there is also a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u85	Mr Ten Broeke now indicates where the money is going. My question was, however, what the money comes from, and he has not yet answered it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u86	There are a number of mins and they are at UNAP, UNESCO and UNDP. UNDP in particular has received a very poor assessment. We have drawn conclusions from that. So the knife cuts both ways. UN funds that do not perform or do not perform properly should also know that this can have consequences, especially in large donors such as the Netherlands. We also see these funds as an expression of our foreign policy and as instruments for it. Because we believe that refugee reception in the region should be a top priority, the money goes to the three goals I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u87	Mr Ten Broeke is absolutely right to say that this is a challenge that you should not be party politics and that we should deal with with all political parties. The VVD spokesperson's statement that we can handle this is a relief to me. I think that's a step forward. I do, however, have a few questions for Mr Ten Broeke, following on from previous speakers. That 35 million is a welcome amount of money. It's found within the budget. How does this relate to the cuts made by the coalition to the budget next year in both emergency and structural development cooperation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u88	When I say we can handle it, I'm talking about the reception in the region. We can handle it in the region. I will give you an example of this later. What I am taking a huge distance from is the statement that we can handle it here in Europe. I have just done so by quoting Mrs Merkel and contradicting what former Chancellor Schmidt said. It would be worth a sweet thing to me if D66 would take care of that, too. I think that there is a huge difference of opinion between Mr Sjoerdsma and myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u89	I give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u90	I'm still waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u91	Do you mean answer the question about the cuts?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u92	I would like to repeat the question. It's about what we achieve with our money. That's crucial. Then I conclude that 35 million is welcome, but this is in stark contrast to a cut of 160 million in emergency aid and 750 million in development cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u93	I think I have just answered Mr Voordewind's question. I'd like to repeat it. I want to get rid of emergency aid when it comes to refugee reception. It has to be structural. Mr Sjoerdsma was with me two years ago in the Beka'a Valley and we also spoke to the UNHCR there. We both heard it at the time, and I'm sure he remembers it, because we've talked about it a lot about saying, "Stop that ad hoc help." Of course, there's always more to it. We did not do much more then, at least not in the way the coalition is offering today, but at that time it became clear to me that we can do no greater pleasure to the UN when it comes to refugee reception than by resolving it through these funds and by giving them structural resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u94	I fully agree with that structural approach, because that was also my conclusion of our joint visit to Lebanon at the time; we need to establish a structural partnership with these countries that goes beyond just 35 million and which is structuralally working on their education and infrastructure. I have also put forward proposals to that effect. I will not say what your party voted at that time, but that was not in favour of any of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u95	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u96	So I'd say a nice start, but let's take it one step further. Let us then see how we can fill in these partnerships even more broadly than we already do, not only with the money you are spending now, but also in the areas of trade, loans and so on. I therefore invite you to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u97	All these elements are in this, but what Mr Sjoerdsma wants is to expand the development programme; he wants to add new partner countries again. Look, we know that "more, more, more." What matters here is that you do more within the possibilities you have in the context of the priorities you set. The priority here is refugee reception and stability in the region. For that we are now going to shift a considerable amount, in my view tenfold of what has been postponed in recent years within the Foreign Affairs budget, that way. I hope and am counting on Mr Sjoerdsma's support for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u98	This also sounds to me as a good and important step towards further strengthening reception in the region. I do have a more technical question about the design. I think it would be preferable, in general terms, to make known plans leading to amendments to the debate so that we can take a quiet look at them and not ask all kinds of informational questions during the debate. I understand that the amendment will be tabled soon. Is there another more comprehensive plan that we can also get? The plan has now been discussed a number of times.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u99	I think it's a very simple approach. For the regional shelter, we're gonna make three pluses. We have already prepared the amendment. It may be sent this way at any time and I will see if I can submit it during the first period. I myself would prefer to discuss the plan with the Chamber first. I have indicated the elements of this. The amendment will be tabled as soon as possible so that Members can read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u100	I understand that Mr Ten Broeke of the VVD and Mr Servaes of the PvdA want to cut into funds for the purposes of the United Nations. Of course that sounds like music to me, but the rest of the story is just worthless. I note that the Netherlands has already spent some 159 million on the reception of refugees. Mr Ten Broeke and Mr Servaes are now holding out the tremendously bloated story that they want to spend another 35 million, but it is and remains a drop in the ocean. These two gentlemen know that, too. I heard them say on television this morning: of course we hope other countries will follow this example. They can hope for anything, but in hope you cannot establish a policy. cherishing hope is not a policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u101	Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u102	I therefore ask Mr Ten Broeke whether he has already been to the capitals of the countries that have caused and blown up all this misery: Riyadh, Abu Dhabi, Manama, Doha, Tehran. Has he come by to ask whether they are going to make huge contributions to the plans he is now presenting to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u103	Firstly, I would like to say to Mr De Roon that if he has better plans with more money for regional care, he will be happy to hear it today. I have never heard anything from the PVV in this area. Secondly, I would like to visit these capitals, but the PVV always makes it impossible for us to exert a great deal of influence on those countries in order to tempt them into certain things, because these countries are constantly being attacked by the PVV with an approach that does not always make it easier to address them. However, we must set priorities; so must you, Mr De Roon. Mr De Roon mentioned Riyadh. When it comes to the UNHCR, we cannot directly blame Saudi Arabia, because that country is in the top ten. The same applies, in my view, to Kuwait, another country which Mr De Roon often criticises. So maybe he can give us some other examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u104	Finally, Mr De Roon, a brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u105	I will have to respond to what Mr Ten Broeke is saying. My reaction is that the countries referred to by Mr Ten Broeke may be doing something, especially in Saudi Arabia, but apparently this is far too little. That should be considerably more if we were to implement this strange plan by Mr Ten Broeke and Mr Servaes. Then there will have to be a lot of money on that side. Apparently, that wasn't asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u106	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u107	That is, therefore, the cherishing of hope and not a real policy. Mr Ten Broeke asked what the PVV plan is. Of course, he knows that: boundaries close. The borders must be closed and controlled. That will stop people from coming this way. As long as they can have the hope that they will come in here, they will continue to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u108	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u109	Even if Mr Ten Broeke's 35 million go towards Lebanon, that will not help. They keep coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u110	Mr De Roon, you have a term of your own.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u111	This was a rather boundless interruption. Hope may not be a policy, but lack of knowledge of facts is certainly not helping us. Mr De Roon is always critical of Saudi Arabia. Much criticism is possible in that country, but it is above the Netherlands when it comes to spending. So as far as that is concerned, Mr De Roon is just wrong. He says the boundaries must be closed. I'm from the border region myself. Perhaps we should take a walk, because I can show him where you can cross the border anywhere without encountering a border post. So you have to do it in a smart way. You have to do it with mobile border controls. That's exactly what this cabinet does. You're gonna have to put in the marshalssee. That's exactly what this cabinet is doing. Those who believe in the way in which the PVV wants to close the borders, especially close their eyes and close our exports. The only ones that stand still are trucks full of flowers, potatoes and other things, from which Mr De Roon and I collect tax money, which we then spend here again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u112	Please continue. And I ask you not to provoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u113	The VVD also looks at the nature of our foreign policy when it comes to budgetary treatment such as today's. We are in favour of a realistic foreign policy. This means, among other things, that, as my group chairman wrote earlier this year, we can divide the world into 'friends', 'uncomfortable friends', 'enemies' and 'opponents' They are not exclusive categories, but it does make a lot of sense. The tricky category of "uncomfortable friends" is the category we discuss most here. We agree on the rest very quickly. Uncomfortable friends make us uncomfortable choices. The problem with supporters of what is commonly referred to as witness politics when it comes to Saudi Arabia is that, for example, Mr De Roon, they are terribly afraid to name the importance of our strategic partnerships with these uncomfortable friends. They are constantly opposed to supplying radar technology to Egypt, while no protester on Tahrir Square but terrorists in Sinai can be fought. But it doesn't matter. They are also opposed to supplying tanks to Indonesia, although that weapon cannot even land in New Guinea and the tanks were delivered by our German neighbours. They also prefer to argue for gender specialists to the Kurds rather than armament. They're terrified of making dirty hands. They prefer to keep a clean conscience and an immaculate soul. A good example of this was last week, when Amnesty International once again addressed us in Saudi Arabia. From this organization we must free the bloggers, attend trials, stop court executions, raise gay rights and put women behind the wheel. And in Yemen, we actually need to change the whole Saudi war course. With all these points, I can still agree with myself. But when our King travels to Saudi Arabia to attend King Abdullah's funeral, those parties suddenly feel uncomfortable and it is better if our King presents a flu, as group leader Pechtold of D66 said. I do not know whether we can encourage Saudi Arabia to do more, as Mr De Roon has just advocated. Although I also agree with a great many of these human rights efforts, I do not think it will work that way. For the VVD, we do not allow human rights to be determined with whom we maintain relations, but that we maintain countries within those relations about human rights. The VVD is opposed to the policy of testimony without means of power, which requires a great result, but which cannot generally be achieved. Tell me the testimony of the canal belt. And I see Mr Grashoff from GroenLinks coming to the interrupting microphone!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u114	The issue of human rights within relations is an excellent Green Left move that we consistently promote. I think we are doing this a little more consistently than Mr Ten Broeke. But let's also see what binds us and what separates us. Does Mr Ten Broeke think that this is being done sufficiently, for example, in Saudi Arabia? Because I haven't heard so much about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u115	The Netherlands is one of the most active countries when it comes to some of those elements that have just been mentioned. I mention, for example, the follow-up of the lawsuit against the bloggers. The Netherlands has talked about Raif Badawi on a regular basis. The Dutch human rights ambassador is one of the few who consistently goes there. The Netherlands has had a huge commitment to the UN Human Rights Council when it comes to Yemen. So, yes, Mr Grashoff, I think we talk to them regularly about human rights within our relationship with this uncomfortable friend.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u116	I think that the issue of discussion is par excellence, whether it is done to a sufficient extent and whether it is done sufficiently intrusively. I think it is very important to urge our Minister to do so more consistently than has been the case up to now. It would be nice if Mr Ten Broeke and I could get a little more together in that. If I understand Mr Ten Broeke correctly, he actually agrees with me in principle that this commitment should be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u117	A brief response, Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u118	I'll get to that later. We don't disagree so much about the stakes. We very much disagree on the way you do it most effectively. If Mr Grashoff says it all has to be more and harder and more often, I say: at your service! My question to Mr Grashoff is then what power we have to enforce it. Is there any prioritization in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u119	You can ask that later when Mr Grashoff is behind the cathedral.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u120	Yes, Mr. Chairman, but this is called provoking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u121	No. And I'd still like to appeal to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u122	Mr President, I think this is entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u123	You'll have the floor in a minute. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, I see everyone thinks it's an entrapment. I would like to appeal to you, however, to keep the interruptions short. Mr Ten Broeke is only the second speaker. Before we suspend for lunch, I would like to give two more speakers the floor. I'm just warning you. For you, too, Mr Ten Broeke, when it comes to replying, that answer must be short and strong. Mr Grashoff, give you a good example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u124	With all due respect, I do not yet experience this debate as a pillar of the hugely long and extensive interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u125	But I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u126	So I don't understand exactly whether the planning might be all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u127	I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u128	I don't. Mr Ten Broeke is actually asking again whether it should always be more. The essence is that we feel that it is not happening enough. I would like to discuss where the priorities should lie and how that could be meaningfully done. I would be extremely pleased if the Minister could elaborate on this. For example, we did not notice enough of it when we visited Saudi Arabia. In a country such as Saudi Arabia, you might want to mention this a little more prominently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u129	This was also a long interruption. For the record, Mr Ten Broeke has been here for almost an hour and has only used 15 minutes of his speaking time. Speaking of long interruptions!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u130	I didn't know I was capable of that; that's special. I do not think there are any major differences in this House as to the importance of human rights. We all share the same view. That is a good thing, because we have the same Constitution. What happens very often in the Netherlands is that debates on human rights turn into debates on who is the most appropriate. The VVD now says that a policy of virtue is not the same as a policy of daring to make choices. I just had that little debate with Mr De Roon. He wants us to appeal to Saudi Arabia to pay more for the reception of refugees. Fine, I'd like to do that. However, we cannot address Saudi Arabia on ten points, but at the same time we do not want to maintain our economic relationship with them, agree an arms embargo and keep Saudi Arabia in the dock. Unfortunately, in a realistic foreign policy, you will have to make choices, I say. Those are uncomfortable choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u131	My question is also about Saudi Arabia and the choices made internationally. I know that Mr Ten Broeke is not a friend of Amnesty International. If he mentions in his contribution what should be done by Amnesty International in relation to the follow-up of trials, the release of bloggers and the position of women in Saudi Arabia, should I draw the conclusion from that list that all this does not have to be done by the VVD? Are those the points on which we shrug our shoulders? On the contrary, I am pleased that the Dutch Government is trying very hard to pay attention to that list of Amnesty International which Mr Ten Broeke just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u132	I have just said that this debate is not really about the importance of human rights, but above all about who is the most good. Mr Van Bommel is now giving a nice illustration of this. I am very much in favour of Amnesty; I have even been a member of it for a long time. The reason I'm not anymore has nothing to do with the fact that I'm doing this... That's why I dare to quote them with my heart. I had a discussion with one of Amnesty's employees this week: you ask me to do this and that, you now have a list of five points, but can you also tell me how you think I can achieve that? Isn't Raif Badawi the best thing about us achieving that? The achievement of the food transport for refugees in Yemen must also be managed in some way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u133	Mr Ten Broeke, you too have a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u134	Building on Mr Ten Broeke's contribution, he also says with regard to Saudi Arabia: I cannot do it all, we have to make choices. What does he choose not to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u135	That's the uncomfortable choice that comes with it. At the moment, my choice would be to make every effort to give maximum priority to the humanitarian emergency in Yemen. Certainly Saudi Arabia, along with other countries, has more than average influence on the access of humanitarian goods to those who are currently victims of this war in Yemen. That's where my priority would be right now. Then I see all the inconvenience in the room, but that's because you don't want to make choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u136	This cannot be done, Mr Ten Broeke. I understand that Mr Van Bommel is walking to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u137	Now Mr Ten Broeke says that we do not make choices. I ask him what choice he himself makes, because he says: some things do and some things don't. And now we're being blamed for not making choices. I ask him what choice he makes with regard to Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u138	I just reported it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u139	What things do you not want to do from the list you list yourself? That was the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u140	I suggest that you proceed, Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u141	Saudi Arabia is not the only example. Another significant example was recently seen in China. Our king went to China. That is, he went there first on vacation with his daughters and oh, oh, oh, there went the reputation of Dutch as a guide country. The King on vacation, that made him immediately lose his authority, even before he met the leader of the unfree world. The Peace Palace didn't have to be dismantled yet. But what happened? The King rematched his critics and used the word "human rights" in the presence of President Xi, and then again. In the canal belt you could hear the corks pop. The discharge was total. Finally the moral high ground again. Washed away was that beer with Putin, because it was said. I told you, there are no differences in this house about the importance of human rights. It's always about whether you're a good person, and that we have to make choices. I have just shown Mr Van Bommel that I dare to make that choice. Take the debate on energy dependency, also such a debate in which it is difficult to make choices. We don't want shale gas, we don't want Russian gas, we don't want Groningen gas. We don't want nuclear power stations, we don't want coal power stations. Some of us do not want windmills on land, others do not want windmills at sea. But we all want to take a 15-minute shower. Take military interventions. We do not want to renew our fighter jets, but we must force no-fly zones everywhere. Until we find out you're gonna have to bomb positions first. 'Cause that's not right, of course. The VVD believes in a realistic foreign policy. Realistic also means that policy cannot always be consistent. Mr Grashoff, it is always a question of finding solutions that are best suited to our interests and the margins of opportunity. Take an example of an up-to-date issue in European foreign policy, which the VVD believes is desirable. I am talking about consumer information. The VVD believes in fair and transparent consumer information, even when it comes to the origin of products in our shelves. Last week, the European Commission announced that it would soon publish guidelines on the labelling of Israeli products. I have looked at the conflict areas in which the European Commission has recently published press releases. I suggest that the government should now work on the correct labelling of products coming from all these areas. Because the consumer has a right to know that some tomatoes come from the occupied Western Sahara and not from Morocco. Mr Van Bommel agrees with me. That some Helloumikases come from occupied Cyprus and not from Turkey. That that beautiful woolen sweater by Hans Spekman is from Tibet and not from China. That bottle of vodka comes from Crimea and not from Russia. And soon perhaps the cava from Catalonia and not from Spain. I ask the Minister, at European level, to call for guidelines for products from all conflict zones, at least from all areas occupied, illegally annexed or otherwise disputed, because, as the Minister himself correctly stated, consumers have the right to make an informed choice when purchasing their products. So they have the right to know whether a product comes from an occupied, disputed area, as the Minister also believes they have the right to know whether the wine comes from the Golan Heights; l'chaim. The Netherlands can't do everything, the EU can't do everything, but some things we can and we can do better. Today is a great opportunity to make that choice in the framework of the 2016 Foreign Affairs budget and to give a start of an answer to the biggest challenge facing the Netherlands and the European continent. I have indicated the priorities and choices of the VVD and what we are doing together with the PvdA to do more than just appoint the refugee issue. I ask the Minister and other parties in this Chamber to join us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u142	I am glad to be able to put a question to Mr Ten Broeke at the end of the evaluation of the foreign policy of political parties in the Netherlands and also a bit of that of the government. I am particularly concerned about the last part of his speech before he came to the conclusion. I agree with Mr Ten Broeke. I'd like to support him. For some time now, the SP has been in favour of proper labelling of products from Western Sahara, but also from other areas, where the UN believes that there is occupation, oppression or something else. I would like to ask Mr Ten Broeke whether he is making a specific proposal on this point. I'd like to file that with him. I know that the Dutch Government tends to do the same. It is a bit in line with the existing policy, but I think that together we can provide a majority. Is there going to be a specific proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u143	The answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u144	Through the list, the VVD already indicates how rich this plan is, because of course the European Commission is not going to do this. If what Mr Ten Broeke is proposing does not happen, then the simple question is what he is going to do to reverse this measure through the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u145	Nothing. We have always seen this measure in the context of consumer information. I have always said that I do not think this is a contribution to the peace process and that, in this respect, there is, to a certain extent, an advance on the final limits to be set during negotiations. There are therefore some drawbacks, but the basic argument that this is about consumer information is correct. I can't deny that, and I can't argue with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u146	Then that ridicule and the list of just a little gratuitous. Mr Ten Broeke commissioned the cabinet, but he said at the same time: don't worry, because I'm not going to bite. I won't do anything if those other areas aren't labelled either. Then what's his comment worth?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u147	Let's see how far we can get. I'm in favour of fair consumer information. If this can be done by labelling for one area, it may in any case be possible to do so for more areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u148	As an irony, I found the story of Mr Ten Broeke strong, but as an explanation of reality I found it weaker. Does he really believe that it is the intention of these measures to provide consumer information?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u149	I'd like to assume that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u150	Does it not surprise Mr Ten Broeke that so few consumers make themselves known and that on the other hand there is so much pressure from organisations to say for political reasons: how can we boost, push more action in the sphere of boycott and harass Israel rather than help Palestinians in a good way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u151	I have already mentioned the objections. That's why I'm very much in favour of non-discrimination. By the way, it has been requested by consumer groups and producers, but let us keep it in the domain where it belongs. That is not the Middle East peace process, it is consumer information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u152	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of my group, I would like to express my condolences to the victims and survivors of the attacks in Paris, the attacks earlier in Lebanon and the attacks that preceded them. It is clear that these attacks have only been committed in order to sow terror and in this case also against completely innocent citizens. The next question is what political consequences are being taken. Of course there will be a debate on this tomorrow, but it will also be discussed today. The question is how to protect our government from the terrorists of the Islamic State. There is much at stake, namely our rule of law and our freedom, and the reflex is similar. Some are calling for all borders to be closed, and others, for example, asked why we need to invest more in security last week in the defence budget, because additional money for security and defence is not the solution. Our prime minister says he's at war. He's staying abroad right now. I wonder what kind of war we'll be in if the Prime Minister is abroad, but all right. If what the Prime Minister says is true, namely that we are at war, it should also be accompanied by the corresponding measures. Every effort must then be made to protect the security of our citizens. Changes and threats in the world are rapidly increasing. The reaction of the cabinet is that it is complicated and that it does not really want to choose a position yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u153	I thought we had this little war debate behind us. I also asked a question about it, but what is the CDA's view? Mr Knops rightly points out that at least I assume that this is the case when the Prime Minister is abroad. He left after the attacks and after his remarks about the war. Is the Netherlands at war as far as the CDA Group is concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u154	I mention it, and I will go into it in my speech, but I understand from the President that I can give a brief answer to Mr Van Bommel's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u155	You are asking for his views, but Mr Knops has just begun his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u156	Perhaps it is right that Mr Van Bommel should stop the question. I'd be happy to answer him, but in part...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u157	Can you do that, Mr Van Bommel?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u158	Yes, I can make a lot of money. That is almost limitless, but Mr Knops starts with it towards the cabinet. Then it's on the table and it's hanging over the market. I'd like a cliffhanger like that in my debate. But then I would also like Mr Knops...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u159	I propose that Mr Knops continue with his speech. If he doesn't go into it later, you may ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u160	Of course, it's not weird that I brought up Paris. So did Mr Van Bommel. Quite rightly, because I think it is very good that we are paying attention to this. Everyone chooses their own words for this, I am sure in the direction of Mr Van Bommel. I'll get back to you in a minute. The world has changed. After the fall of the Berlin Wall, we thought peace had broken out. That era ended at 9/11. After that, there was an economic crisis, an Arab Spring, chaos, instability, and conflict potential grew head-on. The Foreign Minister is right to talk about tectonic plates shifting. Economic, political and military power is shifting and we are moving towards a multipolar world. Instead of Fukuyama's End of History, we see a return to history. We are talking about emerging nationalism, autocracy, and we are seeing the advance of radical Islam that goes back to the Middle Ages. Iraq, Syria, Yemen and parts of Afghanistan have again fallen into the hands of the Taliban. There are cross-border effects such as terrorism with large migratory flows. Panels shift, regimes fall over, and the entire geopolitical map of the Middle East shakes on its foundations. It is precisely in such an era, which does not seem reversible for the time being, that you have no choice but to become more active in the foreign sphere, and preferably within the European Union, I would add. This means investing more in security, investing more in development and investing more in diplomacy. It has to be, not because it is one of the policy options, but because it is pure necessity. Take Syria now. While Hollande declares war on IS, Rutte repeats it, and the French Air Force is bombing at the nerve centre of ISIS in Raqqa, the cabinet continues to hesitate about the deployment of F-16s over Syria and new arguments are always on the table not to make a decision. The debate with Mr Ten Broeke already made it clear that the coalition is divided on this point. The Secretary of Defense says we can't wait until midnight, and we need to make a decision quickly. However, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is taking all the time he needs. The Prime Minister stated that the Netherlands is at war with IS. How long will the Foreign Minister remain hesitant? In July next year we will be relieved by the Belgians. I would like to hear a response from the Minister on this point, also in the light of the Prime Minister's statements. Meanwhile, the terror continues. This proved to be the case yesterday when Mr Omtzitt received the Syrian Orthodox bishop of Homs and Hama. In an intrusive meeting, the bishop called for help for threatened Christians. ISIS is less than ten kilometres from the Christian town of Sadad. Again, once again, genocide threatens. What's the government's reaction? International aid through NGOs hardly reaches vulnerable minorities. Is the Minister prepared, together with his colleague for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, to set up, like Germany, a structural humanitarian and development programme for Armenian displaced persons and refugees from Syria and Iraq?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u161	Was this part of Mr Knops' speech on the war?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u162	There's gonna be more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u163	Was this what Mr Knops wanted to say about the use of the term 'war' and its interpretation? He called the French President Hollande and said that what the President had said was repeated by Rutte. He said the Secretary of State is not doing anything. Is that what Mr Knops wanted to say about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u164	No, this wasn't it. I've paraphrased and quoted. I would say, Mr President, let Mr Van Bommel ask his question, otherwise he will have to come to the interrupting microphone three more times.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u165	I'd be happy to do that, though. At the beginning of his speech, Mr Knops actually took the Prime Minister's measure by saying that he is going abroad when he said earlier: it is war. Later in his speech, Mr Knops nuded that when he talked about: in war with ISIS. He is referring to Iraq and Syria. What is it now about the CDA? Mr Knops cannot blame the Prime Minister, and then simply join the position of the Dutch Government? That would be weird, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u166	I understand Mr Van Bommel's question. The Prime Minister used the words he used. It wasn't the CDA's words. I responded to those words. My question now, and in tomorrow's debate, is the following. What are the implications of these words by the Prime Minister for the conduct of the cabinet? I think that is a perfectly correct question. I am now asking the Foreign Minister the same question. There is no doubt that this question will come on the table tomorrow when we debate it with the Prime Minister. The words the Prime Minister used are big words. Mr Van Bommel will agree with me. What are the consequences for the policy that links the cabinet to those words?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u167	They are indeed big words. I don't agree. I don't think the Netherlands is at war. We do contribute to the war in Iraq. That's something else. If I were to agree with the Prime Minister's words, I would now, like Mr Knops, have denounced the Prime Minister leaving the country while the Netherlands is at war. So does Mr Knops agree with what the Foreign Minister said about this, namely that the term 'war', used in connection with the events in Paris, should be understood in particular symbolically? Is that the view of Mr Knops?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u168	I am now being asked to choose a position between cabinet ministers. The Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister; they have all taken positions. That will be discussed tomorrow. My story about this is very simple: when you speak of war, there are certain consequences. There is no denying that we are fighting against IS. We have not done so since last weekend, I say to Mr Van Bommel, because I think we have done so before. If these words are used, this naturally raises the question in Parliament too, what does that mean? At least that raises the question in my group. Does that mean that the Netherlands will be more committed and more actively involved, or that it will make other choices? All this is now hanging over the market. Several cabinet members have expressed differing views on this matter. I think it would be a good idea to clarify that very quickly. Our group has previously advocated safe ports in Iraq, Syria and Libya. It is, of course, extremely difficult to create them in Syria at the moment. What opportunities does the Minister see, like the Germans, to create more security for refugees in Afghanistan, also because NATO is still there, and we see more and more people coming from Afghanistan coming this way? We must not let go of the search for safe ports, for the creation of safe areas. A political solution for Syria is necessary, but unfortunately still far away, despite the steps that have been taken. As long as that is so, ISIS will have to be combated, preferably together with the Russians, who are constantly sliding the panels, and now suddenly seem to be on another side. Does the Minister also see possibilities for this? Dubious is also the role of the wealthy Arab Gulf states, as has already been said. They are sponsoring the jihad in Syria, but they do not want to bear the consequences, namely the reception of refugees as a result. Saudi Arabia has 100,000 empty tents ready, with air conditioning and all, to house refugees. But what do they do? Keep the border closed, so the streams go west. Then one offers to build 200 mosques in Germany. That's not supposed to happen, is it? Our group wants pressure to be put on those Member States to shoulder their responsibilities. At the moment, Europe is doing too little. Europe is under pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u169	Support for Mr Knops on that last point. I'm trying to figure out where he is in his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u170	Halfway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u171	Yeah, halfway, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u172	He's got five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u173	Look, I'm gonna help him out a little bit. I have a question about those safe ports. Mr Knops rightly concludes that the creation of safe ports in Syria is currently difficult, if not impossible. However, this is difficult to reconcile with the plea that his group leader is constantly making to send ground troops to Syria. Can Mr Knops explain exactly how these two things relate to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u174	Good question. I have said that it is difficult, not impossible, but that we must continue to strive for it. Mr Servaes cannot disagree with me. At the end of the day, my group chairman said: 'This means that, as the Netherlands too, it is not only the Netherlands that is prepared to create the conditions under which safe ports can be really safe ports.' That means, indeed, that you must also be prepared to send ground troops, then the conditions must be right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u175	So that means two things. So the CDA is not in favour of sending ground troops at all. So it advocates nothing more than the cabinet is doing now. That is an important observation. If you want to create good conditions, should Mr Knops agree with me that you need a political solution to the civil war in Syria? Without this political solution, it is impossible to create safe ports.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u176	Mr Servaes is now going very quickly by saying that this is the same thing as the cabinet wants. That is not the case. Unlike the cabinet, which keeps saying that we must create political solutions because otherwise there is nothing we can do, which has some kind of diligence in it, we have argued that there are also situations where you should do so. You cannot just wait, I say to Mr Servaes, until there is a political solution. After all, in the meantime, the battle on the ground continues. IS is developing and being barely reduced. What's that all about? Because the West doesn't act united in that. Of course, you can choose the position that you want to have all that certainty first and you only perform afterwards, but that is not what the CDA Group wants. I'll just say right away that we don't want to go down there without a bigger plan. But the political will to act in general there too, and not only here in the Netherlands, as I say to other political groups in order to ensure stability, should be something that both the PvdA and our group have.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u177	I put a very clear question to the CDA about the substance of this party's argument, which says that we should go there with people. I just don't even hear the beginning of a proposal how that's gonna look.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u178	I really think Mr Servaes is saying it too simple by saying 'we should go there'. We didn't say that at all. We have said: we must be prepared, even as the Netherlands, not to think that the problem will solve itself if we all stay here and throw bombs alone; that will not ultimately be the solution. I agree with Mr Servaes that a political solution must be found, but it can sometimes come about under pressure. That pressure means taking military action where necessary and doing something about the circumstances in which all those people are there, bringing people to Europe. You can say a hundred times what you can't do. You can choose that position, but you can also say: if there is a possibility, you have to do everything you can to make that possible. I get the question; it's a fair question. I'm not going to say we have to go there and we're going there tomorrow with so many people. I'm not gonna say that here. Of course not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u179	But that's what the chairman of the group from the CDA says. Only yesterday he said that was criticism of the cabinet, the same criticism that Mr Knops now has that the Prime Minister, the cabinet, declared us at war. According to the chairman of the group of the CDA, this includes actions. One of the actions he mentioned was the sending of Dutch ground forces. Now Mr Knops says: no, but that is an idea, a possibility, an intention. What more should Mr Knops' cabinet do about action?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u180	What my group chairman and I quite rightly point out is that the Prime Minister is speaking, but that there are no consequences. We did not say that yesterday, but before. Mr Sjoerdsma has seen the conflict developing. We have said before that we must be prepared to send troops there, which is a mental issue, including in Parliament. Mr Sjoerdsma should not think that we only do this as the Netherlands. Let me say again: we will have to do so internationally. We have already expressed our support for the trainers, the idea of the peshmerga, in which we are active in Iraq. We'll have to do that in other places. If we are not prepared to do so at the end of Europe, but also at the same time as us as the Netherlands, as we are debating here in the Dutch Parliament, then we will miss the opportunity to combat ISIS effectively and at the same time provide care for people who need this protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u181	In this case, I think it is more the CDA that does not have any consequences for the words. I would just like to mention a few other proposals made by the CDA. There should be safe ports not only in Syria, but also in Libya and Iraq. We should also be prepared to do so. I am also prepared to go to great lengths to save people, but that is not what the CDA group chairman said. It would be a good thing for Mr Knops to be more precise. The chairman of the group of the CDA made concrete proposals and actually wanted the cabinet to give effect to them. Now that things are getting more complicated and the situation turns out to be more complicated than the CDA had thought and colleagues are asking how exactly is it going to be in Syria's wasp nest? That's a very fair question, Mr Knops says he doesn't really know that. With that he creates false hope for the people who would love to do something but do not know how.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u182	This is total bullshit; I'm sorry to have to say it. I'm just getting blamed for not playing the armchair general and for having to draw up the mission where we're going. I was also blamed by the D66 group: we should not do that in Parliament. We then set out a goal which the cabinet did not even want to think about. For the sake of clarity, it is not a literal objective, but a political objective. I saw Mr Sjoerdsma didn't understand me, so I'm gonna give you a few details. This cabinet has not even reached the decision to intervene in Syria. That is, of course, our reaction. I have just said in an interrupting debate with Mr Ten Broeke that there is a great deal of talk and that we must wait for a political solution, but every day that we are told here that we need to talk and that we need to wait for a political solution, people become victims of things that perhaps we do not want to talk about here but they do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u183	When you call "safe ports, safe ports," you actually make a proposal for military intervention. After all, Mr Knops knows as well as anyone else here that safe ports can only be protected from air and ground through a no-fly zone and air operations. Are you actually asking the Dutch Government to propose this in an international context or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u184	This is going to be a very special debate. One time I am attacked because I make concrete proposals, the other time I am seen as chair general and now Mr Van Bommel comes up with another proposal. I ask the Foreign Minister what I have asked him, namely: how does he judge the Prime Minister's statements and what consequences does he have? In the opinion of our group, you cannot say on the one hand that we are at war and on the other hand that we are only talking about a political solution. I don't think that can be the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u185	I think this was a response to a previous interruption. I'm asking about the safe ports of the CDA. The CDA is the only party in the Lower House to come forward with the concrete proposal for safe ports. There's military action linked to that. You are not proposing this in a motion that the Chamber can say yes or no to. At the very least, ask the government to propose this internationally. Otherwise, this really turns out to be only for domestic consumption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u186	That is clearly not the case, because I am not leaving any test balloons on this. I also know, of course, that there are a number of military conditions before you can set up a safe harbour; of course, because that can't just happen. You cannot say that we decide to set up a safe harbour without the military conditions being created for it. That is precisely the proposal we have made: cabinet, look at it; think about it if that is possible. However, this cabinet has not even reached a decision on whether or not to bomb in Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u187	Doesn't Mr Knops agree with me a little bit that he is standing here saying that he wants to use ground troops in a war that is still about the crown of Dante's hell and that he blames the coalition for doing exactly what its constitutional task is, namely doing the analysis but leaving it to the government to decide what choice it is making? Mr Knops makes a much more far-reaching proposal and comes to the same conclusion. So I would like him to consider reflecting on the question he has just asked me. That question concerns the background to the fact that Mr Knops is talking about the deployment of ground troops.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u188	This would mean that, if the cabinet itself announces caveats about its own plans, I should not be allowed to talk about them in Iraq, not in Syria, according to Mr Ten Broeke. I think you can talk about anything in the Chamber; I'm talking about it now. I didn't tell you to send troops tomorrow. I said that we think that the concept of safe ports should be looked at more closely, because you cannot win a conflict from the sky alone, and you cannot do it politically alone. Mr Ten Broeke will agree with me on that. If we were to decide what some people in this Chamber want, namely not to bomb in Iraq either, I would like to mention just one example: do we agree very quickly that this would provide a free haven for everything that is terrorism and what IS? That can't be the intention, can it, Mr Ten Broeke? Then it makes sense for us to think about what other possibilities there are for dealing with the problems there. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u189	Finally, Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u190	Mr. Knops is a former military officer. I consider Mr Knops to be extremely high on the issue of military assessments. He served himself in Iraq, where we've had no-fly zones. He knows more than anyone what it takes to force no-fly zones and even use ground troops for safe ports. I would like to suggest to his group chairman Mr Voorhoeve's book. That takes huge assumptions. You have to think very deeply about that. Then that statement is very easy if you do nothing but what other groups are doing here, namely to do the analysis and then ask the cabinet to do something with that analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u191	That's exactly what I'm asking. The fact that I'm talking about it, that I call it, is apparently very loaded. There are now all kinds of reactions about safe ports like Srebrenica and you name it. Mr Ten Broeke knows as well as I do that a number of basic conditions have not been fulfilled there. I am extremely careful to use this. I am concerned with the question that lies behind this: whether we in the Netherlands are prepared to take that step at the end of the day. I believe that such an important issue that can contribute to a solution should be discussed here. Of course, this requires a number of political and military conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u192	Could Mr Knops take the Chamber along the considerations that escaped his group chairman yesterday, because I find it interesting to hear how he thinks he can get on these ground troops? In my view, this is an extremely far-reaching consequence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u193	It is a far-reaching consequence and it evokes many emotions. I understand that. I am not saying that the cabinet should do this tomorrow, but I am asking for it to be taken with us; we will decide on it in the end. I give this signal to the cabinet, because it is a concept for the overall solution for this area that can work, provided it is properly implemented. Mr Ten Broeke and others have asked where and how exactly this should be done. In spite of my background, I am not going to take a position here, play the armchair general or point out how to do it. I do think that the concept and thinking should continue. The cabinet must use it, including internationally, to make this possible. We speak now in the Dutch Parliament, but the Netherlands never does these things alone, just as Dutch F-16s are not going to bomb Raqqa.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u194	I suggest you continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u195	Then there's the domestic consequences. The AIVD warns of salafism. The question is, what does the cabinet do with this? The Polters motion is clear: the cabinet should explicitly distance itself from jihadi and political salafism. What does the Secretary of State do with that? The foreign financing of salafistic mosques from non-free countries must be restricted. France would also have decided to tackle the money flow from Saudi Arabia and Qatar. We think that is perfectly understandable and right. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Is he prepared to draw up a list of non-free countries and enter into talks with them? The CDA Group supports the strengthening of diplomacy. It is precisely at this time that more diplomatic capacity is needed. I refer in this connection to the Van Ojik motion. However, developments call for more; they call for vision, decisiveness and a more robust foreign policy. The Minister announced when he took office that he would sail sharply to the wind. He could not, of course, predict what would happen afterwards, but I would ask him to reflect on that statement in the light of the current situation. My group believes that the Netherlands should pursue a more assertive and self-conscious foreign policy. Not because this is a choice, but because it is essential. Others now determine the world order more and there is a multipolar world. The UN is under great pressure; this has been discussed before in the debate. The head of the UN Human Rights Council is a Saudi, and Burundi, a member of the same Human Rights Council, is now on the verge of civil war. So what is the response of the UN? The Arab Spring, celebrated by many in this Chamber as well, is degenerate into chaos. Not because the West is responsible for this, but because in most of these countries there are intolerant regimes rising up, dissenters and Christians are being murdered on a large scale and there are direct proxy wars. My group calls on the Minister to take a more explicit stance and to act against the epidemic of violence by IS and related terrorist organisations. Acknowledging that radical Islam is a totalitarian violent ideology that poses the greatest threat to the free West. What communism was in the Cold War is radical Islam now. After Paris, the question is whether Europe will now be more committed to its security. The United States is still largely responsible for European security. The transatlantic divide has widened. The Wales agreements are not being complied with; this was also raised last week. How does the Foreign Minister feel about this, in the light of the Prime Minister's statements? There's a lot of pressure on employability. Mr Ten Broeke spoke just now about more marechaussee. I totally agree with him, but where's the money that goes with that? There's been too little delivery. I've been notified by the Defense Department again that so many cases have to be handled with a few people. We can't do it anymore; the Marechaussee is under great pressure. The EU is a payer, but not a player. She's good at soft power, good for trade and investment, she gives a lot of development aid and neighborhood money if it's this coalition, she's gonna get a little bit more than that, but eventually she's gonna need a more robust CSDP. The new High Commissioner will take his time until next year, but we think it should be speeded up. Even the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Timmermans, no longer fully believes it. How does the Foreign Minister view the former Foreign Minister's recent statement in the light of the future of Europe? In Turkey, the rule of law is broken down step by step and freedom of the press is restricted. Is it true that in three weeks the Turkish state has taken over two television channels, closed two newspapers and as many as 17 TV channels and arrested several journalists? How does the Minister assess the abuses observed by the OSCE in the recent elections? What is left of democracy? There is increasing evidence of Turkey's support for jihadists in Syria. Weapons, ammunition, warriors: we have asked numerous parliamentary questions about it, and I must honestly say that I am disappointed in the Minister's answers. There is not even a beginning of an answer, except that the Minister does not know if it is. Turkey is an ally and at the same time the country is on the side of the opposing party. That can't be true. Turkey opens two cranes wide: for jihadists to Syria and back and for migrant flows to Europe. And we get to mop up. I don't think this is a good partnership. The Israeli-Palestinian conflict. It is worrying that the MOVP, the Middle East Peace Process, has stalled. The new spiral of violence must be broken: back to the negotiating table. We appeal to both sides, Israel, in terms of settlements, but also to the Palestinian Authority. Our group is in favour of a greater role for the EU. What about Mogherini's strategy? Finally, I agree with what Mr Van Bommel said about the Epafras Foundation. He's cut short on subsidies, but he's doing important work. I would ask the Minister to look again at the possibilities for a new set-up of funding for this foundation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u196	Mr. Chairman. A football match, a restaurant and a concert: how sick do you have to be to kill people, who enjoy these simple, beautiful things in life? How fucked up do you have to be if you're gonna let a plane full of innocent Russian tourists splash into the air? How hateful should you be when you set off a bomb in the middle of Beirut, the capital of the country that offers more than any other country so hospitable shelter to Syrian refugees? These are questions to which we are again trying to find an answer. We also wonder how safe we are in our own country, in our own city and in our own neighbourhood. And we wonder how we can put an end to the hyperextremism of ISIS and similar fanatics. Against barbarism you can only put civilization, says one. We have to wipe them out with root and branch, says the other. We politicians and foreign spokesmen are supposed to choose. If the Labour Party is suddenly ready to bomb Syria, journalists are not asking me 24 hours after the attack. Of course, after Paris, I feel the anger that everyone feels. Like others, I want to do something more than just express that anger. A choice between declaring the next "war on terror" and, above all, continuing to live our lives is a false one. We need to find the right combination. We must stand up for the lighting ideals of Voltaire, but also have the fighting skills of De Gaulle. We must have the coolness to make the right analyses, to play the geopolitical chess game properly, and at the same time the willingness to compete, provided the pieces are good. If, after the drama in Paris, there is still a silver lining at all, it may be that sense of urgency among the world's powers. The political will among regional players has grown. At last, the US and Russia, Turkey, Iran and Saudi Arabia seem to be growing together. Too slowly and for the time being, especially in words, without guaranteeing that it will lead to a real agreement for the future of Syria, but the movement is unmistakable and must be fully supported. I would like to hear from the Minister how he points out these latest developments and how he estimates the chances of a political breakthrough. Paris came as a shock, but not as a surprise. The world is changing rapidly, with new threats at the borders of Europe. We live in a world in which the cooperation so carefully built up by our parents and grandparents is under pressure. It is a world that confronts us in real time through traditional and social media with the raw misery of war, with oppression, with unprecedented flows of refugees. In that world, at this time, you can do two things: fall back on national reflexes or bet on a much more active and values-driven foreign policy. It is clear that the Labour Party chooses the latter. There's got to be a lot of ambition on top. Together with others, we need to show extra commitment on the whole spectrum of foreign policy: diplomacy, defence, aid and trade. We must not only combat the symptoms, but also address the root causes of the various crises. We should not rely on the false stability of authoritarian leaders, but we should be prepared to invest in people's perspective and in society's resilience. We do that from the core idea that, if the world around us is going well, we are also doing well; and unfortunately the other way around. This must be a foreign policy of values and of deeds, and a balanced combination of realpolitik and ideal politics, with the heart and the head. In order for the EU to exert influence in the world, it will first have to show itself to be responsible in our immediate surroundings. This is what Federica Mogherini said shortly after she became a High Representative of the European Union. I agree with her. We are under the spell of the ring: of the ring of conflict and instability at the European external borders; of the enormous migratory flows as a result, which we are now faced with; of the shaky ceasefire in Ukraine; of the fight against ISIS; of the vacuum of power in Libya; but also of the war in Yemen, of the war in Mali and of repression in Eritrea. These are complex conflicts with often much more complex backgrounds. They call for a much more active foreign policy, focusing primarily on the neighbouring regions, and on a commitment in all areas of foreign policy at the same time and in coherence. The PvdA welcomes the additional diplomatic capacity deployed in Eastern Europe, the Middle East and North Africa thanks to the implementation of the Van Ojik motion. Nor can it be excluded that more often than before, our willingness to contribute to the military in those regions will be called upon to do so. We are already a major donor, but more support is needed for the countries on the front line that are affected by migration flows or the risk of destabilisation by extremists. Mr Ten Broeke has already mentioned a shift in our contributions to the UN funds towards additional support for refugees in general, and to women and children in particular. Together, we are proposing a shift within the UN funds in favour of precisely these matters. Like him, I advocate offering soft loans, soft loans, and trade preferences to middle-income countries such as Lebanon and Jordan, to help them adjust their economic structure. I realise that these issues are at the crossroads of Foreign Affairs and BuHa-OS, which will be discussed next week. However, this Minister, with his background, should be able to respond to these proposals. The Nobel Peace Prize will be awarded this year to the National Dialogue Quartet from Tunisia, which played a crucial role in the democratic transition of that country. This is a proper recognition for Tunisia, but also for the important contribution civil society can make. Unfortunately, we can also see that the Arab Spring, which started exactly five years ago in that same Tunisia, has been much less successful elsewhere in the region, often where civil society organisations have been given no or much less space. Well-organised political parties and free media also play a key role in success or failure. These lessons can also be drawn from the recent AIV and IOB reports. Today, the PvdA calls for a more urgent and ambitious approach to strengthening the social resilience of countries in the ring around Europe, with the type of projects with which our country has gained so much experience under the various Matra programmes, but also on the basis of the lessons that recent evaluations offer us. We propose to add to the present Matra programme, to give more ambition and to convert it into a fund for regional partnership. It is a new and more ambitious fund for support for democratic development, social initiatives, development of the rule of law and institutional strengthening in the ring around Europe. The current Matra programmes deal with this, but there will be more resources. There will be more emphasis on the independent role of NGOs, which are increasingly under pressure in many countries, but also on training and assistance from government to government. I ask the Minister to examine this proposal for a Dutch fund and regional partnerships, which is also supported by the VVD Group. I believe that the amendment has now been circulated. I understand that colleagues wanted to receive this in good time. I would also like to make a motion on this point in the second term. At a time when the realpolitik is in danger of overcoming idealism, the PvdA advocates that the fight for human rights remains the cornerstone of Dutch foreign policy. Fortunately, we are seeing a number of positive developments in this respect. I'll give you three. Firstly, we welcome the fact that our proposal to lift the Human Rights Fund, which we did earlier this year in the human rights briefing, has now been accepted in the State Department budget. Thank you very much for that. Secondly, I would like to express my appreciation for the Minister's commitment to a war crimes investigation in Yemen. As disappointing as the outcome of that process was, it is good that this minister dared to stick his neck out. I also found his comment encouraging in the consultation of a week or two ago, namely that such action is not at the expense of our political strength, of our interests, but rather of ensuring that you are heard and given more opportunities. Third, I like to call the king. He's just been mentioned. Last year we questioned his beer with Putin in Sochi, but the way he appointed human rights in China deserves a compliment. That is how it can be done and we like to see it. This has nothing to do with virtues or wrongs, but with the use of the existing possibilities. They've been used now. It would be good if they were used more often in this way. However, we remain keen on the persistence of a number of difficult dossiers in which geopolitical and economic interests on the one hand and important values and principles on the other touch each other. Of course, the fact that these two collide occasionally isn't news. It is important, however, to state your limits very clearly and to stand up for the issues that really matter. I would also like to mention three of them. First of all, I call Saudi Arabia. The role it plays in the regional proxy wars is as worrying as the human rights violations in the country itself. The blogger Badawi sentenced to whip is a symbol of so many other, much less known victims. The EU is now present in court cases, but does not share the findings of those trials with the accused or his lawyers, let alone confronting the Saudi authorities. Amnesty International writes about this in the recent report Speaking is silver, silence is wrong. I'm asking the Minister why this isn't happening. Why don't we raise these issues now that we're monitoring them? What is the Minister's response to the findings of this Amnesty report? I also mention the situation in Belarus, where President Lukashenko was recently re-elected for the fifth time. Although he released a number of political prisoners, they were not allowed to run for election. Election observers also question the manner in which the votes were counted. What was the reaction of the international community? To suspend sanctions for a number of Belarusians close to the regime. What kind of political signal is that? I understand that Minsk can be an interesting place for dialogue with the Russians, but it should not be at the expense of the courageous human rights defenders who have fought their battles all these years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u197	The cesorship between the cubes was so short that I was too late to ask about Saudi Arabia. Mr Servaes is aware of the fact that the United Kingdom has said that there will be no arms supplies unless there is an independent investigation. What is the view of the PvdA Group on this point? Can it imagine what the United Kingdom is doing with Saudi Arabia, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u198	I think I have to correct Mr Knops anyway. I fear, and this is a particularly painful observation, that the United Kingdom was one of the countries that was obstructing the creation of independent research. We would have liked to have seen a somewhat more principled stance by the United Kingdom and other countries on this issue. Mr Knops knows my views on arms trade, I think. We are very reluctant to do so. As soon as there is any chance that it will be used for human rights violations or regional wars, we will stop any proposal for arms exports.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u199	We now have experience with that. I believe that these examples have already been mentioned by Mr Ten Broeke. This is not just about the Netherlands or the United Kingdom, but about European countries in general supplying Saudi Arabia. Many weapons used there come from Europe. What is the view of the PvdA on this point, namely when it comes to a European line in export restrictions in these countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u200	That is a bad thing, because earlier this year I submitted an own-initiative paper together with Mr Sjoerdsma, whom I now see on the microphone. The key point of this was that there cannot be such large differences between Member States in the area of arms exports, whereas we should check them all against human rights violations and regional conflicts. We have made a number of proposals on how to do this better. You can imagine that the direction for improvement is clear to me, namely less arms exports and much more stringent testing against the common criteria that Europe has for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u201	I will continue on this subject because Prime Minister Cameron has indeed threatened Saudi Arabia with an arms embargo. That was, of course, a 180 degree twist in relation to his country's previous position, but the situation has changed slightly in Britain. In view of this changing situation, I would also like to take on board Mr Knops' speech. Is it not time for us to look seriously at the imposition of an arms embargo on Saudi Arabia, as long as that country continues war crimes in Yemen and the blockade of humanitarian aid? You all know the examples yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u202	We have to go into the details here, because according to the saying, this is often the devil, especially in this sort of thing. Once again, my party will always stop any kind of arms exports that could contribute to the horrors of the war in Yemen, human rights violations and other bad things. The point is, of course, that Saudi Arabia is a party to the international coalition in the fight against ISIS, whether we find it uncomfortable or not. I find it a little difficult to pronounce a general arms embargo in this case if you are working together with one of these countries in another fight. So I do not know exactly how Mr Sjoerdsma sees this combination, but that seems complicated to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u203	The question before us is, of course, more fundamental than the handling by export order. The question is whether, in principle, you still want to supply arms to Saudi Arabia at the moment. I agree with Mr Knops that this can only be decided at European level. It makes no sense if the Netherlands is strict and is going to look at it again, if the United Kingdom and France still do so. That's why I'm making this call. Let us take Europe for a moment and not export arms to that country, despite its participation in that coalition. We must also look at Saudi Arabia's role in that coalition. The country is involved in bombing, but in the meantime there are also financial flows from that country to Sunni terrorist movements. So you might ask yourself, isn't that just a double role?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u204	I think it would be a very good idea if this issue were discussed at European level. In addition, I say that the examination of arms exports must be carried out on a case-by-case basis, whether we like it or not. To be honest, I do not remember arms exports from the Netherlands to Saudi Arabia from the recent past or even from the somewhat distant past, at least not at the time when I am on the committee that oversees them. However, the debate on this at European level so that at least you apply the same criteria in the same strict way seems to me to be an excellent suggestion. I come to the third point where interests and values come into conflict, and that is what I would almost say: of course, about Russia. Unlike last year, I haven't really said much about Russia. Soon, of course, we will be discussing in detail the MH17 report and Russia's role in it. Earlier this year, we had an extensive debate on the so-called water separation moment in relations with Russia. We then agreed that it would no longer be a business as usual and that the European dependence on Russian gas should be reduced. But the memory appears short, painfully short, you might say. This summer, Shell announced with Gazprom to organise a doubling of the Nord Stream pipeline, against the wishes of the European Commission, under protest from a number of Eastern European countries and, of course, against the will of Ukrainians who see their own interests literally bypassed by it, because a U-turn is now cutting them off, while Gazprom further strengthens its position on the European market. Apart from the review of sanctions, I ask the Minister how he sees this in the light of energy policy and the ambitions for the Energy Union, and the broader geopolitical relations. Has he consulted the Commission on the objections raised? Has he talked to other Member States about this? If not, is he willing to start that conversation after all? Finally, after a lot of gloomy points, I would like to look a little further than our own stormy region, at places in the world where, after periods of conflict or oppression, there is hope for a better future, without violence, in a democratic society. I am thinking primarily of Myanmar, or Burma, if you will. This spring I was there on an inspiring work visit. In the meantime, successful elections have taken place with a sweeping victory for the lady. It called for cooperation with respect for other parties. Earlier this year, I argued in favour of setting up a fully-fledged embassy there as soon as these elections were held. The Minister also mentioned this in his letter on the strengthening of the postal network, which we recently received. Does he share my view that this would be a very nice and good time to open that embassy there soon? Let me give you another example. When the Permanent Foreign Affairs Commission was in Cuba last month, it spoke with the Colombian ambassador who hosts his government delegation in Havana in the negotiations with the FARC. He was optimistic about the peace process, but also realistic about the resistance that an agreement in his own country could bring about. This concerns, in particular, the responsibility that people, whether they belong to the government or to the FARC, have to make about the violence used. What contribution could the Netherlands make to this process? I am thinking in particular of assistance on this subject, which is also called transitional justice. Our country has a lot of expertise in this area as a centre for peace and justice. Wouldn't it be nice if we could get Colombia through that decisive phase with such programmes, so that perhaps next year the country will be the winner of the Nobel Peace Prize? They are hopeful points of light, but there are, of course, a great deal of concern about the developments in the ring around Europe and in Europe itself. These developments call for an active and involved foreign policy and above all cooperation. I am thinking of cooperation in the Chamber of Representatives PvdA and VVD have given two fine examples of this cooperation in Europe and cooperation with similar partners elsewhere. Together we are ultimately stronger in the world. I have the hope, and yet I have the confidence, that we will eventually overcome this challenge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u205	I have a brief question for clarification. The amendments of the VVD and the PvdA have just been distributed. Among other things, it states that 4 million is being drawn from the Relief Fund, which is now very successful and which NGOs are very involved in. How does Mr Servaes explain this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u206	I think that Mr Voordewind is referring to Amendment No 2. 8 which Mr Ten Broeke has submitted, along with me. The Relief Fund is intended to support such organisations in crisis areas at times when additional support is needed. I think that extra support is now very much needed. Together with the department, we have looked at the places where there is room in the budgets. This is partly in the budgets for UN organisations or, for example, the Asian Development Bank, where it can be a bit less now or where sometimes less well performed according to the so-called score cards or performance index. I think it is right that, as part of that package, you should use the fund that we have set up to respond quickly in acute crises. That's why some of the cover comes from there. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u207	That's the NGO fund. We had reserved that pot with 570 million for additional emergency aid. Of this, 120 million has been allocated to the NGO Fund, the Relief Fund. That's what this money needs, and it's even gonna run out of money next year. It is precisely this fund that is now getting 4 million. I just don't understand the reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u208	I do not believe that the Relief Fund is up and that organisations or certain goals in this sense are lacking in money. This fund was created in order to be able to draw on it flexibly and where it is most urgent. We now say that at least UNHCR but also Unicef and UN Women can use extra support. You will probably very much agree with that. We've been looking at different funds to find out where there's room. This is one of them. It seems to me that precisely in this case, it is intended to be very specific.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-5.u209	I shall suspend the sitting until 2:00 p.m. Then the order of business and the voting will take place. Then we will continue with the debate on the Foreign Affairs budget.
