ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the initiators, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mrs Keijzer, and the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber. I can see that Members have done the same with pleasure, which has caused a slight chaos. But it's done now. I call Mr Flierman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. On behalf of the CDA Group, I would first of all like to thank the initiators and their successors and also the government for the work that has been done so far in this draft law. The core of the present legislative proposal is that the traditional, formally one-sided relationship in the employment relationship between employer and employee in the government is replaced by a two-sided one. The draft law calls for a somewhat double feeling in our group. The authors speak of the completion of a process of harmonisation of working conditions in the public and private sectors which has been going on for a long time, especially since the 1980s. Much has already been done in this process, and they say that this draft law will complete the process. My group has taken note with interest of the draft law and the discussion that has taken place on it for almost five years. However, the long period of discussion raises the question of how urgent this matter really is: although some strong positions are taken in written preparation, my group does not escape the impression that not only we, but also the current defenders of the proposal, can come up with a few things that may be more important these days. Anyway, if everything were equally urgent, there would be no distinction. Anyway, before we deal with the proposal here, we still have a number of questions. These questions are partly of a more or less technical nature, for another part of a more fundamental nature. First of all, there is the question of whether this law is necessary at the moment. This question is all the more relevant now that in practice there is already a two-sided relationship in many respects. The question also arises as to whether the process of harmonisation has really been completed and whether there will actually be more equality in government employment relations and equivalence between government and private sector. Finally, but not least, we can ask ourselves whether this draft law actually comes at a time when, in the broader sense of the term, national authorities are also seeking membership with the private sector. Before I go into these questions, I would like to start by thinking about the technique of legislation. It has been argued from several sides that a different approach, which would perhaps make the most important issues to be changed in the context of standardisation from existing legislation more attractive in terms of legislation. The one-sided relationship would have been formally maintained, but a number of aspects, such as the right of dismissal, would be regulated in accordance with the market sector. the rules of the market sector have been declared applicable. In this way, civil servants' law was adapted to ordinary labour law in a number of areas at the end of the 20th century. The Council of State also pointed this out and suggested that we continue along this path. The opinion of the Council of State, and the reaction of the authors at the time, unfortunately has nothing to do with a discussion between deaf people: many views, but few weighting. The authors argue, if I understand correctly, that, with the continuation of the line so far followed in a single system, more and more private and public law is going to be confused, with all the disadvantages involved. Moreover, the formal situation would continue to deviate from the factual situation. The CDA Group wonders to what extent this mix with the proposed system is not involved. Are we not actually replacing one hybrid system with another? In some organisations, we keep employees with a classic and a new status, and even in the new status, if I see it correctly, we retain some elements of public law. Is there not once again a difference between a formal and a factual situation after the adoption of the law? Would the proposers again like to address this dilemma? They also point out that one system entails less costs. Is that true now that we're still working with a hybrid system? Are the benefits not overestimated in this respect? I also wondered how the government would have shaped this legislation, in particular the changes to the right of dismissal if there had been no initiative. The normalization of the right of dismissal is also enshrined in the coalition agreement. D66 and the CDA, as they often do, should be grateful for their support in the elaboration of these elements of the coalition agreement. However, would the government have taken this approach on its own initiative? A specific aspect of the quality of the law concerns the position of staff employed in public education. These staff seem to be partly outside the new system. There seems to be an error in the law that would be repaired. However, that did not happen. Can the proposers or the Minister promise that this will still be done in the follow-up legislation, which is clearly necessary? Another question in the elaboration concerns the impact of the change on the civil servants' pension system. Will the claims remain unchanged in this context? I have one final question for the Minister on legislative technique: when does he envisage the entry into force of the new system? How much time do we need to adapt all laws and regulations to the new principles? Is the process of harmonisation now complete? For example, changing the right of dismissal is an important step, but are there other areas that have not yet been standardised? In general terms, this legislative proposal seems to increase the scope for public employees to enter into contracts. It often refers to the conventions which the Netherlands is bound by in the framework of the ILO. But is that also true in practice? Does the contract freedom really increase? How? Will the proposers and the minister explain to what extent the public employee will be given more rights, also in view of the ILO conventions? One area in which harmonisation has not been completed is the remuneration and further conditions of employment of the summit of organisations. These matters are dealt with unilaterally by separate legislation. There's nothing market-oriented about that. It is not for nothing that there has been a great deal of attention to this issue in the written preparation. Now I do not want to talk about the summit in this debate, but I want to talk about the levels directly below it. In many organisations in the market sector and the semi-public sector you can see in the higher levels of the organisation the necessary employees who have a contract of employment on an individual basis outside the collective agreement; negotiated by them themselves. Do the proposers and the Minister see that now also happen more often in the public sector? And if so, within what bandwidths? I also ask this because the proposers seem to expect that, after the draft law has been adopted, mobility between the public and private sectors will increase. What exactly is this expectation based on? What reasons do people have for moving from one sector to another, what obstacles are there and which of them does this proposal remove? I would like to hear a response from the proposers with a certain differentiation between levels in the organisations and by areas of activity. For example, is the government becoming more attractive to really good ICT experts, which it needs? The introduction of the two-sided relationship makes the trade unions fear a weakening of the legal position of their members. You can argue about it if it is. I find it at least as interesting to hear from the government how she sees her own position changing with the present law. Is the state's position as an employer weakened or strengthened vis-à-vis employees? What advantages and disadvantages does the Minister see for the government employer with the introduction of this proposal? Does the government accept and respect the changed relationships? In this light, it is interesting to mention the government's comment on the significance of the WNT. The Minister acknowledges the market mechanism, but at the same time points to the limits set by the WNT. That passage reminded me of Henri Ford, who also offered his customers an opportunity to order a T-Ford in every color, as long as it was black. Finally, I come to the question of how the government, in particular the government, is developing in a general sense. With this legislative proposal, we want to take a step towards harmonisation and thus create a more equal relationship between employee and employer. But is he really going to be there? In some areas, I think I see developments which are quite the opposite, i.e. an increase in differences and distance from the private sector. I mentioned the impact of the WNT and possibly subsequent laws in this area, not only for the summit, but also for larger groups under that summit. The simplicity with which rulers enter into collective bargaining or make it difficult for them to say that there is no more money in the budget has more to do with the word of power than with the willingness to negotiate. To what extent does the government intend to act on the principle of equivalence? A final example may not be the portfolio of the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, but of his colleague. In the private sector, you see companies outsource business and focus on the core activities that one is good at. In recent years, however, the government has achieved new tasks, not core activities. She has her own cleaning company, a printing center and so on. To what extent does the government respond to developments in other sectors of society? We are, of course, awaiting the response of the Minister and the proposers with great interest. I understand they still have time to think about that reaction. This can only improve the quality of the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-7.u3	I give the floor to Mr Schalk. Since it's a maiden speech, I'll ring the bell.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-7.u4	Madam President. It is a special pleasure and an honor to make my maiden speech in this Chamber today. This is reinforced by the fact that today we are talking about people who are just coming across this house and who have received me as a new Member of Parliament in a professional way. Let that compliment also have a place in my first speech. But if we're not careful, we're going to make a rather firm decision about them. Let's walk them by. Just outside this building are two people from the Royal Marechaussee, so military. Their legal status is not normalized. Nor the police you can find there. They are literally and figuratively excluded. By the way, they remained quite calm! Incoming into the Chamber Building we meet the security guards: their legal status will be normalized. Then the other employees in and around the hall and in the coffee room: all people who are fully serviceable here, who have all taken an oath and who give themselves to the public cause with all their gifts and talents. However, I did not notice any extra festive vote with them today, while today it is about normalising their legal status. That is what we are talking about today with the two proposers, Mrs Keijzer and Mr Van Weyenberg, and with Minister Plasterk as their advisor. I congratulate the initiators, especially for their perseverance. On the basis of a motion from 1997, tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Zijlstra, it is not easy to defend a legislative proposal. According to the proposers, Parliament was de facto in favour of abolishing public law. Their predecessors then tabled this initiative proposal in 2010. It is now 2015, so the proposal has a long history. It is a credit to the proposers that they have taken over the baton and that they have continued, so that we can now talk about the Law on standardisation of the legal status of civil servants. This law involves two key actors: the government and the public service. I can be brief about the government in this case. The SGP sees the government as a servant of God: that simply means that we believe and confess that God holds the government with authority to bring order into society. That is necessary because that order has disappeared because of the sinful, wrong, actions of people. We see it in the world around us. Well, the government is there for the benefit of its citizens. This becomes explicitly clear when it comes to protecting our territory, with military forces, the security of the streets, the police, and the opportunities for government and citizens to seek justice and justice, through justice. This list must be heartwarming for the authors of this bill. These are precisely the groups which they exclude from this legislative proposal. These groups apparently do not need a standardized legal status. Well, let me be clear: I very much agree with them. But then I don't think it's consistent, because why all the others? The government serves its citizens in a variety of areas, not only in the areas of militia, police and justice, but also in a ministry, in an inspection or by a registry. Can the proposers explain explicitly why these groups do need a standardized legal status? Why not the police and the security guards? Why not the military, but the AIVD does? Why not the D.A. and the Council of State? Is there no distinction here where there is no distinction? I will not mention all these examples for nothing, because in all these areas there are tasks for the public authorities. But the government itself can do nothing; the government is a concept. She needs hands and feet, and those are our officials. They have an extremely important task, namely to ensure that the serving government, as I said, as a servant of God, becomes truly serviceable. This is also part of the SGP's vision that this serving government has a special position. The public authorities, particularly in difficult situations, should be able to summon their officials to carry out certain tasks. In the view of the SGP, this should be limited where officials are demonstrable and consistent conscientious objectors. Until recently this was a good practice, unfortunately broken last year in the field of conscientious objectors. A question to the author of D66 would be: if the legal status of civil servants is normalized, does that mean that you are also prepared to equate the position of civil servants of conscience with that of ordinary workers with conscientious objection? Normal workers should not, according to the General Law, be excluded from equal treatment for the mere fact of conscientious objection. I am curious to hear Mr Van Weyenberg's reply and Mrs Keijzer's answer. Anyway, back to the proposition: the government must be able to command work. On the other hand, the position of officials is such that they must be able to assess whether the contract is legitimate, i.e. not contrary to the legal task assigned to an official. It is precisely there that it is important that civil servants have an appointment and not just a contract of employment. I would like to make that clear with an example that I share with the written input of my highly esteemed predecessor, former senator Gerrit Holdijk. He explicitly asked a question about the position of clerks. The answer to his written contribution was disappointing, but it led me to ask a clerk, not this house, what he thought he might have a different legal position in the future. His answer got me thinking. He has great difficulty with that, because he really considers himself a consultant and counsellor, and in his position also watches over democratic processes, in a city council in this case. For his opinion, he can function from an entirely independent position precisely by his appointment. I know these are feelings, but can the proposers imagine? I can put the same question to the Minister, for example with regard to his secretary-general or his direct staff. In the course of the examination of this bill, the authors increasingly focus on the right of dismissal. That would be at the heart of the proposal. There is still an important point of attention, particularly with regard to the equal treatment of civil servants vis-à-vis employees. In the current situation, their legal status is reasonably balanced. The civil servant currently has better legal protection. Should he be dismissed, he is entitled to WW with a plus: a super-statutory scheme which allows the dismissed official much longer to retain a higher benefit. On the other hand, the employee was able to count on a remuneration he received in the event of an involuntary termination of employment, such as the canton judge's formula. Then he got WW, related to the maximum daily wage. So the situation was somewhat balanced. In the meantime, employees in the private sector are covered by the new Work and Security Act that the canton court formula has been replaced by a lower transition fee and that their maximum WW period falls from three to two years. Officials will also be entitled to a transitional allowance in the event of dismissal. In the meantime, that dismissed official still retains the right to the super-statutory scheme, which means that he receives much longer a WW benefit, which is also much higher, not related to the maximum daily wage, but to the final salary, while in the meantime he is also entitled to the transition allowance under the new dismissal right. So you're out of balance! The proposers of the bill acknowledge this in the further reply dated. 21 May 2015, but they see it as a cost. I quote: 'If the transition fees from the Work and Security Act are also taken into account, they may result in a structural cost item'. So it's a cost! Do the applicants consider that the price to be paid for the principle that civil servants should be treated equally in the event of dismissal as employees in the private sector? Do they think that the legal position of a dismissed official should be much stronger than that of an employee? Or is that an unintentional effect because the Work and Security Act entered into force in the interim? Do the proposers recognise that in this way the principle of equal treatment in the event of dismissal is in fact being infringed? And if so, how are the proposers going to restore this within this bill? Or do you opt for a flawed law that directly asks for repair work, for example through a temporary transitional measure such as in education? Or do you see equal treatment arising through the collective bargaining table where the position of civil servants should be adjusted? Given the collective bargaining process at the moment, this does not seem to be a realistic route. How do the proposers see this and how does the Minister view this? Another concern is the amount of work involved. The Minister's reply shows that, as a follow-up to this bill, about 100 other laws will have to be amended and then numerous regulations etc. This is a project that will last a year or three, while 40% of officials are no longer covered by it. It is an operation that is going to cost between EUR 53 and 186 million, at a time when the economy is drawing a little bit, but where the money really isn't there. Do the proposers still consider this proportionate? And, so I ask the Minister, does the government think this is justified? Would it not be wise, I would ask the proposers and the Minister, to look again very carefully at alternatives that have the same effect? Are the proposers prepared to do this, for example in consultation with the social partners? I'm rounding up. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has serious doubts about this bill. I would rather have made my maiden speech more positive, for example with a friendly encouragement. On the other hand, I find it special to give my maiden speech about officials who took an oath before they took up their duties and duties. I, too, recently took the oath. That was a special moment, because it is precisely in the taking of the oath that there is something about the special task of officials and officials. For me this also means that I have been allowed to accept this task under the call of God's help. In that dependence I hope to be able to do the work here in the Chamber, to the honor of God, to the salvation of our fellow men. With this personal comment I conclude and I would like to await the reply of the proposers and the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-7.u5	Thank you very much, Mr Schalk. You can stand still for a while. Congratulations on your maiden speech. May I also briefly highlight your baptism in this place? You're from a real educator's house. Trained as a teacher, you started your career in 1983 at the Christian Elementary School De Wegwijzer in Berkenwoude. At first, you were only a teacher there, then Deputy Director and eventually Director. Afterwards, in 1994 you left education to polder, in a figurative sense: you switched to the Reformatorisch Sociale Unie, an interest organisation for employees, employers and self-employed persons that has the Biblical principles as the starting point for its activities. From September 1994 to 2008 you were the director and now you are part of the board of directors. You are indeed a biblical polderian. But it's one of militaristic traits, because until 2007 you were also a reserve captain of the army. You had and have a number of secondary functions, both ecclesiastical and social, all of which have strong kinship with your philosophically reformed beliefs. Since 2002 you have been chairman of the Platform Values and Standards and from 2007 editor of the series of publications entitled Christian are on the floor. You were deacon at the reformed municipality in Veenendaal from 2008 to 2011 and now you are just an elder again. Although you did not fulfil any political functions prior to your entry into the Upper Chamber on 9 June 2015, your political interest is unmistakable. This year, even before your appointment, we have been able to find you in the First Chamber several times, for example during the list-leader debate here in plenary. Recently, you led the entire College of B and W and the city council of your hometown Veenendaal around the Upper House. You don't shy away from the modern means of communication. You are one of the now 41 Twitterers in the Upper Chamber. Your tweets are addressed to your political supporters, but also to the members of your interest organisation. You do not have to do all the work in the First Chamber during this period alone, as your predecessor Gerrit Holdijk has for the past four years, because the size of your group has doubled to two seats, a level your party had for many years before that. I wish you every success in your further contribution to the work of the Chamber. I'm suspending the sitting to give my fellow Members the opportunity to congratulate you on your maiden speech. I'm the first person to wish you luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-7.u6	I would ask Members to take their seats again so that we can continue the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-7.u7	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would also like to congratulate the speaker before me, Mr Schalk, on his maiden speech. It's good to hear his passionate contribution to the debate. Thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance still has a few concerns about the legislative proposal for a Law on standardisation of the legal status of civil servants. These are partly fundamental and partly based on doubts about the possible implementation of the law. First of all, we find it typical that the bill talks about 'normalising' the legal status of civil servants. You could have said "harmonisation" too, and you could have assumed that being an official is a non-normal thing, which is different from what the norm should be. That standard would then be the legal status of employees in the private sector, in the business sector. The market as a standard is something that we do not always take for granted. It may seem a bit like an expression of a very liberal view, which we are failing to take into account the position of people working for the public sector. The public sector is as dear to my group as any other sector, and we do not need to put one sector in a normative position over another, even when it comes to legal status. However, we believe it is important that the legal status and working conditions of people in a specific sector or working environment are tailored to their specific task. Fortunately, the initiators and the House of Representatives also see this when it comes to, for example, the position of Defence personnel and police officers. The question then is whether civil service, in the sense of public service works and directly controlled by a political government, entails sufficient individuality for a specific legal position. I'm going through that question now. Inherent to the officialship is that in many policy, public, advisory and management functions it is often difficult to maneuver between general, abstract interests of the public cause or very specific interests of people in the public sector and the sometimes concrete and sometimes indirect political-administrative interests of directors in ministries, provinces, municipalities and water boards. As far as we are concerned, this position justifies at least for a large group of functions on parts guarantees of legal status other than those necessary and customary in business. For example, officials should be able to deal flexibly and loyally with periodic political changes, should limit themselves to their own freedom of expression in order not to get in the way of their political bosses, and should always play their part in the field of confidentiality with their political bosses on the one hand, and the public area in which public administration takes place on the other. As no other, these officials should be able to deal with conflicts of interest in society and within political governance and operate in an equally transparent manner. This position is not always comparable to that of a private-sector employee. As far as we are concerned, there must also be inverse loyalty from the public administration towards the people who work for him, for us. In our group's view, therefore, there is also a certain degree of protection of the legal position. We would like to hear from the initiators and the cabinet what they have in store to ensure the individuality of the position of such groups of officials and their protection. We are asking for this all the more, because in many public confidence positions in an unexpected conflict, the process of public civil justice may be hampered, precisely because of the nature of confidence. Our second point concerns the possible implementation of the so-called standardisation of legal status. In practice, this will be an extremely comprehensive operation. The government's replies show that more than a hundred laws need to be amended, in addition to a multitude of regulations and regulations in all the levels of government in our country. It changes the relationship between employer and employee and concerns the legal position of perhaps more than half a million people. The adoption of this bill therefore leads to a significant transition in public administration. Now this cabinet, I am really sorry to say, does not have a happy hand of leading the implementation of great transitions. I would just like to mention the out-of-control reorganisation of the police, the problems even mentioned by the King a week ago with the pgb and the implementation problems at the Tax Office, which have cost a State Secretary the head. There is no doubt that we will be discussing this at another time. What matters to me now is whether the initiators have an insight into the complexity of the implementation across all levels of government. How do they intend to manage this long-term and comprehensive operation? Is there any certainty about a flawless operation affecting the legal status of hundreds of thousands of people working for us? The members of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance are wondering whether this operation does meet a need, given the specific tension field in which a large group of officials often rightly have a specific legal position that suits the specific circumstances of their work. Does this bill actually foresee a need or cause more misery than it solves? On this point, I would like to give the initiators a more detailed explanation. Officials operate within a political tension field in which the political colour of their clients can vary greatly after each election. This deserves protection from political arbitrariness. GroenLinks stands for a strong public sector, where people can work with pleasure and confidence for the public cause. We believe that the government as an employer should also be able to guarantee this if the legal status no longer gives any particular reason for doing so. We are curious about the answers of the initiators and will take these answers into account in our final assessment of this initiative law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-7.u8	Mr. Chairman. Those who look at the development of civil service law and those who look at the process we call 'normalisation' today must note that advocates of change must have a long time to go. It is therefore worth a compliment, and it is also a sign of a certain courage that the proposers are making use of their right of initiative in this respect. However, the Christian Union Group still has many objections and questions at the moment, and I would like to present them to the authors and sometimes also to the Minister. Working in the service of the government is special. All those who work in public services do so in the public interest. The government is the servant of justice and thus brings peace and justice. It therefore runs the force monopoly. It is the government that has to protect citizens' freedoms and can limit them if necessary. She cannot change or forsake her core tasks and she does not serve customers or clients, but is always in a democratic-legal relationship with her citizens, as the Council of State cited strikingly. This implies what is necessary for those employed by the government. The service of the general interest is the task of all officials who are rich in the Netherlands. And a lot of these officials work hard every day to do that. That's worth a compliment, too. Citizens can assume that the government always acts in the general interest, yes that every official is looking for it. This special position of the public authorities has so far been reflected in the legal status of civil servants. A unilateral contract of employment reflects the fact that both government employer and public employee are subordinate to the general interest. Maybe no one has put that as concisely as Professor Niessen: "Not the official is a special employee, but the government is a special employer." The special position of the official depends on the specific nature of the public organisation. The present proposal states that the equalisation of civil service law and labour law does not prevent it from expressing the subjection to the general interest. At the heart of the debate is this. The authors answered questions from my group by saying that they do not see any fundamental differences between government and companies as employers. They argue that the essence is that they both have to pay their employees wages in return for their work and that they both have to behave like a good employer. In their view, this does not preclude differences in the nature of the organisations concerned, such as companies and non profit-oriented institutions, without the need for different employment regimes. The Group of the Christian Union understands the considerations of the authors, but nevertheless comes to a different line of thinking. For this group, its own nature, the fact that the government is a legislator and serves the public interest at all times, still weighs differently. Both government employers and civil servants are at the service of this. Now the proposers have a point that the particular nature of the employers' organisation is already reflected in different ways in the way in which it is appointed. But, frankly, they're not gonna solve that with this bill. There are still exceptions and a large proportion of officials working under the "old regime" still there are categories of which it is not clear why they are or are not covered by the exceptions. Think of the AIVD in relation to the STUDY and the special investigators. How big is the current problem now, and what problem do we get in return? Do the proposers consider this law to be an intermediate step, whereby categories which are now excluded will later be included in the private law framework? I'd like a perspective. In the written preparation, colleagues have also often considered the Top Income Standards Act. It is such an example that a complete normalization, in the sense of fully market-based works, does not apply simply because it does not relate to the general interest. The trend of New Public Management, which has been a root of "normalisation thinking" and reflected in policy, is over. The general interest is of real value other than the market. A second point that my group finds difficult to assess is the handling of trade unions. Yes, the RDP regulation may have been followed to the legal letter, but the fact is that it is a one-sided legislative proposal. The principle of equivalence and duality of industrial relations had to depart from the legal argument. And that is when the Minister states that a proposal from his table would have gone past the trade unions. Can the proposers reflect on the paradoxical of this situation? The drafting of the legislative proposal will not be easier. Would it not have been wiser to seek consultation in the spirit of the RDP? My group regrets that this proposal has been drawn up in this way. I would like to ask the Minister how he feels about this now and what consequences he sees for further consideration and consultation with the unions. The substantive effect of this bill is taken into account by the proposers in the latter documents. It is above all a matter of principle. Unfortunately, where the explanatory memorandum lists a number of advantages, the applicants do not come up with more empirical evidence. I ask them whether profits should not also be made on this point. Should it not ultimately be about the quality of the official and whether it can be improved by another organization of industrial relations? I ask the Minister how he weighs the bill in this respect and how it relates to the studies that have been carried out and are still on the way to the desired competences of the administration and the quality of his ambition. Or does he share the view that this bill is mainly a fundamental crossover? How much official energy is still needed before this proposal is further developed in the hundreds of laws that need to be amended? Would it not be better to put this into the quality of the report? Back to the legal text. Article 2 lists who is a public legislator and my group still has a few questions. I refer to Peters' annotation of the case of the Rotterdam Philharmonic Orchestra at the Central Board of Appeal. Peters points out, among other things, that in the case of private-law organisations held by public authority, an approach has been adopted which is a shift from previous case law. Is that what the proposers were trying to do? Where it is now considered whether the private-law organisation does not look too much like a public-law legal person because of its public influence, the criterion is whether the organisation exercises public authority as a key activity. Do the proposers have any insight as to whether, and if so, what shifts does this result in? And why then is the focus on the general interest and public authority under private law the test of public law? My group is not yet reassured that this bill does not have any effect, and it is particularly concerned about the relationship to the Work and Security Act. I ask the proposers and the Minister what is the difference between the official and the non-official in the event of his resignation following the adoption of this law. I would ask the proposers to deal specifically with the cost of dismissal and the effort it will take to effect the dismissal. Since initially the right of dismissal was an important argument for follow-up to standardisation, I would also like to ask the Minister to reflect on this and to indicate whether transitional adjustments are desirable and, if so, which ones. Principles are needed, principles are good. They must be the basis of legislation. At the same time, it is important to consider the current problem and to what extent and at what price a legislative proposal will change it. At the moment, my group has many questions on this very point, which is why I look forward to the answer, although we will have to be patient, as I understand it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-7.u9	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the initiators. Although they are not the original initiators, like their predecessors, they have undoubtedly worked very hard on this bill. That's really not a light job. Of course, I would also like to congratulate Mr Schalk, on behalf of the entire group, on his maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. Today's debate focuses on the issue of employment in the public sector. This raises first of all the question of the special nature of the State, government and public administration as regards the legal status of civil servants. Indeed, the position and role of the public authorities differ substantially from that of civil society organisations and market players. The government is a carrier and guardian of the democratic rule of law, focuses on the general interest and serves the public cause. To this end, for example, it has a tax and violence monopoly. As a democratically authorised legislator, it must protect the rights and freedoms of citizens, but can also limit them. It is responsible for the legal organisation of society, the drafting and enforcement of legal rules and the maintenance of social services, services and care. In this context, the Council of State rightly referred to the adage that public law is a public duty. With these brief observations, I would like to emphasise that the particular nature of public administration is relevant to the way in which the government is treated as an employer and therefore also to the official as an employee. From a classic state-law perspective, the idea that a government body independent of political arbitrariness or administrative bias is essential to the stability and continuity of the State and to the objective maintenance of the rule of law has long been maintained. The legal status of civil servants as a constant factor in the public service should be established accordingly. In this context, the figure of a two-sided, equalized contract of employment for public workers was not considered appropriate for a long time. My group has wondered to what extent an official appointment to the administration is still of a distinctive character or should be carried out today. To what extent is the government still a special employer or official a special employee? The welfare state in 2015 has become very complex in terms of design and operation. Developments such as internationalisation, globalisation, technological progress, scarcity and demographic shifts have contributed to this. To date, public authorities have not responded to these developments by making appropriate adjustments within the public administration, but by creating occasional additions to existing structures with ad hoc solutions. As a result, the original system-compliant and coherent institutional set-up has partly disappeared under these new layers. In other words, public administration has become highly fragmented and therefore less transparent. As a result, the State and its institutions have also lost part of their classical identity. The public employership is therefore no longer as unambiguous as it was in this context, and the same applies to the special characteristics of working in the government that have been cherished for so long. These developments call for a reconsideration of the specific nature of the public organisation and the significance of the answer to that question, or of the legal status of civil servants. In a democratic rule of law, as my group has said, the government must focus on protecting citizens' rights and freedoms, establishing a usable and enforceable legal order, ensuring the optimum performance of the tasks of services and care and ensuring balanced public finances and sustainable economic development. This requires first and foremost a decisive political and administrative decision-making process and, as a result, an efficient and effective, but above all flexible, administrative organisation that contributes to recognizable, predictable and supported public transactions. My group sees this as the current context of public employment. That is why my group believes that the government is still a special employer and that officials are special employees. But the current institutional and functional diversity of public administration and the out-of-nationalised modern and empowered citizen contribute to a now highly differentiated public employership and employeeship. The key question now is whether, on the basis of the requirements which have to be imposed on officials because of the special role of the public authorities, a special legal status, i.e. public law and one-sidedly designed, is necessary or necessary. is desirable. The initiators take the view that a private law-based legal status with a regular two-sided contract of employment is compatible with civil service status. In their view, the one-sided conditions of employment do not determine the degree of service, loyalty, integrity and devotion to the public cause. The same applies to the official awareness of the political primacy of democratically-elected directors. The attitude required for this is based rather on a certain preference or even passion for the public cause and on the willingness to function within the particular characteristics of the public organisation. My group can follow this line of thinking in itself. Employment is just one of many aspects of government. We also have the impression that there has been a process of change in the government organisation for some time now, which is linked to a generational change. The rejuvenation within the civil service is accompanied, if we see it correctly, by new potentials and ambitions and a strong dynamism. We tend to approach this development positively and do not expect it to have a negative impact on the sense of responsibility of officials. Rather, it seems that this development gives an impetus to a culture of equality in social reality. It will ultimately come to the question of whether there is a sense of political-administrative and administrative relations appropriate to the function. We are curious to see to what extent the initiators can connect these associations with what they have referred to as a "normalization process." I'd like to hear it in a while. My group can then agree with most of the reasons behind the proposal. As far as we are concerned, too, it is conceivable that a two-sided employment agreement could promote more harmonious employment relationships, which could help to improve the image of civil servants and make the working conditions regime and the legal protection system simpler and more effective. Nor do we exclude the possibility of increasing labour mobility between government and market sectors. However, the studies cited by the initiators in the explanatory memorandum show that there is still room for serious competition from the market as regards whether the public authorities are sufficiently well-equipped to act as employers. The recruitment capacity of the public service can and should be further enhanced by making the work more interesting and challenging, giving more ownership, offering training, allowing flexible working hours, stimulating remuneration and career policies and, above all, by introducing more effective and professional working methods. A major problem, which is still difficult to resolve due to political sensitivity, seems to me to be limited in terms of remuneration for top positions, particularly in the public sector. I'll come back to that point. I would like to ask the initiators and the minister if the new regime can stimulate the ambitions that have just been mentioned. My group also believes that the call for equality of principle between all workers has been strongly encouraged. We recognize the principle of equal treatment for workers in principle, but, as far as we are concerned, we recognize a number of special aspects of working for the public authorities. In this sense, my group still needs clarification on the part of the initiators. Firstly, how big are the differences between civil service law and private law law at the moment? We read in the explanatory statement that in recent decades both regimes have increasingly approached each other, both substantive and procedural. According to some authors, civil labour law would be even more appropriate to settle labour disputes than administrative procedural law, as it is not equipped to adapt the relationship between employer and employee to changed circumstances in the case of disputes between government and citizen. For example, the administrative body concerned must always take a new decision in the event of an appeal. Secondly, the main substantive difference between the administrative status and the legal status based on a contract of employment would still lie in the context of the right of dismissal. In practice, the formally closed scheme, which contains grounds for dismissal, such as incompetence or incapacity, reorganisation and over-intolerability or serious failure to comply with obligations, appears no longer to exclude dismissal on other grounds on the basis of further legal provisions. In private law, the "reasonable grounds for dismissal," which may arise in practice in the case of business reasons, incapacity for employment, culpable acts or omissions, and a serious and lasting disturbance in the employment relationship, apply. In view of the Work and Security Act which entered into force on 1 July last, my group is interested in the latest developments and the current state of play in relation to each other's interfering or even slow-track legal systems. I would like to ask the initiators and the Minister to respond to this. Since the official remains a special employee in view of his duties and the nature of the employer, some specific issues will still have to be settled in the Civil Service Act. For example, safeguards for integrity, a democratic-legal awareness and a mandatory security investigation for appointments to trust positions can be envisaged. My group can also agree with this line in the proposal. I would like to ask the initiators and the minister to what extent substantial changes can be expected on these and possibly other points and in what direction they are thinking on this point. An important question in this context is the impact of the legislative proposal on the exercise of fundamental rights by civil servants. The answer to the question of whether fundamental rights should be passed on to civil servants is certainly positive according to the prevailing state-law views. I refer, for example, to the Government's Fundamental Rights Note in a pluralist society (29614, No. 2), which dates back to 2003. For example, it can be stated that the court considered a prohibition on drinking naval vessels to be an excessive violation of the privacy of military officials (CRvB 3 May 2002). But it is equally clear that the exercise of fundamental rights by civil servants can cause problems in certain situations. I refer to freedom of expression, for example, of whistleblowers, the right to demonstrate, for example, of trade unions of civil servants, but also of freedom of religion, for example, in the case of so-called "refusal officials', or even the right to vote, for example, in the very common case that officials carry out political functions elsewhere. Both the Constitution and the ECHR, the European Convention on Human Rights, make it possible to impose legal restrictions on the exercise of fundamental rights, as in the Civil Service Act. There are also applicable lower rules, such as the Instructions and external contacts of state officials, which relate to official activities outside of duty and outside the performance of the official duties. I would like to ask the initiators and the minister to what extent the relationship between civil servants' fundamental rights in the new context should or should be interpreted differently. A fundamental question is also what in the new setting can or should be the meaning of the public interest for public employees. They, like political and other public ministers, pledge allegiance to the Constitution and pledge to abide by the law. This means that the step towards a company-perceived government with citizens as customers will never be possible, and in the opinion of my group will never have to be taken. The obligation to represent the general interest means that the official will have to continue to behave as a good official should, as you used to have to act in private law as a good housekeeper should. This also means assisting directors and family members in the exercise of their legal duties and powers. Administrative responsibility and administrative expertise come together here in a political system regulated by the state rule of political responsibility. This implies the lasting value of loyalty and obedience, but with an active duty to contradict. The latter is inherent in the formal commitment to Constitution and law. The legal rules should continue to allow the necessary administrative culture to be maintained and the quality of the administrative service to remain at least at the level required. I would like to ask the initiators and the Minister how they assess this issue. I would then like to draw attention to another matter. My group understands that the public education institutions will continue to be covered by the Staff Act. This continues to distinguish itself from the legal status of the staff working in particular in education. We are hesitant as to whether this is the desired outcome of the proposed operation. In the end, in our opinion, education is a branch of sport other than public administration. Moreover, the question arises as to whether it is desirable, from the point of view of, for example, differentiated administrative processes, but also otherwise, to maintain differences in employment law between public and special education. Is it no longer reasonable to make public educational institutions themselves responsible for their working conditions, including core legal values and, for example, safeguards of integrity? I would like to hear how the initiators and the minister look at this. Then I have one final question about the remuneration ceiling for top officials that has already been mentioned. It is known that there are large differences in remuneration between top officials inside and outside the government. It is also known that there are significant differences between the legal status of European and national civil servants. To what extent does the new regime change the existing situation, for example in the light of the Top Income Standards Act? I would also like to get a response on this point. My group looks forward to the reactions to its first-term observations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-7.u10	Mr. Chairman. First of all, my group also congratulates Mr Schalk on his maiden speech. He made a nice, thorough argument. That promises a lot for the next four years. As a number of colleagues have pointed out, this proposal for an initiative has a long history. This applies both to the political debate and to the handling of the legislative proposal itself. It has therefore changed ownership several times. I would like to welcome the proposers among us, as well as the Minister of the Interior, who is acting as an advisor today. I look forward to a good and thorough debate. Because of time, I will not go into the development of official status over the last 35 years. This can be read back in the explanatory memorandum and also the 2008 policy note by then Minister Ter Horst offers a nice summary. I'd rather spend my time judging this bill. That will take the necessary minutes, because I will put it on the table immediately: the PvdA Group is struggling with this bill. We haven't figured out if it can count on our support. We will make that depend on the reply of the proposers and the minister. There are positive aspects, including for the direct object, the officials themselves. We're convinced of that. However, we also have a number of serious concerns. Our former colleague Ruud Koole, who, until he left this Chamber, has spent the necessary time and attention on this bill, has already submitted some of these questions and concerns to the proposers and the Minister in the written procedure. I must say that I often found the reaction of the proposers to his thorough contribution somewhat laconic in tone. I sincerely hope that will not be the case in this debate. As the authors themselves repeatedly point out, this is a matter of principle concerning the status of Dutch civil servants. There is therefore every reason to examine the initiative law with greater attention in the light of the principles that we hold so high in this Chamber: the feasibility and effectiveness of legislation, as well as the rule of law, legal certainty and justice. As I said, we certainly see good elements in this proposal. We share with the proposers the desire for greater equality between employees and employers in the public sector. They speak of the emancipation of the official as an employee, a principle which, of course, a legitimate social democrat can only welcome. That they want to give concrete form to emancipation with a contract of employment rather than a one-sided appointment and with full collective bargaining, we can easily follow. We are also convinced that the introduction of the Work and Security Act will substantially improve the right of civil servants to resign should the initiative act be adopted. The introduction of a preventive test on dismissal of an official would mean progress, as would the advent of a transition budget, which should help to find a new job. The civil court is expected to review the dismissal of an official much more on substantive grounds than the administrative judge is currently doing. This, too, does more justice to modern industrial relations. Finally, we see how the far-reaching judicialisation of the current state of administration causes inequality between highly educated officials, who themselves can or must decide when a spoke can or must be in a wheel in order to strengthen their position, and the tens of thousands of lower-educated officials, who lack this skill and opportunity. We certainly believe that this distinction could be eliminated. However, there are also serious objections to this bill. First of all, the question is whether this proposal is effective. The implementation of the legislative proposal is likely to take a number of colleagues two to three years. The Minister wrote in his letter of 8 June that at least 100 laws will have to be amended, as well as dozens of national, provincial and local regulations. The introduction costs are enormous: between EUR 53 and 186 million. Mr Schalk has already referred to it. A sum of 109 million is considered to be real by the research agency SEO. There are also benefits, but the estimate is that it will take at least seven years for the bill to produce money. That could be 20 years. The proposers are prepared to do so for their principle. However, we wonder whether there are no better destinations for such a substantial amount of money at this time. We are even more concerned by the Minister's firm statement during the debate on this bill in the Lower House that the Reich will not reimburse these costs for the other government employers. He added, apparently to reassure him, that these costs will not be borne by the working conditions room, but will "be derived from business operations and equipment expenditure." Do we understand this correctly: equipment expenditure? Surely it cannot be that civil servants will be fired in order to make money available for the introduction of this bill? I would just like to point out that we do not consider the principle of this legislative proposal to be a counterpoint to the importance of maintaining employment. We ask the Minister if he agrees with us. If so, what will he do to prevent the loss of jobs, including by other governments, in order to increase the cost of introducing this law? The PvdA Group also has difficulty with the way in which the unions have been dealt with in the run-up to this bill. Mr Bikker just referred to that. The Minister admitted that, if this were his legislative proposal, there would have to have been agreement with the trade unions. After all, the proposal changes the obligations of officials. Since it is an initiative law, such agreement-oriented consultation would be contrary to the constitutionally secured right of initiative of the House of Representatives. I understand that the RDP regulation established by an AMvB should not affect constitutional provisions. However, the situation remains extremely unsatisfactory. It is understandable that public power stations feel out of play. It may be that formal agreement-oriented consultations did not have to take place or should take place, but that is not an obstacle to serious discussion with the unions on this issue and to act in the spirit of that agreement-oriented consultation. When was the last time the proposers spoke to the power stations? I ask them because they are the heirs of previous owners of the bill. And has the Minister spent the last three years as Minister to discuss this issue with the power stations? If the authors attach such importance to the emancipation of the official and to equal relations between the employer and the employee in the government, then we do not understand that, in the run-up to this bill, they have apparently not organized that equivalence in such a way that the trade unions feel right. It is not wise to make such a change of principle without ensuring that the representatives of the people concerned have their support. This is likely to be followed up by the adoption of the legislative proposal. Indeed, with Article X, the proposers have terminated the agreement-oriented consultation also for the full implementation of the law. We very much hope that this will not be a reason to stop discussing the implementation with the unions at all. We would not accept that. Is the Minister prepared to say that he will have serious, open and real consultation with the public power stations on all aspects of the implementation of this law and that he will make a maximum effort to put all unions in position and maintain them throughout that process? Moreover, we have understood that there are government employers who flirt with the idea that after the adoption of this bill, no more collective bargaining with trade unions but collective agreements with their works councils. That is a mentality that we unfortunately also encountered after several privatisations. Former public services became more roomy than the Pope in their market thinking. Does the Minister agree with us that this is undesirable and possibly even contrary to Article 27 of the WOR? Is he prepared to ensure that the trade unions can and will play their full role here too? Otherwise, our firm conviction is that this bill is not progressing. I now come to the heart of our problems with this bill. The applicants have indicated in many places that they are striving for equality between public authorities and the market in the legal position of employees and for equality between employers and employees in the public sector. The key question, which the authors do not really answer anywhere in detail, is, of course,: can it, is it at all? Again and again, the applicants in the reply and in the further reply reduce the answer to that question to: there will be a two-sided contract of employment. That is, in our view, too thin, given the scope of this proposal. The legislator has the scope in this legislative proposal to restrict many of the fundamental rights of civil servants. The right to demonstration, the right to assembly, freedom of expression and the inviolability of the body can all be restricted if necessary for the proper performance of the duties. That's a big deal. And there is no employer in the market sector who can. The proposers will think: that is necessary, it is part of the civil service. And: we have taken that from the current Civil Service Act, so nothing changes. The first thought is true, the second thought isn't. The current Civil Service Act strikes a careful balance between the role of the public authorities as legislators and as employers, and between the rights and obligations of public authorities and civil servants, employers and employees in the public sector. Because civil servants have fewer rights as employees than their colleagues in the market sector, the government as an employer has more obligations. In our view, these duties should be so fixed that the government as legislator cannot go ahead with it unilaterally if it loses its job as an employer in negotiations with employees. Consensual consultation, with the approval of a majority of the designated trade unions before a plan can be put in place, is precisely intended to protect the government from itself and officials against their boss. By removing that from this bill, the relationship between employer and employee is out of balance. There can and will never be fully equivalent consultations between the government as an employer and employees, as the government as a legislator can overrule any agreement made. For example, the working conditions area can always be changed by Parliament's budget law. In our view, the applicants are very easily cycling on this issue in the further reply. In their view, the establishment of public wage areas does not differ substantially from the determination of wage areas in companies or sectors. Politics, they claim, will not unnecessarily cut down on the working conditions area, and businesses must also be careful. That may be so, but as far as I am concerned, the proposers are wrong. First of all, politics does this from time to time: firm action. I have experienced this myself as chairman of GGZ Nederland. I'm just giving a disclaimer, chairman; we agreed in the elaboration of GRECO that we would do that. A number of years ago, all healthcare sectors had to bring an interim action against the State because the previous cabinet tried to unilaterally cancel the Oval Covenant for Care. That interim action was won brilliantly by the health care workers. The current cabinet only wrote in its coalition agreement that the Oval Covenant would be terminated with a law. As a PvdA group, we have noted that this has fortunately dropped with the 2013 agreement on care, but the point seems clear to me. Moreover, it does not matter legally whether the government is doing anything. It's about whether the government can do anything. And what the government can do, this law doesn't change anything. What officials can collectively oppose will change. There will soon be no obligation for the government to come out with a majority of pre-arranged unions. In our view, this is a loss of balance in terms of rights and obligations. The fact that the proposers would have been more appropriate in their response, where they acknowledged and supported, worries us about the consequences of this law and raises questions about the quality of the bill. We ask the Minister, who will have to take over if this proposal is adopted, whether he is prepared to agree with the other government employers and the trade unions on the question of which trade unions are going to hold collective bargaining after the adoption of this law, and what qualified majority will be required to declare a collective agreement universally binding? Is he, more fundamentally, prepared to balance his duty as a government with the duties of civil servants when this law is passed? If necessary, I shall table a motion on this matter in the second term. The current Civil Service Act still has a dam to monitor the balance of rights and obligations I have just mentioned. The one-sided appointment of civil servants is once intended to protect civil servants from political arbitrariness and the delusion of the day that there may be in the government as legislators and that it can see through in the role of the government as an employer. Nowhere have the proposers worked out how such protection will be maintained if their plan continues and there will be a two-sided appointment, which thus assumes an equivalence between employer and employee which will never be fully realised. Do they think that protection is unnecessary? Do they not think it is a problem if the political independence of the Dutch civil service disappears and officials have to go along with the wind of their political bosses? We would like to hear a detailed answer to these questions. For us, these answers are fundamental, because the PvdA attaches great importance to this independence in Weberian sense of officials. We do not want an American system whereby civil servants fly out with a political change of guard. Nor do we want civil servants to be dismissed because they bring up matters that their political bosses do not want to hear. Officials are employed by the Dutch State and not by the political government which happens to be at the helm. Let me give you an example for the government, but where I say "State," you can also fill out province, municipality, water authority and so on. Although officials should of course serve their political bosses loyally, they must also have the space to defend the interests of the State, even if that goes against the wishes or the lazyness of their political bosses. Do the proposers agree with us? If so, why didn't they elaborate and secure it more carefully in their legislative proposal? The applicants are aware that civil servants are not ordinary workers. That is why they have laid down in the legislative proposal in several places the importance of "good civil service," for example in Articles 4 (3) and 6 (1). This is perhaps meant as the dam against political arbitrariness which I have just mentioned, although the authors do not explicitly explain it as such. If that is the case, then we do not think that the dam is adequate. Firstly, Article 6 only speaks of the importance of civil servants acting properly in accordance with their legal obligations. The obligation of the competent authority to be a good employer, which is still laid down in Article 125ter of the Civil Service Act, is deleted. As a result, the balance between employer and employee has been disrupted once again. The proposers assume that this is adequately offset by the general duty of good employership laid down in the Civil Code, but that is in our view a misconception. Officials are unusual employees because the government is an unusual employer, not the other way around. By aligning the government with employers in the market while the government as an employer has power that employers will never have in the market, the proposers drop a undesirable gap in the law as far as we are concerned. Are they prepared to close that gap and include in the legislative proposal the obligation for the competent authority to be a good employer? Moreover, in Article 6 (2), applicants link good civil service directly to grounds for dismissal if good civil service remains out. In our view, this link opens the door wide to political arbitrariness of the government as an employer. Because what good civil service is all about, is nowhere in the bill worked out. However, public employers must ensure the establishment of a code of conduct for good administrative behaviour, and further rules may be laid down at AMvB. Why do employers not have the legal mandate of the proposers to draw up such a code of conduct with employees? Well, that's obvious when you're aiming for equality between parties, isn't it? Our point here is: the further implementation of good administrative practice does not belong in an AMvB but in the law itself. Otherwise, it will be very easy to give political substance to what good civil service means. And we consider that, once again, very undesirable. In the reply, the applicants themselves also state that it might have been a good idea to legally anchor those principles. We ask them if they are prepared to do so. It would significantly restore the balance in the bill, which is now lost in our eyes. This brings me to my final point. Large groups of civil servants shall be excluded from the functioning of this legislative proposal at least 20% of the total. Many groups in this House have questioned this in the exchange of written questions. Because if this law apparently has so much to offer civil servants, why would we exclude people from it at all? Really rattles the bill as far as we are concerned if the exceptions made are substantiated. In the case of military, for example, the applicants motivate them with the high demands on the employability of military personnel, which has an impact on their right to strike. So far we can follow it, but why do the authors see it as a more serious violation of fundamental rights than the example of a state official who is not allowed to demonstrate against the policy of his political boss, and who is not allowed to tweet about it or write letters about it? And why is it more serious than for municipal officials or provincial officials who have to give up their right to stand as a candidate if they live in the place or province in which they work? Or why is it worse than a prison guard who has to have a look inside to find out he's not smuggling contraband? This bill also regulates the restriction of the fundamental rights of civil servants, as I said earlier. We therefore believe that it is obvious that the applicants reject the exceptions they make. We would therefore like to hear an explanation from the authors of this distinction between the fundamental rights of groups of officials. When it comes to the exclusion of the police and civilian personnel of the Defense Department, we think the petitioners are making it all the way. They openly admit that there has been a political blow in the House of Representatives. The House of Representatives adopted a motion, and what the Chamber wants will get to the Chamber. For us as a Senate, all the alarm bells must go off. If motions of the House of Representatives are adopted, that does not relieve the legislator of the responsibility to produce careful and good legislation. And this isn't about anything. This is about changing the essential status of the administration and the violation of fundamental rights that will or will not affect people. I would therefore like to challenge the authors to come up with a substantive and sustainable justification for the exceptions. If they do not deliver them in this debate, then we in the First Chamber should not support this bill. It simply cannot pass the test of legal technical criticism. I hope that I have highlighted clearly why our group has the traffic light on orange at the moment. The quality of the reply of the proposers is given them plenty of time for it, so that should be possible for us to decide whether it will turn red or green. I wish the proposers much wisdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-7.u11	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of the VVD Group, I would like to congratulate and congratulate Peter Schalk on his maiden speech. I would also like to congratulate the authors on their initiative. The proposal before us once again shows that there is a lot of time, predecessors, successors and ministers before an initiative proposal becomes law. This proposal has already been submitted to the Lower House in 2010. The first written hearing in this Chamber was held in March 2014. I very much hope, however, that this long lead time in parliamentary history will not normally be written on the conto of the First Chamber, because the reality is that both the proposers and the government have not made much haste with their reactions. Anyway, now it's time. Finally, it will become clear whether the tradition of official status will come to an end or not. Despite the compliments to the initiators in general, my group has struggled with the question of whether such a far-reaching subject as a change in the legal status of civil servants is suitable for an initiative proposal. The legal, financial and implementation aspects have always been subordinated in their proposal to their repeated choice of principle. Their reactions show that they subordinate all possible negative consequences, thus de facto transferring the solution of these consequences to the government, so that they can resolve them by means of consultation and implementing legislation. The VVD can express warm feelings for the objective of this proposal, which is to align the legal status of civil servants with that of other employees. The text of the proposal states that "to bring the status of civil servants into line with that of workers on a contract of employment under civil law." However, the way in which this is designed raises so many questions and uncertainties that we wonder whether the original objective of the proposal as it stands is being achieved. The unbundling of the role of employers and government is limited. The WOR and Parliament's budget law remain intact. Political intervention throughout the wage building remains therefore possible. In the middle of the written examination of this proposal, the WNT2 was discussed here in December 2014. The Minister then confirmed what he also denied when dealing with the first WNT, a law the VVD was in favour of which had the effect of tightening standards on the overall wage structure of semi-public organisations and even on the lower regions. The negotiating area is therefore limited and framed by the political reality of the legislation on the standardisation of public salaries. During the discussion of the WNT2 in December 2014, the VVD, as well as the written input to this proposal, which was already in the process at that time and which we were aware of, has already stated that it is one of two. Either you intervene far one-sidedly in the entire wage building or you normalize the legal status of civil servants. The VVD therefore reiterates that, in particular, the WNT2, not to mention the WNT3 in the process, conflicts with the principles of principle on which this initiative was originally based and thus weakens the objective of equality between public employees and those in the market sector. Sometimes it is good to take time for far-reaching legislative proposals. However, it may also work differently, as with this proposal. Time doesn't always work. It seems very much that it has been on the shelf for too long, so to speak, while other legislation has literally and figuratively overtaken it left and right. The result that is now before us is neither meat nor fish. The intended duality is limited by the nature of the employership. The proposal itself is not an example of the desired duality. It is a one-sided decision in which the unions have checked. It remains unclear on which objective criteria the excluded categories are based. Why should STUD be one-sided and not the AIVD? And that's just one example. The proposal obliges employers to define "the good official." Mrs Barth talked about this as well. Here too, the two-sidedness is not recognizable. How far does the freedom of employers go? How is the official's independence guaranteed and political arbitrariness prevented? The objective of equivalence and duality in working conditions seems to be at odds with the one-sided conditions which the new official must fulfil. It also seems that there will be different methods of appointment within one and the same profession, as has already been said about teachers in public and special education. The introduction of this legal status does not normalize to a comparable market situation, but creates a new one alongside the old law officer. It has something of the traditional civil servant and something of the employee in the private sector. The growing hybrid system, which the proposers want to remove, is actually being exchanged for a new hybrid system. As has been said before, the Top Income Standards Act and in particular the WNT2 and the future WNT3 determine the remuneration building of the semi-state organisations, not the free play of negotiations between employers and employees. Politics not only remains at the helm, but is also in the engine room. In particular, the VVD asks the Minister to respond to this, all the more so because he is the one who argued that the WNT2 would not stand in the way of this bill in the discussion of the WNT2 last December. In the input to the preliminary report, the VVD asked at the time whether the proposal is primarily aimed at equalising dismissals to those of employees in the private sector. The authors at the time initially turned a bit around, but, albeit hesitantly, argued that this was an important consideration which played an important role prior to this legislative proposal. We have also repeatedly asked for the urgency of this proposal, which is, unfortunately, always in vain, in the hope of an answer. But above all we asked: what problem will this solve? My group considers these very valid questions, particularly as the costs will be considerable and seem to be far from clear at the moment, given the range that is always mentioned. Principles may cost some, but there are limits to that as far as the VVD is concerned. As I said, my group still has considerable hesitation in this proposal. The principle of equivalence and duality does share the VVD, as you will understand. The hesitation concerns the drafting of this proposal. The differences remain large. The proposers want to get rid of the hybrid system that has grown in the government's employment relationship, but according to the VVD, a new hybrid system comes back to that. Compared to the proposers' initial proposal often compared to that of the private sector, the reality is that only a number of basic characteristics, such as dismissal and recruitment, are comparable. Although there are a number of system agreements, they are not comparable in their implementation. This brings us to the question of whether the initial ambition to normalise and align the legal status of civil servants with that of employees in the private sector has been met by this proposal. However, it may also be that this is best achievable. Finally, I have a question for the Minister. Would the government have come up with a similar proposal if it had not tabled this initiative proposal? Does the government intend to take the initiative, if this proposal were not adopted, to normalise the legal status of civil servants? The answer given by the authors, but above all by the Minister, will determine the position to be taken on this proposal for the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-7.u12	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the PVV Group, I wish Mr Schalk once again good luck from this place. I would like to thank the authors of the initiative proposal that we are discussing today. Despite the crowded plenary agenda, we are starting to finalise this initiative legislative proposal today. This will be somewhat a relief for the proposers, after a journey of almost five years. In the Netherlands, civil servants traditionally have greater legal protection than ordinary employees in the private sector. Several steps have already been taken in recent years to standardise the legal status of civil servants. This bill can be seen as the crown of equality between private employees and employees in the government. The PVV Group welcomes this. The draft law aims to align the position of employees in the public service with that of employees in the private sector. It is not the intention of the authors of this bill to lead to a deterioration in working conditions for public service workers. They also recognise that work in the public sector is and must be of a special nature, inter alia by maintaining the taking of the oath or promise upon taking up their duties. The PVV Group agrees with the authors of the legislative proposal that additional requirements should be imposed on employees employed by the government when it comes to integrity, because they serve the public interest. However, the difference in legal protection with private workers may come to an end as far as our group is concerned, with exceptions. We welcome the fact that this proposal aligns the position of civil servants and employees in the private sector with regard to the protection of dismissals and hope that standardisation will lead to an increase in labour mobility between government and the market sector. The PVV Group will therefore vote in favour of this proposal. Mr. Chairman. I have some time left, so I would like to call anyone who has not yet signed for the EU referendum, to do so on sign.no level.nl.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-7.u13	Mrs Van Weerdenburg, this is out of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-7.u14	Do that today! We're almost there. This was the end of my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-7.u15	Thank you, Mrs Van Weerdenburg. May I point out that you are not supposed to address issues that are out of order? I give the floor to Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-7.u16	Mr. Chairman. I would like to say something to clarify this. The SP group across the street voted against this bill. The written procedure in this Chamber did not lead us to lose the doubts that our group had on the other side. Given the development of the debate, I think it is important to know that position of the SP. Those who can count a little, know that the response of the proposers will now be very important for the net or just not getting this bill passed. The position of the SP is: if the applicants' answer is no better than the answers we have received in the written input, it becomes a no. This also means that my group would like to participate in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-7.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Kox. Are there any other Members who would like to speak on this bill in the first term? I note that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-eerstekamer-7.u18	I'm suspending the meeting pending the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science.
