ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber and in particular the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Education, Culture and Science. There have been six speakers for this debate so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would first like to make a comment about the process. The majority of the Chamber would have freed the millions without any form of debate as a hammerpiece. Now we have actually been given a plenary debate, but with little opportunity to conduct it carefully. According to 50PLUS, it is not pure to deal with the subject in this way. Is this how the Chamber deals with spending millions of euros differently from now on? The situation is well known: the government intends to help the Rijksmuseum acquire two paintings by Van Rijn, better known as the Rembrandts. The estimated contribution of the Dutch government is about €80 million. According to 50PLUS, the course of events is questionable. How exactly did this happen? What has been the role of the group chairmen in the Mauritshuis? How is it that the group chairmen, outside the official public channels, are asking the government to buy these paintings? Why is the government and many parties in this Chamber in such a hurry to adopt the amending budget, which will release 80 million? The situation has changed several times recently and there has been a real diplomatic riot: France now seems to be claiming one, perhaps two, of the paintings. 50PLUS asks the government what the state of affairs is and what the agreements with France are currently. What happens if only one painting is purchased? What amount is involved in this? Is that 40 million? What happens if the amount reserved is not used? Why isn't there waiting for everyone to know if it's one or two paintings? Could it also be that the Netherlands cannot acquire a painting? And what if the Rijksmuseum doesn't know how to raise its share of the necessary resources? Is the government going to come up again, and where are these resources being taken away? Has that been calculated yet? Of course, these are beautiful and unique works, but we have to make choices. The ease with which millions are released in this time makes many angry. And rightly so, because I cannot explain why it is only after a lot of sobbing that there is less savings in nursing homes, why there is so much reduction in care at home and why there is so little money for combating elderly unemployment, when apparently there is just so much money on the shelf for two paintings. It is about the real well-being of people, the facilities they need, their much-needed care and their ability to provide their own livelihoods. That should be the government's choice at this time. 50PLUS therefore asks her: are you willing to review your priorities and use this budget in a place where it is much more needed, for example from one Van Rijn to another Van Rijn? 50PLUS would like answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u3	It is true, Mr Krol, that you were aware of the meeting at the Mauritshuis and that you were not present for purely personal sad circumstances?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u4	You are absolutely right, Mr Pechtold. Because my father died that day, I couldn't be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u5	Mr. Chairman. It all has to be quick, quick, quick. 160 million, and all this must be done quickly, when we do not know a lot of things about this case yet. There are still a lot of gaps in this dossier and a lot of loose ends, but we have to decide quickly, quickly, quickly, just before another debate begins. In nursing homes couples are separated who have lived together for decades because they cannot enter the nursing home together, but one couple can stay together and that is that couple from many hundreds of years ago. That's a choice, but that's not my party's choice. It's also a weird choice. It's 160 million. This while we are at the beginning of the misery of an asylum tsunami. We have a lot of problems in the nursing sector, in the care sector. It is strange that we then suddenly find EUR 160 million for this. The file contains a lot of loose ends and questions. We didn't get any answers to that. We'll get the answers piece by piece from the various newspapers. There seem to be two plans. Plan A means that the Rothschild family sells the paintings to the Rijksmuseum and that the Rijksmuseum pays 160 million euros for them. Plan B means that we buy one painting for 80 million euros and that the French buy the other painting. Is that right? In what way do these two plans interfere with each other? Is plan B, buying it together, at the expense of plan A? Has plan B crossed plan A? Are there any reports that the French have been offended by this? I understand that the French Minister for Culture presented a new scenario on 14 July, which is a holiday in France. Is that right? Is it true that the French say that the French heritage is and that it does not cross the border? The French Government is simply defending the interests of its own country. In the Netherlands, we find it strange when countries do. The French are just standing up for France. They say the heritage is and that it stays in France, I understand from the newspaper. Where does the money come from, anyway? We have seen this supplementary budget, in which we read about the cash drawer. The expenditure earmarked for the investment agenda in the supplementary item will be reduced by EUR 38 billion. What investment agenda is meant? At what cost is this paid? I would like a concrete answer. You can only spend those euros once. Another cry concerns the estimate of revenue. This is adjusted upwards by 30 million euros for 2015 at the expense of the museum's purchase fund. I would also like to hear what this means in practice. Are the French really on board? What do we do if they don't participate in plan B? So we're gonna make up? Will it be 160 million instead of 80 million? Can the government tell us anything about the wonderful figure of the meeting at the Mauritshuis? I always thought the government rules and controls the Chamber. However, I have heard that the group leaders come together, as if it were an oath on the Kaatsbaan, to put it in French terms, to buy art. I am not asking the government to judge the leaders of the political groups, because that is not what the cabinet is for, but it is a wonderful figure. How does that relate to the government's plans? Was there a cabinet plan and then the group leaders met? What's all that about? Why exactly do these paintings have to come to the Netherlands? I think that is a typical example of 'behind the dikes' thinking. It smells like nationalism when you hear all this. I don't want to put all Rembrandts on the same page, but I think it's amazing. I lived in New York for years; then I went to the MoMa on Sunday afternoon. There were Dutch paintings like the Bad van Bathseba by Rembrandt et cetera. Then you are filled with patriotic pride that our paintings hang in the stranger. Why do these paintings have to go behind the dikes? Isn't it wonderful that our beautiful Dutch heritage can be seen in strangers? It would also be wonderful if such a painting hangs in the Louvre. Thanks to the beautiful train connection it is now three hours by train to Paris; you will be there soon with the Thalys. It's beautiful to see it there, isn't it? What kind of strange "behind the dikes" thinking to keep it all in the Netherlands? I'd like to hear that. I am sure the Minister of Finance will also have an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u6	Mr. Chairman. Rembrandt belongs in the Netherlands, in the Rijksmuseum. Rembrandt is our national heritage. That is something we should and should be proud of. We also believe that the cabinet should not bring one Rembrandt, but both Rembrandts to the Netherlands. Rembrandt belongs in the Netherlands, not in France, not in China, nor in the golf states. Rembrandt is from and for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u7	Mr. Chairman. On 21 September there seemed to be a clear deal: The Netherlands would buy the two Rembrandt paintings for a total of 160 million euros, of which 80 million would be paid by the government and 80 million by private individuals. In today's NRC Handelsblad we can read that things have changed. There were two plans. Plan A was that the Netherlands would acquire the two paintings. Plan B was that France and the Netherlands would buy the two paintings together. When September 21st came out that the plan A would become, there was surprise in France. There it was assumed that the Netherlands and France would share the paintings. The NRC talks about a "diplomatic humiliation" of France. I ask the government how this misunderstanding arose. Is there a case of hasty decision-making? Are the paintings still shared with France? What does that have to do with the deal? What does it have to do with the price? What about the budget? If it is changed, I ask the Minister of Finance. Does the Netherlands now save 80 million, or any other amount? Is the money that is left going to other things in the cultural sector? What impact does this have on the agreements on the visibility of the paintings in the Netherlands? If there is money left by sharing with France, will the money that remains go to other things in the cultural sector? How does the government qualify this course of action?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u8	It is nice that Mr Van Dijk asks questions, but it would also be nice if he would tell us what he thinks. Apparently he is excited about the Rembrandts being purchased, because his group leader was also in that back room in the Mauritshuis. So I assume the SP, unlike its constituents, says: let's not spend that money on all kinds of other things, let's just spend that money on the Rembrandts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u9	My group chairman was indeed informed during that consultation. We are in favour of buying the Rembrandts. That's how it was discussed in that meeting. Politics is making choices; so does Mr Bosma. There's a lot of other things you can cut back on. For example, I call a Joint Strike Fighter. Perhaps that is also a tip for the art-loving Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u10	Mr Van Dijk is trying to put it mildly: my group leader was informed. Come on, Mr Van Dijk! Your group leader, Mr Roemer, is wildly enthusiastic. He wants to spend that money on the Rembrandts. That's a choice, but just be honest about it. Be open about it and don't go, now that we're here together and there's cameras on it, be a little careful with "Mr. Roemer was informed." No, the SP is wildly excited about buying the Rembrandts. It's okay. Fortunately, the voters of the SP feel differently about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u11	I think your group leader was there, too. It was just a meeting that was held at the time. We now see that things have gone differently, or may have gone differently. We are now asking for clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u12	Very briefly, my group leader was certainly not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u13	But I think he's been informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u14	Mr. Chairman. We've read a lot about it in the papers over the last few days. One wonders, of course, what the cabinet has learned from the economic crisis in recent years. Since the crack of the financial bubble, all Dutch people have had to keep their hands on the cut. Everyone felt it. Everyone had to bite through the sour apple. I refer to the enormous unemployment, the cuts in health care, the cuts in education and a cut in rent. Now that the cabinet finally has the room to distribute pacifiers out of electoral importance, now that the smoke walls of the crisis are rising and the Netherlands can finally breathe a little, the cabinet spends 80 million on a prestige project, 80 million on the Rothschild family's greenhouse. For the people who don't know this family, those are the richest people on this earth. The cabinet seems, in that respect, to be a debilitating addict who, after years of abstinence, once again gives in to his bad habit. I don't understand, Mr. Chairman. Politics is indeed making choices, but explain this choice to people in our country. EUR 80 million for a prestige project, while the minima and the elderly get nothing. 80 million for a prestige project, while youth unemployment is still sky high. 80 million for a prestige project, in which the cabinet wants the rows for the Rijksmuseum to be longer, while it does nothing about the rows for the food bank. Perhaps worse than the choice itself, is the way in which the choice was made in a secret consultation in the Mauritshuis. After all, people were not allowed to get wind of it. Now we know what democratisation is according to Mr Pechtold and what transparency means for D66. I can see why this was sneaky. The people in this country don't understand, because after years of suffering, their taxpayers' money is simply wasted. I would therefore call on the cabinet to stop this madness and to stand up for the minimums instead of for the art elite, for the elderly rather than for the Rothschilds and for the refugees rather than for the museum bobos.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u15	Mr. Chairman. Sometimes the Netherlands is at its narrowest and sometimes the Netherlands can make itself a little bigger by being proud of its past. Rembrandt is all of us, we can be proud of Rembrandt. If the unique opportunity arises to acquire Rembrandts for public possession, then I think you should take that very seriously. That's happening right now. There is now a supplementary budget for it and the cabinet is given the opportunity to look further with the French government at the public ownership of these two paintings. My group wholeheartedly supports that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u16	We should base ourselves on newspaper reports, because we don't really know that much about this deal at all. NRC Handelsblad, the newspaper prescribed by members of D66, writes that there has been a secret consultation at the Mauritshuis. There was a plan A to buy both of them from the Rothschilds for 160 million, and then a plan B came up to buy only one. Could it be that Mr. Pechtold's action with that secret deliberation in the Mauritshuis Plan A has been ruined? We could have bought both of them, but here comes Mr. Pechtold with his secret deliberation, and that's why a spoke has been put in the wheels. I'm trying to figure out what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u17	That is not the case. It was not so much a secret consultation, but it was a confidential consultation to ensure proper preparation. I have been past all the group chairmen of the elected parties, including yours, and have explained the plans. Then we went to the Mauritshuis to see what the possibilities were. Then on 17 September we sent a letter to the cabinet asking for the possibilities to be examined together with the Rijksmuseum. I think it's up to the Cabinet to give us the latest state of affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u18	Of course, Mr Pechtold is free to organise any meeting, but can he agree with the adage 'government rules and controls the Chamber'? How does his secret meeting relate to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u19	You sometimes have a confidential preparation. I do not agree with Mr Bosma that the Chamber is not taking any initiatives. In fact, Mr Bosma has been well introduced, he sometimes sits in front of this and knows that the Chamber also makes laws. You can take that part, too. The Chamber submits motions every day. In the case of getting support for something important such as acquiring and publicizing cultural goods, it is sometimes necessary to make sure that people are well informed about what is going on behind the scenes. I am extremely pleased that not only within the cabinet, but also very broad within this Chamber, the feelings were all the same quite quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u20	I wonder what transparency means according to D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u21	That you're well prepared and stand here afterwards. I could not have signed up, but I stood here and just gave a fairly clear explanation of vote. I'm prepared to answer all the questions, that's no problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u22	Can Mr Pechtold then explain to me what has been the reason for calling together in secret at the Mauritshuis? What exactly has been discussed there and what has his role been in that? Does he not think that this is not his role as a representative of one of the political parties in this Chamber, but that it is more a role of those who are in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u23	I am on behalf of my group spokesperson for culture. So this falls into my wallet, let's just say. At the time I heard that there was an opportunity for the Netherlands to acquire two Rembrandts, I asked colleagues what they would be like. I thought it was important to first look at what was the feeling in this Parliament, whether that would be beneficial. When it landed favorably, we discussed the detailed conditions for this. You do so in confidence at a time when others also need to work in the matter. You have to convince people. I could have a very exposé here about the reason that these two Rembrandts from 1634 form a gap in the Netherlands Collection. There are many Rembrandts in the Netherlands, but there are not two of them in this quality. Through my background I may have a bit more knowledge of that than others, who only think: gosh, nice, Rembrandt. Get ready for that. There's nothing mysterious about that. Now I am standing here to answer all the questions of the Chamber in full transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u24	The last question, then. I also know D66 as a party that is very strict on the trial. I also understand that Mr Pechtold is taking his background as auctioneer, but we are sitting here as parliamentarians. The knowledge and experience is of course good. However, in the context of the importance Mr Pechtold attaches to transparency and to a proper process, I wonder whether he believes that this process here, which should be decided in a short time that we should make EUR 160 million available for two paintings, does justice to a careful process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u25	If you involve the political leaders of all the elected parties, which pre-examines them and you leave them, I know that it is discussed in one group with everyone and in the other only with the cultural food; that is how it is done if you involve the cabinet and if you are completely transparent about how that went afterward, I think that, especially in this case where acceptance had to be obtained, is quite justifiable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u26	I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Pechtold on the careful way in which this has been prepared. The advantage is that a certain level of expertise can then be provided. I would like to express my sincere appreciation for that. To speak with a proverb: the neighbors' house only comes for sale once. Now that developments are as they are, I would like to ask whether it is the intention of D66 that these commuters remain combined or that they allow divorce in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u27	The SGP and D66 differ fundamentally in terms of divorce, but both partners have nothing to say about this and have been together for almost 400 years now. Apart from that, as an art historian, I say, you have to hold them together. In addition, you must make them accessible to the public. These paintings, except in 1956, have never been shown to the public since they were born in 1634. They've been hanging out with private individuals for a number of years now. My ideal is that they can be seen in the Netherlands, in Europe. My horror would be that they disappear to a private collection in China or the Gulf States.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u28	I can also imagine that there is a second horror in Mr Pechtold's brain, namely that one hangs there and the other in another continent. We'd like to avoid that. However, I am very pleased with the start of appreciation for combating divorce. I would say: D66, continue on this path; not only in history, but also in actuality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u29	Agreed. Haesje van Cleyburg hangs all alone in the Rijksmuseum. Her husband's in America. We've passed up the chance to buy Catrina Hoogsaet. That was a proud divorced woman in the seventeenth century, entrepreneur. It's just hanging now, but she didn't have a pendant either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u30	I just heard Mr Pechtold say that he would be happy if the paintings would stay in Europe. But if they stay in France, they will stay in Europe, won't they? That wouldn't be a problem at all, would it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u31	It's my ideal if these paintings are hung in the Rijksmuseum. I outlined this to Mr Krol a few weeks ago, and I am happy to do so again today. I think these paintings are part of the Dutch heritage. They can fill a gap in the Rijksmuseum's collection. There are beautiful Rembrandts on display in the Netherlands. However, these two paintings are unique because two ordinary citizens were powerful citizens of the end of the Eighty Years' War so self-consciously represented the Republic by being portrayed to their feet. I mean, the panels of Rudi van de Wint in our plenary room are monumental, but so are these two Rembrandt paintings. We do not yet have such paintings by Rembrandt in the collection of the Rijksmuseum. I would like anyone who is always full of identity and nationality to be aware of this. We combine this with a European idea. First comes the Rijksmuseum, then comes Europe. That's all I want to think about right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u32	I am very sorry that D66 prefers this rather than the much-needed care. If I could determine what we'd be spending this money on, I'd really rather spend it on care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u33	This kind of equation can always be made. Of course, every government must always pay attention to what it spends money on. I've been alderman of Culture for seven years. Decisions on the allocation of money for culture are always difficult because a decision on it is opposed to other decisions. The government builds roads and provides good care for the elderly. She makes choices. However, especially at a time when there is a great deal of unrest in Europe and beyond, it is important to nurture culture. When Winston Churchill faced himself in the 1940s with a cabinet that had to decide whether it would use all the money for the arms industry against the Nazis, and a Secretary of War against him who proposed to put the cultural budget to zero, he replied: what are we fighting for?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u34	Winston Churchill never said that. I warn you, Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u35	If you were there, I would like to hear from you what Churchill did say, Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u36	This quote is more often put forward as an argument. Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union used it once, and then I managed to throw it at her. So I warn you, Mr Pechtold, stay away from Winston Churchill with your tennis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u37	As long as you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u38	Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, all of the Netherlands knows the bridal couple Maerten and Oopjen. They're a beautiful couple. My group supports the government's intention to purchase these portraits. I understand that this has given the Netherlands a truly unique opportunity. For my group, too, the disappearance of these portraits into the bedroom of an oil sheik is the worst case scenario. Then we wouldn't be able to enjoy these portraits anymore. We now have the opportunity to bring them to the Netherlands and let the public enjoy it. So let's take that opportunity now. I have a few more questions about this. What's the latest? The supplementary budget, of course, contains the large amount of 80 million. Does this amount apply to one or two works of art? Those two questions have something to do with each other. If we are talking about an amount for one piece of art, are there any consequences? Do we have to look at any contributions from funds? Will there be contributions from funds? My group therefore supports the cabinet's intention to purchase these paintings. However, I would like to hear an explanation of the amounts. And what's the latest?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u39	This brings to an end the first term of office. The ministers have informed me that they can respond immediately. First, the Minister for Education, Culture and Science will speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u40	Mr. Chairman. I thank the spokesmen for the warm words about these two special paintings. Let me start with that, because these paintings are unique. They give a unique picture of the Dutch bourgeoisie from the seventeenth century, painted by a young Rembrandt. People have rarely been painted from head to toe. They are therefore among the very, very important works of the Dutch cultural heritage. Because they are so unique and so special, it can lead to special procedures in the complex situation in which they are now privately owned. I fully agree with Mr Pechtold that Rembrandt belongs to all of us. That is why the guidance for the cabinet's actions has always been to ensure that these paintings come into public hands and can therefore also be made accessible to a wide audience, from young to old. The history is that these paintings are in private hands, that the owner has indicated that he wants to sell them and that there are two interested parties, the Louvre and the Rijksmuseum. One option is that the Rijksmuseum acquires both paintings. Since questions have been raised, among others by Mr Bosma, I would like to say straight away that my French colleague, Mrs Pellerin, had made a new proposal on 14 July; that is the other option. We sent the owner a letter together stating that we know that there are talks with the Rijksmuseum, but we also indicated that there is another possibility, namely that both governments, both countries, both museums, buy the two paintings together in order to get them into public hands and thus make them accessible to a wide audience. Since then, there have been a number of developments in which I will not deny that the group chairmen have also played a role. We agreed that we need to make sure those paintings are made public. The state of affairs is that we sent a letter to the Chamber on 21 September stating the amount of 80 million, which is now included in the supplementary budget. It outlines the option that the Rijksmuseum is trying to collect the remaining funds itself. The other option, which was still there, is to let both governments do it together. We are in good agreement with the French Government. I would stress that consultation with the French was always good; I have been in regular contact with the French Minister for Culture. We hope to be able to inform the Chamber as soon as possible about the final decision. However, in order to do so, we must be able to act. This debate therefore serves to enable us, as a government, to deal with the 80 million from the letter of 21 September. Otherwise, we can't make agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u41	Of course, I'm very curious what happens if the Rijksmuseum can't get that other 80 million together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u42	I said there are two options. That's what we're working on right now. The other option, which I make clear, was put forward by my French colleague and myself in the summer. This is the option to do it together, whereby both countries, both museums, jointly buy two paintings. In this unique case, we all want to avoid those paintings hanging on the wall somewhere private and perhaps very far away. Mr Pechtold has already outlined it, it is a complicated process. You can't share all the details of a government buy in advance. But of course we are willing to answer for it afterwards, as far as we can't do it now. We did that in the letter of 21 September and I am trying to do it now, as good and as bad as it is with the knowledge I can share.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u43	I wonder if all the possibilities have been explored to bring together the resources needed through private initiative. I understand that 12.5 million have already been raised by the Rijksmuseum. I wonder if the cabinet has made any efforts to increase the percentage of private initiative. That's my first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u44	You must have a beginning somewhere. You should not wait until the private resources are available and the artwork may have been sold to someone else in the meantime. We don't do it so often happy but, I would almost say, although as Minister of Culture I can think differently that as a government, as a state, we buy works of art. I would like to emphasise once again the very special situation in which we ourselves operate in a purchase contract with private third parties, and we do not just have these resources together by means of a collection action.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u45	The auctioneer behind me yells: then you have to make a start somewhere. I would like to ask the cabinet whether it is of the opinion that a start can be made if we are standing here today waving a cheque of EUR 80 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u46	You can always make a start with something and I'm sure something will come in, but I say that, given the time we have to come to a decision, we simply don't have that space. Then we run the risk that there will be no painting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u47	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u48	For the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u49	This process has been going on since 2013. I really wonder why the pressure has been increasing so much since a few days, weeks, for the reason 'it can end up in a room that doesn't get it out in the open'. I think it is important for me to make it clear that it is open to the public, but I think that pressure is being put on the House of Representatives, under the pretext that it can end up in the back rooms. In the meantime, however, not all efforts have been made to bring together the money through private initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u50	I repeat, it has to do with the complex situation of protecting such unique cultural heritage as this painting. It's not just something you like and you think "gosh, I'm gonna raise some money." There are also private parties who can make their own decisions. I can try to convince you, but I don't have the resources to bring someone on a different path. The time we have is simply limited. We have found the importance of protecting cultural heritage so important that we want to do everything we can now. This also means that it must now be financially regulated in the short term if we are to protect the cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u51	We can read in the newspaper that on 8 September there was talk about the option that the Netherlands would acquire two paintings. But at the same time, the article shows that there was also an option to share with France. How do you explain that this was not discussed on 8 September in the debate on the President-in-Office of the Council?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u52	I don't know, because I haven't been there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u53	But you knew there was an option.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u54	Of course I knew there was that option. I've always shared that with everyone. I would add that this was an option that my French colleague Mr Pellerin and I presented to the owners in order to avoid another option, namely a museum that can easily find 160 million. I have great admiration for the Rijksmuseum. I know this museum is capable of a lot, but getting 160 million together in a limited time is a huge task. So we have stated: there is another option and we want to know if that is an option for the owners. At least we would have more certainty that the paintings would remain in public hands and also in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u55	Afterwards, would it not have been better if these two options had been better viewed by those involved? Does the Minister now see opportunities to share the paintings?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u56	I have no signals that that information was not known to third parties, because I have never, as far as I have been in contact with everyone and with this Chamber, made a secret of it. Yes, we are in good consultation with the French. So I still see opportunities, but we must act quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u57	I'm trying to understand a little bit. In the General Reviews, Mr Pechtold said that the nation state has evaporated and no longer exists. The ideals of the ruling class in the Netherlands, of the government, are a Europe without borders. The Netherlands is not really relevant anymore. We no longer have borders, because everyone can enter and the Netherlands does not count. But when it comes to buying two paintings, suddenly it's "own Rembrandts first." Then suddenly it is a national interest again and our national identity suddenly resurfaces. Can the Minister for Culture tell me how that all relates to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u58	Yes. I am surprised, by the way, that Mr Bosma did not come up with that national cultural heritage in his contribution, because for all of us it is a work of art with which Rembrandt stands for a large part of the Dutch identity. Fortunately, we have never agreed that Europe should become an ambiguous cultural mass, but that you can preserve your own identity and your own cultural heritage. We also agree on this in good international consultation. That is what I am doing with my colleagues in Europe and in UNESCO. So it is also very nice that you have paintings that fit the Dutch tradition, not only in those of the painters but also in those of those who are depicted, namely the new bourgeoisie. It is therefore logical that they get a place and can be seen in other paintings of the same painter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u59	In any case, I am pleased that the Minister has distanced himself from Mr Pechtold's words in the General Reviews that the nation state has had its longest time. Well, I'm glad I did. However, it is also nice to have our national cultural heritage elsewhere. Then you go there. Then you go to the Louvre and you think, "Wow, Rembrandt over here!" This is often done by the Ministry to let a lot of Dutch artists do things abroad, to promote, etc. Then why do they have to come here? Or we could take the Thalys and check out the Louvre.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u60	That is a good suggestion from Mr Bosma and one does not exclude the other. I am very much in favour of more cultural heritage being exchanged and lent. That's what I'm advocating in the Netherlands. I have an active museum policy, so less remains in depot and museums are encouraged to lend works of art over and over again. This is also quite conceivable at international level, especially between about the two most renowned museums in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u61	But then we will not have to invest 80 million in Mr Pechtold's nasty nationalism.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u62	Perhaps it is worth investing money and therefore sometimes millions in vulnerable and very important cultural heritage. I think I've answered all the questions with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u63	The Minister of Finance stands up and runs to the microphone for his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u64	Mr. Chairman. There's not a lot of questions left for me. Questions have been asked about the processing in the budget states. That is why we have tabled supplementary budgets. In short, we are releasing 80 million by using resources from the purchase fund and by adjusting the estimates for dividends received from state participations next year. We regularly receive quarterly reports from our state-owned companies and see that developments there are extremely favourable. Those dividends are not coming in until next year, and we have put forward proposals in the budget states to bring those funds through a cash drawer to 2015, so that we can have the money already available in 2015. To Mr Bosma's question, who did not fully understand where the money came from, I say: this is how we do it. He specifically asked about the investment agenda. I admit that this explanation could have been more extensive. It concerns the investment agenda for the Tax Administration, where there is a lot of investment in ICT. For this, money will be available in the coming years, but also this year. At the rate of these investments we see delays and so we have made a cash drawer. The investment in the Tax Administration will be moved to 2016 and the additional dividend revenue in 2016 will be shifted to 2015. That's how we're releasing 80 million this year. The investment agenda therefore concerns the Tax Administration. It's a cash drawer. We continue to invest in the investment agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u65	Thank you for this. So as far as those state holdings are concerned, the Minister of Finance expects to get more money, if I understand correctly. So perhaps there is a windfall in the future, but it is about to be squashed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u66	No. We do this on the basis of quarterly figures, which we are simply familiar with. There is certainty about the results achieved. These are companies which are practically or entirely owned by the State. These results will therefore also translate into dividend revenues. These dividends are mostly paid and largely not paid in the current year but fall into the following financial year. They're dividends for this year. I see that these dividends will come in, but the fact is that they will come in in the next financial year. Then I am free to adjust the estimates to that and to bring that money to 2015. The opposite slide is then that of the investment agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u67	So, what kind of state participation would suddenly generate so much more money?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u68	There are several of them. TenneT, for example, is doing extremely well, but there are several. The same applies to the banks, although I do not know whether I will make Mr Bosma happy when I tell him what kind of profits are being made there. There, too, the results are extremely good. I'll walk by the other questions now. Mr Krol asked why there was no delay in spending the amount that is now being reserved. I understand his remark that he says: you must not spend that money until you have the whole picture around. That's how it's gonna be. As always, with a budget law, the Chamber only gives permission to a cabinet to spend the money. It is not the case that when the Chamber votes for it, I expect support from the Chamber; I am counting on it for the money actually spent. Of course, that money will not be released for this purpose until the picture is complete. The Minister of OCW has outlined the various possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u69	What happens to the money if the paintings do not come to the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u70	Then that money won't be spent either. That happens all the time, by the way. A budget is just a plan. Resources will then be reserved and a budget title will be created. We get permission to spend the money along certain lines, if it fits in with the policy. It happens all the time that that doesn't happen. That's a good thing, 'cause we'll be left with money. So if it doesn't happen, then that money won't be spent. However, our commitment is to keep it going, to make sure that the paintings will be on display in the Netherlands. Mr Van Dijk asked whether the budget would be modified. Yes, see the budget states. But maybe I misunderstood his question. Is the Netherlands saving money now because we only reserve 80 million? No. If we had to reserve the whole amount now, I'd still have to find 80 million somewhere. That would have been another challenge. We've covered this 80 million neatly. So there's money left? No. Is the money that's left going to other things in culture? No, because that money wasn't there. That is not our proposal at the moment either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u71	That was exactly the question. At the moment, it is not clear what exactly the transaction will look like. The cabinet is busy working on this, as Minister Dijsselbloem's colleague has just said. So we're gonna hear that one of these days. Then we also hear exactly what amount is released for these paintings. That could be, on behalf of the government, 80 million, but it could be less. I just wanted to highlight that it could also be less than 80 million and that the government is currently making 80 million available.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u72	That's right. Only Mr Bosma's explicit question about the 'behind the dikes' mentality remains. I'm always happy when I can talk about something other than money. If we have the chance to get such unique works to the Rijksmuseum, whether or not with the French, we must seize that opportunity. An internationalist attitude, often focused on European cooperation, does not have to translate itself into not being proud of its own cultural roots or history. That would be a great mistake of thinking. I think that Mr Bosma also sees this error of opinion in his own reasoning and that I have now helped him out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u73	I haven't seen the light yet, but I'm glad the Minister thinks with me. Because the Minister likes to talk about things other than money, I keep him talking about a non-financial subject. Are we going to buy the husband or wife from the couple?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u74	If it is to be done in cooperation with the French, its design will be communicated to the Chamber as soon as more information can be given, as the Minister for Education has said. The intention of all involved is, as I have heard, to keep the paintings together. This is culturally and historically crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u75	Are they both worth the same amount or is the man worth more than the woman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u76	Or the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u77	We can only put this question in this company to Mr Pechtold, who is the only one who could really give an evaluation of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u78	That's entrapment, and I won't allow that question. Mr Van Dijk, I can see you too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u79	I'm not going into these relational matters. Is the Minister ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u80	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u81	I'd like to ask one more question. The deal, as it now stands in the letter of 21 September, is 80 million on behalf of the government and 80 million from fundraising. Should France participate in this purchase, is it the commitment of this cabinet to keep the government share of the 160 million as small as possible? Is the cabinet not going to lift the part of private recruitment so that the cabinet still has to spend 80 million, even if only one painting is bought?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u82	All we ask permission for is to put up a maximum of 80 million on behalf of the Dutch State to make these paintings public. This is a maximum amount and the decision only gives us permission; it has not been said that we are going to do it. The Chamber knows our intention. This amount could be lower. We discussed contributions on their part with the Rijksmuseum and relevant friends' foundations and funds in an earlier phase. That conversation is still going on. I think that is legitimate, because why should it come all the way from the State if other recognized Rembrandt lovers can contribute? It is our intention to make a contribution from those private resources as well. Thus, the amount of 80 million would not be entirely borne by the State. I hope for support from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u83	Can the Minister tell us when he thinks we're getting word about this transaction?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u84	Only after it is clear how the purchase is going to take place will private funds indicate what they can and want to contribute. That's the way it's done with these things all the time. I think that's reasonable. They also want to know what they are contributing to, of course. We think there are possibilities. I think it's legitimate, too. Why should only the government finance this? Others are also very involved in Rembrandt and the cultural sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u85	This put an end to the government's first term. Is there a need for a second term? I see a yaknog. We shall proceed immediately to the second deadline and I shall give the floor to Mr Krol, also because the Minister has not yet responded to the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u86	I'd still like to suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u87	Mr. Chairman. We don't know whether we'll be able to buy one, two or no paintings, or whether they'll be hanging between those cities in Paris, Amsterdam or alternate. However, a budget has already been adjusted fairly easily and very quickly, for 80 million. I wish that were the case more often. 50PLUS does not understand this, especially when there are so many other urgent issues that require money, however unique this cultural heritage may be. There is no misunderstanding about that, but as a Dutchman I am at least as proud as I could admire these works of art elsewhere in Europe. That is why I have tabled an amendment which has been distributed. I'm also filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is not clear whether the Netherlands is purchasing none, one or two Rembrandts;]] [[Whereas in today's debate, EUR 80 million will be made available for the purchase of two Rembrandts;]] [[calls on the government, the amount now released and not spent on the purchase of Rembrandts, to reserve as an additional budget for nursing care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34285-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u88	I can imagine colleagues saying: do not spend the money. However, you cross a line when you say: spend it on care for the elderly. Let me turn it around. Mr Krol says: as long as it remains in public possession and in Europe. Take the Night's Watch. Let's estimate it carefully: 500 million? Would we sell it for half a billion dollars and spend that money on the purpose he proposes in his motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u89	"Soul" is not at all mentioned. It is an amount for which we are now suddenly able to change a budget miraculously quickly. However, when I see how many elderly people, but also others in care, have to tie the strings together, I say: were we only as inventive as we need money for those groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u90	I think we are. Every year, a billion more is spent on care. I am trying to include Mr Krol in my reasoning. I can imagine you saying, "Don't spend this money on it." However, if you say what we can spend the money on even more, when it comes to culture, the end will be lost, because then we could have a big sale for all the goals that Mr Krol has just outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u91	You can't hear me pleading that sale. However, I have noticed that a large amount of money is being released very easily. We have also seen together that this has been very difficult in recent months when it comes to elderly people and care. I make that choice, and I do it with complete conviction, Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u92	Mr Bosma has waived the floor. I call Mr Van Klaveren.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u93	Mr. Chairman. As I stated in my first term, Rembrandt belongs, as far as my group is concerned, in the Netherlands, in the Rijksmuseum. Not in Arab Gulf states, not in China, but here with us. That's not an elitist point of view. It is only elitist to suggest that one should fly to New York to enjoy a Rembrandt there. Again, Rembrandt belongs in the Netherlands. It is our cultural heritage and we believe that it should primarily benefit the Dutch population, here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u94	Mr Van Dijk also waives his second term. I call Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u95	Mr. Chairman. I have a few comments to make. First of all, I would like to say that I have never seen a supplementary budget go through the House of Representatives so quickly. There are already group chairmen of the First Chamber standing by to coat this through their Chamber. I am particularly sorry to see that we are falling into the Rothschild family's sales tricks. It's not for nothing that this family has become so rich. In addition, I would like to say the following. This process has been going on since 2013. There are still a lot of problems in the Netherlands in 2015 in terms of unemployment, care and social security. I find it particularly regrettable that we can now spend so much money on paintings in such a short period of time. As far as we are concerned, this can also come from private initiative. All in all, we will support Mr Krol's amendment. But all those parties that say rich people are getting richer and poor people are getting poorer, as far as we're concerned, can scratch themselves behind the ears.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u96	I give the floor to Mr Pechtold, if he appreciates it. He won't. I give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber. She doesn't want it either. This brings to an end the second term of office. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance. Will you also respond to the amendment that has been tabled? That's what you're gonna do, nod, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u97	Mr. Chairman. I am only going to discuss the amendment and the motion, if that is all right with you. However, I have two preliminary remarks in response to what Mr Kuzu said. First, he made a comment about the current owner. I really want to distance myself from that. I thought it was inappropriate. Secondly, he has claimed that a supplementary budget has never been adopted so quickly. It happens, however, that a supplementary budget passes through the Chamber without discussion, as a hammer piece. However, this supplementary budget is being discussed, in all openness, and that is fine. Mr Krol's amendment is clear in itself. The 80 million increase in the Culture article is being reversed again. I don't quite understand the second part. The amount of revenue, which I think should be the purchase fund, will be reduced by 30 million. However, the intention is clear. Mr Krol also said that he would use the money differently in the Navy's note if the cabinet did not. The Cabinet dissuade this amendment, because it is genuinely of the opinion that we have a unique opportunity to add two exceptional paintings to our heritage, which they have always been part of. They just hung out in a place no one was supposed to look at. We now have the unique opportunity to change that situation. Now I come to the motion, which is in line with the amendment. In the motion, the government is asked to reserve the amount as extra money for nursing care. I would like to make a comment on that. We just had the General Reviews. They were about the total of the state budget. That's over 200 billion. It is amazing that I have not seen any amendments there to transfer money to nursing care, for example from the cultural budget or from the proceeds of state participations. Those are clear political choices. At that time, Mr Krol did not make any proposal along that line. However, now that money is going to something else, he says, rather opportunistically, that that money has to go to nursing care. Then conduct the debate at the General Reviews to the full extent and give your priorities to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u98	During that debate, I was completely unaware of the fact that you could so easily free up money so quickly. Thanks, however, for the tip; I am happy to take it into account in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u99	There is also room at the AFB to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u100	There is certainly room at the General Financial Reviews. There will also be a cultural budget. I will not, of course, call on Mr Krol to seize the cash for other purposes. My point, however, is that there is a unique opportunity here. That is why we are coming up with a supplementary budget so exceptionally quickly. However, when you suddenly say that you want to spend it differently, it's amazing that you didn't come up with a proposal earlier, for example in the General Reviews. Anyway, I'm not guessing the motion. If we did not spend the money on purchasing the Rembrandt's money, our intention is well known, it simply flows back to the purchase fund and the budget of Finance. The purchase fund therefore benefits the cultural sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-28.u101	At 6.15 p.m. this evening, we shall be voting on the budget, the amendment and the motion.
