ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. On 6 April, the Dutch people will go to the ballot box to vote on the association agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. It will be the first time that such an advisory referendum is held on the basis of the referendum law, which entered into force on 1 July. A citizens' initiative, united under the name GeenPeil, collected no less than 427.939 valid signatures, a great achievement, made possible by the tireless commitment of thousands of volunteers. Personally, I have been surprised by the mood of many of my colleagues in the Chamber. It seemed to them that this was an undesirable interference of the citizens in their decision-making and that, while these citizens have only made use of an instrument that we representatives of the people have given them. We must not forget that the referendum law on which it is based has been adopted by both chambers. The PVV Group cannot escape the impression that many parties saw this referendum law as a sham, because the minimum number of signatures that had to be obtained was considered unfeasible............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Now that a citizens' initiative has proved successful, it seems to be disappointing. In any case, this law is now in place and we have a duty to ensure that it is implemented carefully. The PVV is very happy with the success of GeenPeil. We are in favour of referenda and we hope that we will get more in the future. We also see referenda as an excellent means of narrowing the gap between citizens and politics. In the meantime, the joy has replaced our concerns. For months now, the Minister has been clinching with the VNG on the budget for the organisation of the referendum. This is a reason for the PVV to challenge the Minister once again. The VNG says that the municipalities need twice as much money to organise the referendum properly, with as many polling rooms as in regular Lower House elections. The Minister refuses to make that extra money available and does not find it difficult that fewer voting rooms will be available. What is the latest state of play in the talks with the UNG? The Minister has previously expressed the fear that we are about to find ourselves in a situation where there will be four to five referendums a year and the costs will soon amount to EUR 0.25 million a year. We haven't got that far yet. For the time being, only one is on the agenda, and it will be less than four months from now. Preparations are in full swing. The PVV Group is deeply concerned about the reports that several municipalities have now decided to set up fewer voting rooms than during regular elections and that a large number of municipalities are still considering whether to set up the same number of voting rooms. That is a downright insult to the citizen. We understand the Minister's concerns about rising costs and we are open to a discussion on how costs can remain as low as possible, but not now. By holding this discussion at the moment, the careful implementation of the referendum on 6 April is under threat. The PVV wants to prevent that. We ask the Minister to make the extra money available once to the municipalities, so that sufficient voting rooms can be set up. Then, after 6 April, let us have a quiet debate on the costs and the budget for possible future referenda. It is the first time that an advisory referendum is held in this form, so it is essential that implementation is flawless. People still have to get used to referenda, and that is why it is particularly important that they can just vote where they are always going to vote and that they should not go half the city for it. It may be different from regular elections, but this referendum is certainly no less important. During the examination of these budgetary states in the House of Representatives, amendments sought to regulate the additional funding for the referendum. The PVV wants this to be voted on in this House, and that is why we have translated the amendments into a motion as literally as possible. I hope that colleagues in this House understand that we have a unique opportunity here to narrow the gap between citizens and politics. Each party says it is genuinely concerned about this. Well, this is their chance to show the citizens of the Netherlands that they mean business. For the sake of the busy agenda, I will table the motion immediately in the first term. I would like to see a roll-call vote on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u3	That's what you're asking, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u4	That's what I'm asking! The President shall: Mr Van Weerdenburg, Mr Markuszower, Mr Van Strien, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Kok and Mr Kops proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas municipalities should be given full opportunity to organise a referendum properly;]] [[Whereas it is important to avoid, for example, that municipalities reduce the number of voting rooms as a measure of austerity;]] [[Whereas the financial gap should be closed between what municipalities claim to need and what the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations is prepared to make available;]] [[calls on the government to make the additional €22,200,000 available to municipalities for the organisation of the referendum on 6 April, or to use the financial coverage from the two Koser Kaya/Van Raak amendments (34300-B, No. 9 and 34300-VII, No. 19) or by seeking an alternative financing option,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VII-C]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u5	Yeah, that's right. Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u6	Okay, thank you. The Minister has the opportunity to answer directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u7	Madam President. Let me start by saying that I agree with Mrs Van Weerdenburg that now there is an advisory referendum law, which must also be properly implemented. As I said in the House of Representatives, a high-quality referendum must be organised with adequate access for voters. However, this does not mean that municipalities on the autopilot have to implement the complete programme for Lower House elections. They cost about 42 million at a time. The consultation referendum in 2005 had a very high turnout of 63%. According to Deloitte's calculations, this cost 23 million at the time. The cabinet now has 25 million for the referendum, of which 20 million for the municipalities. Why can an advisory referendum be cheaper than Lower Parliamentary elections? There are no signs everywhere with all posters on it, no lists need to be delivered to everyone at home with long rows of candidates and the voices are easier, so you get shorter rows and less time and space. Moreover, it is very important that the count goes much faster in the evening, because it is only a matter of yes and no counting. The cabinet does not find it difficult in advance if there are a little less polling stations than in the Lower House elections. I've just inventoried it. For example, at the Central Station in The Hague there are already two polling stations and at the city hall in Rotterdam three. In Amsterdam, the norm is that there must be a polling station within five minutes of each address. I wonder if eight minutes' walk would be difficult. It seems small, but it adds up if you multiply it by a number of consultative referenda a year. That is why I think it is right for municipalities to do their work in the awareness of the costs themselves and therefore not to be promised that whatever costs they incur, those who will always be reimbursed by the Empire. I am prepared, especially since this is the first time, to have an independent investigation carried out and to assess the cost of organising an adequate referendum. Once that investigation is completed, I'll get back to you on that. I can also come back to it in the regular administrative consultation financial relations. If you will allow me, Mr President, in my first term, I shall also refer immediately to the opinion on the motion. I'm dissuading the motion. Without wishing to enter into a state-law debate, it is by means of a budget debate to table a motion of an amendment previously rejected in the Lower House without precedent. I reject the motion simply because it would introduce some sort of right of amendment. In addition, I refer to the substantive arguments I have just given.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u8	The Minister says it is okay if there are fewer polling stations and if there are eight minutes instead of six minutes, there are still enough polling stations. However, municipalities have already said that they halve the number of voting rooms, because otherwise they will not make it financially. The minister's gonna talk in eight minutes, but how's he gonna check that it's eight minutes everywhere? Can he guarantee that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u9	First of all, I see no reason why the number of voting rooms should be halved. I have just given four arguments why I think that costs are lower in advance than in the case of Parliamentary elections. And then for the last bit of financial difference you could take a critical look at the number of polling stations. I have also mentioned examples of three polling stations at the same location that apparently have to cope with the capacity and the long queues, to help people to cast their votes, if they find those notes complicated with all those long lists of names. So I think we can still take a critical look at whether that's all necessary. That the municipalities should do so and that it is really not necessary to drastically reduce the number of polling stations as mentioned. I would also like to call on them not to do so, which is also their responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u10	I understand that, but how noncommittal is that call when municipalities say they don't have the money to pay those people or to rent those rooms? How long are you going to go on with the municipalities about this? We're gonna have a month before the referendum, before April 6th. Do you have a deadline?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u11	I started by saying that these referenda should be properly organised, as should elections. This is one of the tasks of local government. I have to knock on white wood for a while, but let's say the cabinet falls and new Parliamentary elections are organized. This will result in a one-off 42 million in costs not reimbursed, because it is part of the task that the municipalities receive from the lump sum. In addition, we are prepared to add 20 million on this occasion. In view of the arguments I have put forward, that seems to me to be reasonable. I have already promised that we will have an independent investigation as to whether it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u12	Finally, Mrs Van Weerdenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u13	Finally. So you don't have a fixed schedule for that? You have not decided: this is the end date, then there must be agreement, otherwise? I do not yet hear that there is much progress in the talks. That concerns the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u14	It is simply part of the core tasks of the municipalities to organise this properly. We're assuming that's what we're gonna do. I have just mentioned that in Amsterdam a certain distance to each address is apparently used, but these are local considerations. The Empire will never go in there. It is part of the responsibility of the municipalities to organise this referendum in such a way that it is accessible to their citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u15	Thank you. Before we get to the second term of office, I shall suspend the sitting for three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u16	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. I look forward to the vote on the motion. I hope that colleagues have the courage to choose to narrow the gap between citizens and politics a little bit. This is a unique opportunity. I call on them all to vote in favour of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u17	Thank you, Mrs Van Weerdenburg. I see the Minister shaking his head. He doesn't need a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u18	We have come to deal with the legislative proposals. I'll do that by bill. The motion was asked for a roll-call vote, not on the legislative proposals. First, the legislative proposal Adoption of the budget statements of the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations for 2016 (34300-VII). Does anyone want a vote on that? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-14-eerstekamer-3.u19	I shall suspend the sitting for a single minute in anticipation of the Secretary of State for Finance, but only after I have wished the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations good holidays. After all, we will not see him again in 2015.
