ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment to this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Labour Group, I would like to make a few comments on the proposed amendment to the Childcare and Quality Act. These comments focus on the effort obligation for child centres with less than 50 children and on the alternative parental consultation at these centres if it is not possible to set up a parent committee. Following the entry into force of this bill, child centres with fewer than 50 children are no longer obliged to have a parent committee, as well as host agencies with less than 50 host parents. They do, however, have an obligation to do so. When parents say they want such a commission, they simply come, regardless of the number of children being taken care of. My group agrees with the premise that having a parent committee is the desired situation. At the same time, my group does not want to close its eyes to the current situation that, despite many attempts, some centres are unable to set up such a parent committee. These centres do not comply with the law at the moment. Now that the legislative proposal before us sets the limit for centres that accommodate less than 50 children, we have asked in the preliminary study how many child centres would be. The answer shows that this concerns about one third of all child centres. That's actually quite a lot. The factsheet of the branch organisation Childcare shows that there were about 12,000 locations in the first half of 2014. If you take a third of them, which means that you no longer have a compulsory parenting committee, then you would come to about 4,000 child centers. We also assume that this means that these are child centres that can accommodate about 20 to 25 children a day. We calculate that as follows. The Dutch practice is that there are hardly any children who receive care five days a week. A children's center providing care for 50 children will therefore not have 50 children a day. We would like to ask the Minister whether we are calculating this approximately correctly. Are these child centers with about 20 to 25 child places a day? The desired situation remains that these smaller children's centres, smaller host parents' offices and, by the way, small children's playrooms do have a parent's committee. The holder or entrepreneur should also strive for this. That obligation is laid down in Article 1.58. The answer to our questions shows that the supervisor, in this case the GGD, assesses whether that effort obligation is met. Some of our questions then went further and focused on the criteria used by the GGD in assessing that effort obligation, which we would like to clarify. They were questions aimed at the feasibility of the bill. How's that gonna work in practice? The supervisory authority checks compliance with the laws and regulations. For that, it is very important that the legislator is clear about its intention. In addition, clarification on this issue is important for the childcare sector and for parents. In the reply, but also in the explanatory memorandum, it is stated that supervision by the GGD is subject to two criteria. On the one hand, the commitment must be directed towards new and existing parents, and on the other hand, it must be a continuous effort. So not once and then ten years no more. These are both elements that the PvdA Group considers important. In our opinion, this can take shape, for example, by pointing out to all parents, twice a year, in January and in September, but it may also be other moments, in a newsletter, the desire to establish such a parent committee. If the alternative parental participation is designed with general evenings, to be in conversation with each other, we also think it is important to put this issue back on the agenda on those evenings. But we still see a third and a fourth criterion, which we would like to refer to the Minister in the hope that he will respond to. The third element is that we consider an effort that is expressed both on paper and orally to be important. So not only a newsletter, but also a parent's evening; not only a note at the door, but also a conversation with the teacher. So both on paper and orally. As a fourth element, we consider it very important to establish together that a holder who has several small child centres could set up a joint parent committee. This has also been mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, but as an alternative parent participation, not as a way of meeting the effort obligation. Because if a holder has several child centres, each providing shelter for less than 50 children in its own right, a joint parent committee would really be a solution, especially if these smaller locations are housed in the same municipality. Does the Minister agree with us? Does a holder with a joint parent committee for several child centres fulfil that obligation? Or is there still a need for a continuous and parent-oriented demand for such a parent committee? One final point. The PvdA Group asked in the preparatory study whether the conduct of a survey could also be seen as an alternative form of parental consultation. I would like to read the answer: "The supervisor will assess whether the institution is making sufficient effort and whether the chosen form of an internal survey will adequately safeguard parental involvement and advisory rights." That's not an answer at all. Does it make sense to ask again? We think: let us say what we think. On behalf of the PvdA Group, I would like to say that the discussion is of obvious importance to us. Such a discussion can, of course, be conducted on the basis of survey results, but only a survey as an effort obligation seems to us to be insufficient. As far as we are concerned, the joint discussion is an important criterion for the supervisory authority to consider. Because with a joint conversation, you approach the ideal situation of a parent committee the most. I would like to ask the Minister if he agrees with us. These were some of the PvdA Group's questions about an otherwise fine proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. Let me also begin by saying that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance welcomes this proposal. We certainly intend to vote in favour of it. The reason why we have asked for this brief debate is that we found that on a number of points in the reply were given rather evasive or vague answers. It did not seem to us to make any sense to ask these questions again, but to do so more usefully in a debate. First of all, I would like to thank you for the clarity that was there about parental participation crèches. It has become clear that they will not be left with impossible requirements that are not tailored to their situation and that the Minister has said that failure to comply with the current proposal for parental participation crèches will be tolerated until the entry into force of the proposal for parental participation crèche. There are two points on which we found the answer unsatisfactory. The first is that Mr King also mentioned why it is not more compelling that a joint parent committee should be set up in child centres with multiple establishments in one place, each with less than 50 places, if it is not possible to form a parent committee per location. The second is more important. Both larger and smaller child centres have an effort obligation to reach parent committees. If smaller child centres fail to form a parent committee, there are alternatives. Mrs King has given a very detailed answer to the question of what the criteria are and how to ensure that this effort is maximised. I'd like to talk about the larger child centers. What happens if a larger daycare center fails to form a parent committee? So what's the consequence? We have not actually received an answer to that question. What happens then? Is there a child centre without a parent's commission, but with a note to the GGD that the requirements are not met? Are there sanctions? Is it possible to close the daycare for that reason? Who decides what these sanctions are and what measures should be taken? Do the GGDs have freedom of policy in that? Does that apply to national standards? If it is clear that a larger child centre really does not succeed in forming a parent committee, to what extent do alternatives, such as in the smaller centres, play a role? Unless the Minister says that it simply never happens that larger child centres do not have a parent committee, I think these are relevant questions that also need to be answered. Surely it can't be that a large child center gets away with the observation that everything has been done, but it doesn't succeed? Surely it is not possible for such a centre to receive only a note that does not comply with the law, whereas smaller centres of children than all kinds of effort have obligations for alternative forms of parental participation? We would very much like to have answered this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-7.u4	I now have to ask the formal question as to whether one of the other Members wishes to speak in the first term. I think the answer to that will be clear, namely that this is not the case. The Minister states that he needs five minutes to prepare his response. Then we limit it to that. We know he can think fast, so we'll move on in five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-7.u5	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to defend this bill here. I appreciate that very much. Firstly, it is good to note that a good implementation of the proposal requires that the childcare field is well prepared. It's gonna take time. I would also like to give the field that time, so I intend to have the entry into force from 1 January instead of 1 July. That is a general remark. I would like to thank the various groups for their positive contribution. I shall begin by answering Mrs King's questions. The calculation of about 50 children is correct. Most kids aren't full-time at day care, so it amounts to 50 kids a week. Mrs King has introduced a number of criteria regarding the assessment of the commitment of daycare holders with fewer than 50 children who are unable to set up a parent committee. It asks what is the reason why these criteria have not been extended much further. It is important that this is an effort obligation. The assessment of whether an effort obligation is met is really something you want to leave to the supervisor. The supervisor shall assess whether it has been met on the basis of a demonstrable effort, taking into account the circumstances of the case. From my role, I cannot enter into that assessment or into the criteria used for this, beyond the criteria quoted by Mrs King herself. Moreover, the obligation on the holder to provide this information does not end when a parent committee or an alternative form of information has been set up. That effort obligation is a permanent obligation. It sees the purpose of the law, the involvement of parents, and not only, and certainly not especially, on the formal side of the parent committee or no parent committee. If a holder meets the limits of the bill and the effort obligation and still fails to set up a parent committee, he may set up an alternative form. The alternative form of parental consultation chosen must be sufficient to ensure that parents' right of advice is respected. These can be different forms, such as a combined parenting committee for several smaller locations. Mrs De Boer van GroenLinks just mentioned this in her contribution. It is for the supervisor to assess for that individual holder in that particular case whether it meets the criteria set, taking into account the circumstances. I take with me Mrs De Boer's question as to why it has not become an obligation to set up a joint parent committee at several small locations. It depends on whether this actually implements the parents' right of advice. Suppose you have a tiny daycare center on location x and on location y a giant bso for soccer teenagers. Then there is the question as to whether the parents of that tiny day care centre are really best served in that case with the joint parent committee. It could be, it can't be ruled out. On the contrary, however, we want to emphasise the obligation for the holder to be checked by the supervisor. That can take into account the circumstances of the case and perhaps say that in that case it should be done in a different way to do justice to the parents of that small nursery. In many cases, of course, it is a good solution and that is how we look at it. Finally, Mrs Koning asks me whether I agree that room for the joint discussion should be explicitly taken into account by the supervisor, both when assessing the commitment of effort and when assessing possible alternative parental participation. In both cases, I think it is up to the supervisor to assess whether the conditions laid down have been met in that particular case, taking into account the circumstances. However, I wholeheartedly support the need for parental involvement and the value of a joint discussion in this context. There's no question about that for me. The question was also whether a survey would be sufficient. Intuitively not at all. It's about the conversation, the actual contact. A survey could be the basis for that. However, I have not chosen to include even more formal requirements now, because that actually detracts from the phenomenon of the commitment of effort. The history of law will undoubtedly be consulted by all these parents, and they will undoubtedly also read the minutes of our deliberations. That will then be all right. I come to Mrs De Boer's questions. I would also like to thank her for the positive basic attitude towards this bill. I have discussed the question about the joint parent committee. She also asked about the nurseries with more than 50 children, who are therefore not entitled to an alternative interpretation. Well, the answer is that these daycare centres then do not comply with the law. This means that, on the advice of the supervisor, the municipality can start to maintain. This enforcement can have different levels of sharpness. That will then be included in inspection reports, so there will be consequences. So it's not a non-committal choice where the little ones have to do their best incredibly, while the big daycare centers can say: sorry, but it doesn't work. No, if it doesn't work, that could lead to enforcement by the municipality, on the advice of the supervisor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-7.u6	I have no idea when it comes to enforcement if a daycare center doesn't manage to get into a parenting committee. Of course, you can issue a fine. Then you may have formally enforced the law, but you have not yet contributed to achieving the goal. That's where my struggle is. How can you ensure that enforcement also contributes to the goal that you ultimately have with the law, namely parental involvement? To what extent does this have a role to play in whether maximum efforts have been made or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-7.u7	Of course, the doctrine of general versus specific prevention applies. If you impose a fine on a daycare center, I do not think that this is a very good way to promote parental participation in that daycare center. However, I think it will have a huge impact on all the other larger daycare centres. I'm sure they're gonna do their best to get this done. The assumption in the law is that it is really reasonable that a daycare center with more than 50 children succeeds in forming such a parent committee. That is an assumption which is also supported by practice. This is also evident in our consultations of the practice. Such a larger daycare facility will be all the more successful, because parent committees in the new system will also discuss the relevant issues. This concerns the real quality, so precisely those things why parents entrust their children to such a daycare center. It is therefore important that there should be such a sanction. It is, of course, up to the municipality to determine whether, on the advice of the supervisor, they really want to maintain, but I think it will indeed contribute to the field's efforts in general to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-7.u8	For the sake of clarity, and perhaps in order to avoid a second deadline, I would ask whether it is also conceivable that a supervisor should advise and a municipality should decide, as part of that enforcement, to impose a child centre to introduce alternative forms of parental involvement. These alternative forms could then exist alongside a parent committee, or they could exist instead of such a parent committee as long as it fails to reach such a parent committee. Is it possible for the supervisor to advise that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-7.u9	That is certainly conceivable. Strictly speaking, you could say that this is counter-empty, because we want in the law that there is a parent committee. However, we have the second-line supervision of the municipalities. The education inspection must check that municipalities comply with the law sufficiently, on the advice of the supervisor, and then continue to enforce it. I cannot imagine that the education inspection would give a huge torch to a municipality that, on the advice of the supervisor, would choose such a practical solution with a daycare holder who really wants it. Of course, that's not what the law says. The law is really meant to force the unwilling holder, not to interfere with the actual strenuous holder, even when it comes to a larger nursery. But I say again to the daycare providers who are now following this debate and now think that there is a loophole in the law at this point, that there is no such loophole. However, we must always look at the application of the law to see whether it is reasonable. That is why I can give an affirmative answer here. So much for my contribution, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-7.u10	Thank you. We have arrived at the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-7.u11	Mr. Chairman. My group strongly believes that municipalities will do what they want. We also believe that the GGDs will do what they are for. The room for local conditions is therefore given to these important players. Nevertheless, we are very pleased that the Minister says that he, too, understands that room for discussion is a very logical criterion. The aim of the law is parental participation, preferably through a parent committee. We therefore believe that this short debate has clarified more than would have been possible with a second written round. I have no further question for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-7.u12	Mr. Chairman. I also have a very short contribution to make in the second term. I very much welcome the Minister's remark that the obligation of effort applies to the purpose of the law, i.e. the involvement of parents, and that this is not just about the formal requirement of parental participation. I think it's important to think about that. I share the Minister's view that it is very important for larger nurseries to set an explicit standard. Those daycare centers must be made clear that that committee must be there. I only hope that in the daycare centres where this does not happen for one reason or another, alternative forms of parental involvement will also be developed, possibly alongside another sanction. We are not here with only a sanction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-7.u13	In the second term on the part of the Chamber, the Minister now has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-7.u14	Mr President, no further questions have been asked to me in the second term. So I don't want to keep you any longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-eerstekamer-7.u15	The bill is passed without a vote.
