ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u1	The President shall:
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u2	Thank you for the excellent slip, Mr President. The Secretary of State for Social Affairs must first of all deal with employment if it is possible. If she wants to turn that around in her department, that's a possibility. Mr. Chairman. We have tabled an amendment to this law which provides that the UPOs, the annual statements that pensioners or active persons receive from their pension fund, are to be stored. What if your e-mailbox disappears, if you haven't noticed an e-mail, or if, as happened in my region, there's another cable company that has all the e-mail addresses dropped at once. A pension fund can also send the UPO to the wrong e-mail address; then it does not break the law. In those cases, you still have your pension statement with this amendment. Your pension statement indicates how much money you're entitled to. The pension is one of your most important claims. For many people it is the most important financial claim, perhaps after their own home, that they have. So you don't want to lose the message about that. Especially if you change a few times in your career and the pension fund or insurance company where the pension is placed merges or other things happen, because then pensions lose. I can give examples of people who have done this in the past for hours. We don't put that past right anymore, but for the future, we want to make it right. Of course, I very much hope that my amendment will be adopted and that the Secretary of State will see something in this amended amendment, which incorporates all the points made by the department. Then I can even withdraw this motion. In case that doesn't happen, I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that pension administrators will now be allowed to send pension information digitally and will do so massively;]] [[noting that it is important to ensure that digitally transmitted legal documents are provided securely to the pension participant, to which significant and long-term financial rights are often derived;]] [[Considering that digital transmission of pension information entails the real risk that this information may be less adequately noticed by the pension participant between a multitude of e-mail messages compared to information sent by post and not by default stored digitally by it as a document to be kept;]] [[noting that the National Pension Register has no retention function, but that information on accumulated and to be built-up pension claims only shows as derived information from the latest available UPO (Uniform Pension Statement);]] [[Calls on the Government to explore how pension information can be centrally transmitted and maintained for a long time, on the basis of principles such as linking to the bsn, access via DigiD, authorisation, central and independent detention, and to inform the Chamber of 1 September 2015 about the possibilities and, if possible, to put forward a concrete proposal for the long-term storage of UPOs so that participants have greater legal certainty,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34008-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u3	It would be a shame if we were finished after one speaker, so I have a question for Mr Omtzigt. In the debate we tabled a motion which was co-signed by Mr Omtzigt. On the motion and certainly the amendments, we have had an interrupting debate. The motion tabled earlier calls on the government to consider ways of harmonising and bringing together the various information channels in the future. Then I indicated that the motion should be read in such a way that the digital provision of Pension 1-2-3 and the UPO per individual should be kept on the pension statement. Can Mr Omtzigt tell us what the difference is between the approach of the motion that I tabled and the motion that he has just tabled?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u4	I will wholeheartedly support the motion tabled, but it does not contain any explicit retention. It is that retention function that is very important. In my amendment, the retention function is very specific up to 50 years. When the new UPO is loaded within the Pension Viewer Foundation, the old information is automatically deleted. Then you can harmonise, but I'm talking about the storage and storage function. This is particularly important where pension funds merge or insurers are taken over by other insurers or a pension fund is re-insured. I mentioned the example of what is happening at the ABP. I'll know where to call. With your bsn you come a long way. But if the legal form changes, if you change jobs every now and then at the beginning of your career, it's good to be able to determine your rights afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u5	I think we have the same intention. Pension 1-2-3 and UPOs must be kept on an accessible page for the participants. That is the thrust of the motion that has been tabled before, as I say to the Secretary of State. I think she has already responded to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u6	This amendment and this motion are the electronic shoebox of Omtzigt. On paper, it always gets in the wrong way, and Mr Omtzigt wants to avoid that. That's very sympathetic to me. A quarter of an hour ago, Mr Omtzigt came up with an amended amendment. I have not yet been able to put the amendments together, but has there been much change or can I believe Mr Omtzigt on his blue eyes that these are technical changes on the part of the Ministry, so that I do not have to put the amendments in letter by letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u7	Yes. The amendment makes technical changes. This was mainly due to two things that had accidentally fallen out of it, because I put a piece of law on the place of another article of law. Besides, I'm gonna bring in the pension message box. It also had to be mentioned in two other places in the law. In this respect, Mr Ulenbelt may regard this as a technical change. The core doesn't stay the same. I thank the Ministry for pointing this out to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u8	Then it sounds like a great electronic shoebox from Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u9	And it's also in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u10	Finally, I have a question. I have dived a little deeper into the case that Mr Ulenbelt mentioned in the first term, namely the ABP. Mr Ulenbelt has also tabled a motion on this subject. It appears to be the text of Article 7 of Annex K. You can explain that text differently. The participants were never informed and yet their supplement expired overnight, without being aware of it, unless they knew the pension regulations by heart. So it wasn't on their pension statement either. I challenge the Secretary of State if she knows the pension regulations of her own pension fund by heart. I ask the Secretary of State if she wants to understand herself with the ABP, also because the fund put the blame on her "real" shoes. That was not nice, because this is definitely something the ABP itself has done. I ask the Secretary of State to turn to the AFM, because this is a typical case of informing about a, while b is happening. The person who is the victim is the pensioner, who could not reasonably have known this. I would like to add one thing which disappoints Mr Ulenbelt. We will not vote for compensation. It's the only fund that does this. If we are going to compensate for what is happening at the ABP, there are other things, such as the pension rebates, which I would also like to compensate. I say in all honesty that we didn't do that either. I think the problem should be put back on the sign of the ABP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u11	Does Mr Ommzigt want the AFM to rebuke the ABP for misinformation, with which it is over and the people have lost their money? Or is he really planning on compensating people somehow? Surely the CDA cannot allow €100, €200 and sometimes €300 from one day to the next, which you had always expected, to be cancelled?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u12	It is even worse, because it is mainly about the people with whom it has been cut down completely. If it was partially reduced, namely €150, the supplement will remain, as I understand it. You will continue to be entitled to a supplement. But I think we just have a supervisor to look into that. If we intervene publicly in the pension regulations of the individual pension funds, we will get closer to a state pension fund. However, it is a very relevant problem. That is why we have also asked the Secretary of State to contact the ABP. I wonder what happened to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u13	Then the ABP may be spit on his jacket, but for the people nothing changes, so I understand from your attitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u14	This is a good opportunity for the AFM to indicate whether rights can also be derived from statements provided and information not provided. If I send someone a pension statement, which says annually how much I get, and if that amount is cut suddenly, without it being announced in advance, I do not rule out a transitional period. It's determined by the AFM, so I'll give her here. What other right can I derive from a pension statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u15	I think the Secretary of State can answer directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u16	Mr. Chairman. In this case, I would like to thank three members of the Chamber for their contributions, Mr Omtzigt first. I will respond immediately to the motion, because the amendment has not really changed, and I did not advise against it. I'll stick with that. In the motion in part No. 29 is asked to explore how pension information could be centrally protected and long-term. I would advise against this motion, because the implementation of this motion would now require a proper investment in a new vehicle, while there are good alternatives. I would like to draw your attention to the own message boxes of some pension administrators. There is also the mailbox of my.overheid.nl. This message box has a long-term storage function. In addition, I would point out to the Chamber that this bill already requires the necessary efforts from the various funds. The pension register should also be extended in the coming period. It takes time, and it shouldn't be rushed. In addition, there is indeed a motion by Mrs Lodders of the VVD and others calling on the cabinet to'synchronise' the three vehicles, if I may say so. Of course, this can be said to mean that we are also looking at these kinds of functions. I did not advise against this motion and I would not be surprised if, in the long term, we were able to give a solace to Mr Omtzigt's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u17	I'm just terribly surprised that this Secretary of State doesn't even want to see the point. They're asking us to look at this. There's not even a solution being enforced. It is asked to come up with a solution "if possible." The Secretary of State says it costs millions. That's just bullshit. If she continues to respond to my motions in this way, there will be no point in asking questions. I'm serious. A storage function is requested here and to look at it. The Secretary of State can't seriously believe that's gonna cost millions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u18	I don't think I took the word "millions" in my mouth. I have just said that a substantial investment in a new vehicle would be at issue and that I simply do not choose to do so at the moment. That's one of the reasons why I'm deposing the motion. In addition, Mr Omtzigt has asked two further questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u19	Mr Omtzigt, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u20	This means that this State Secretary consciously chooses that a pension administrator has the right to send the digital pension statement to the wrong e-mail address, as that is decided in the law. A pension administrator is by no means obliged to participate in the box of "my government." There is therefore no guarantee at all that the pension statement will arrive at the participant. Asked to store the information somewhere. To that the Secretary of State says: that's bullshit. Then we are talking about a claim on the largest possession in the Netherlands, worth 1,400 billion euros. The Secretary of State cannot believe that the information for citizens is stored in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u21	So that wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u22	No, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to answer the other questions. Mr Omtzit's question arising from this debate is, of course, whether I have understood myself with the ABP. I have already said in the previous debate that the ABP itself is, of course, responsible, as Mr Omtzigt quite rightly said, for the way it communicates, or not communicating or communicating with its participants. As a result of this debate, I have been in contact, including with BZK, with the employers' part of the ABP. In that sense, the answer is yes. If I am asked whether I have actively drawn the supervisor's attention to this point, the answer is no, because the supervisor has an independent function in it. But of course the supervisor is also watching these kinds of debates. I therefore strongly believe that the supervisor is really watching how the ABP acts in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u23	Has the Secretary of State answered all the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u24	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u25	Does the amendment also contain an opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u26	I didn't recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u27	Okay. A brief question, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u28	When examining the amendment, the Secretary of State said that she did not know what she was going to do with ICT. I understand that argument. I welcome the fact that in the motion tabled by Mr Omtzig, the point of data retention and the prevention of losing things is even more precise and more comprehensive than in another amendment, that of Mrs Lodders. I think this is an important point, which is why I co-signed the motion. Why has the Secretary of State not chosen the answer that she is going to involve this particular point and the concerns that Mr Omtzig has raised, and which I share, in the elaboration of the other motion which she has left to the Chamber of Justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u29	A brief response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u30	Even though I had followed the debate between Mrs Lodders Mr Omtzigt, I have just indicated that the motion tabled on the part of the VVD has a number of things in it and is trying to ensure that the three different vehicles will eventually follow each other. I think that's a hell of a good thing. That might well result in you looking very closely at the storage function. That's true. I think this motion carries this in it, and I agree with this motion. The other motion, tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van Weyenberg, asks to explore how pension information can be kept for a long time. That's really a specific part. I don't choose that. I don't recommend that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u31	I see Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Paulenbelt too, excuse me: Paul Ulenbelt; I wanted to merge it, but that did not go with the interrupting microphone. However, this is a reopening. I would like to give you the floor, but it is customary for only the author or the first signatory to ask a question or a follow-up question on the motion in question. I am allowing some room now, but it is not intended to go back to the debate. There's just a difference of opinion. You may well ask enlightening questions about this, but in the end we will have to vote on it later. It is not the case that we have to debate this endlessly; the debate has already taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u32	It affects the legislation dealt with, I think that is important. My point is that I want one confirmation. The Secretary of State always hints that Mr Omtzigt's motion already lays down certain directions for resolution. However, I have seen the motion as addressing a problem. Can the Secretary of State confirm that her story that it costs a lot of money just doesn't add up?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u33	I didn't say it costs a lot of money. I just said the word "millions" didn't come out of my mouth. I did say that it would mean another additional vehicle to be financed by the funds. So it seems clear to me that there is money involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u34	I would just like to know whether a motion I tabled and which will be discussed in this subsequent debate might be able to continue. I would like to know from the Secretary of State what she has heard at BZK, the employers' section in the ABP, which could reassure us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u35	Through this debate and also through the administration, I have informed you how the Chamber has asked me about this. Then it's nice to leave it at that. Let me be very clear on this: reassurance in the sense that Mr Ulenbelt means, namely the compensation of the people involved, is, of course, not on the agenda. This is not on the board of the government, but of the pension fund as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u36	So I am not withdrawing my motion, because this merely highlights the need. I also ask Mr Omtzig to think again, because people are getting a lot of money out of their pockets!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u37	I understand you're not withdrawing the motion. The motion for a resolution is, moreover, in part No. 22, I understand. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-04-tweedekamer-10.u38	The legislative proposal, the motions and the amendment will be voted on tomorrow at the beginning of the afternoon meeting. I would like to thank the Secretary of State, the Members of Parliament, the officials and the people who have followed this debate on the Internet.
