ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u1	A warm word of welcome to the Minister for Economic Affairs. I'm glad you're happy to visit us again in the new year. There are nine speakers for this debate. The first is Mrs Van Tongeren from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Like all participants, she has five minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. Stubbornness has its advantages and disadvantages. This minister is, in his stubbornness, the only one who believes that he is going to get the agreements out of the energy agreement. If the Minister, with all the new information available to date, is so sure of his case, is he prepared to have it passed on to the planning agencies? If the Minister is right, the criticism will stop. If others, such as GroenLinks, are right, we can immediately take additional measures and not wait another year. An energy transition with a corresponding fiscal and infrastructure transition needs a huge broad support base and is a major operation. We can't do that without that broad support. We can see that the Minister is showing determination on his own, but in what direction does he do so? How can you convince a population that windmills are needed if you have a prime minister who calls for windmills to be subsidised? How can you get people excited about clean energy if you want to get shale gas out of the ground at the same time and open coal plants? How can you persuade the population to use energy more efficiently if you as a government refuse to win less gas in Groningen? GroenLinks calls on this minister to consistently choose the sustainable direction and take the measures in this direction. GroenLinks is convinced that, if the government takes it seriously and has a clear direction and objective, the population will certainly follow. I would like to ask the Minister something else today. Is the Minister prepared to congratulate Germany and Denmark on the success of the energy transition in those countries? Recent figures show a decrease in CO emissions. There are days where 100% of electricity needs are covered by clean energy. I would like to hear from the Minister why this is so bad in the Netherlands. Why are we dangling at the bottom? What's his analysis of that? I have an analysis of my own. Recently we have read a leaked version of the draft report of the Research Council, which states that there is a very close entanglement between ministries, regulators and the top of the fossil industry. In our view, this is one of the reasons why it is so terribly difficult, even for the Minister, to get through that. I have a few specific questions. How many Shell employees or employees? The NAM's been seconded to a ministry for the past two to three years? How many officials have walked in on one of our big fossil companies? How does the Minister himself, one and a half years after the conclusion of the Energy Agreement, consider that there is now a need for a round of passionate consultation between the 40 parties in order to implement the intention, which GroenLinks supports? How does the Minister feel that this is still not clear after a year and a half? GroenLinks thinks that one of the things that can help is that the State has a financial interest in clean energy. With gas, you can see that the state's great financial interest has a huge inhibiting effect on reducing gas profits. If there were a great financial interest for the State in clean energy, there would be much more urgency in all ranks. Why should the State not participate in clean energy projects, similar to the way in which EBN already does so in fossil mining? I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Then I'll get to the infrastructure transition. GroenLinks proposes that no building be built with a natural gas connection. Why, if you know you have to get rid of fossil, would you now connect new houses to that? You should do the same with the main gas network. Do we really need that? On land winds, the Minister has always said that it was planned on 1 January 2015. We had 1 January 2015. Is that the case now? The existing permits for wind at sea have been withdrawn, but the Chamber does not receive the corresponding justification. There is also transparency when it comes to obtaining support. So, again, the Chamber would very much like to have DNV GL's report that shows that 3 billion in cost savings are possible with the way TenneT will connect the wind farms at sea. However, the cabinet has improved a little on the postcode rose scheme, for which I am grateful. We hope that this will soon prove itself. Colleagues will probably also be asking about the 4 billion that is not being used to subsidise coal-fired power stations. GroenLinks would very much like to hear from the Minister whether the coal plants will actually close on time and if not, whether the coal tax will be maintained. I can see from the beautiful new screen that I have in front of me, that I have to say my final sentence. According to a recent study in Science, 80% of coal and 50% of oil and gas must remain underground and my question is whether the Minister is prepared to see what this means to us...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u4	... because if we don't do this, it will be financially unsustainable, morally irresponsible and ultimately unsafe for our small, swampy country on the North Sea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u5	That was a phrase with a lot of commas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mr. Chairman. The energy agreement is a fine subject to open the debate year. It covers a wide area, has a number of quantitative objectives and is endorsed by many. It is not easy to achieve such a thing, and it seems to me that we need to be sparing from that point of view alone. However, the problem is that we address an even bigger order than the energy agreement. You can say that there is a system crisis at macro level. The way we produce and consume is completely unsustainable in the long term. Exhaustion of natural resources threatens and we borrow from the planet, while we don't pay back. I'll start with four general observations. The transition that is needed extends beyond the energy agreement and beyond 2023. However, the agreement must be part of that. In our view, there is an S-shaped curve: a process that is not linear. That's my first question. We look at 2020 and 2023 and we work with percentages and petajoules, but of course it has to be a bigger transition. Is that the government's approach, too? The second question is whether we are dealing with a social agreement or a technological agreement. I think that is an important point. What is the biggest capital: the turbines and the solar panels, or the 17 million people who have to participate in the energy agreement? A "warm jersey day" sounds very different from a certain composition of turbine poles. Urgenda talks about five different times: different living, different travelling from a to b, different eating, different producing and otherwise generating energy. This is human-oriented and offers an action perspective. The third point is the link between innovation and roll-out. A response from the government has come to the letter from the planning agencies on this issue. I'd like to talk about it further. Aren't these too many separate worlds? We just heard about a blue-energy revolution. The Telegraaf only wrote about blue energy by warming up fresh water, which helps with the osmosis. So there are all kinds of innovations on the left and right. It is difficult to estimate when an innovation reaches the point where it can be rolled out. I'd like to hear more about this. The fourth point is the international context. What are neighbouring countries and other continents doing? What are the price developments? Who would have dared to predict that the price of oil would fall so sharply? To what extent do you keep course with the energy agreement in such a fluid international context? What can we ourselves do, for example, to improve matters in the area of the emissions trading system? Solar energy seems to be successful. There are ifs and buts about effectiveness, payback time and the postcode rose, but it goes fast. Can it be faster with current knowledge than the agreement? Biomass has just been studied by a number of scientists, Louise Vet, Martijn Katan, Rudy Rabbing: not the least. They say that you need to skip the whole stage of discussions on transport fuels and energy power plants and go straight to the added value that green building materials have in biorefining and green growth. How does the government feel about that? Is that a route that we have to take and is it beyond thinking in the pure form of the energy agreement? Wind at sea we will follow benevolently. Can the government say anything about the discussion that would take place with the CPB on this matter? In Nieuwsuur, in my opinion, a lot of nonsensical statements have been made about this. How does the government feel about that? Has the government talked to the CPB about the 5 billion damage that framed the wind in the sea story? Wind on land is, as far as we are concerned, the pole of offense, or the poles of offense, especially in the northern provinces. I'd like to ask the Minister to take a closer look at this. Didn't he land on the polder track when he actually wanted the Buitenveldert track? Should we not ask someone like former Minister Winsemius to look again in the northern provinces at the way in which you have to shape wind on land there? After all, we do not do it with the people, but we do it in spite of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u7	I'm gonna take a look at the framing of those 5 billion costs. In my view, in the social cost-benefit analysis, windmills are calculated not to reduce CO but to reduce the price of emission allowances. Everything that the Netherlands is doing in addition is doing in the Netherlands and doing extra things in Poland, Romania, Croatia and Germany; countries that desperately need this space. The report states, in other words, that what we do in addition does not yield anything for the Netherlands, but something for Germany. That is also why the first coal deal was not allowed to continue. What does the SP Group mean by saying that it is just a frame of costs? Is it not true that they are truthful in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u8	It's a $5 billion damage to develop wind at sea. It's just what you want or don't want to include in your calculations. If you take the welfare effect of reduced CO emissions with you in the long term, you can't say the word "damage." Well, that's just wrong. Moreover, there are, of course, a lot of assumptions in the wind on the sea story that have to prove in the coming decades that these windmills are there. You're not doing the people any favors by telling them the negative side of the sea as a truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u9	Appointing an uncomfortable truth doesn't make this uncomfortable to me. That's exactly what the CPB did. In the social cost-benefit analysis, the CPB has made this whole cost-benefit analysis. We have also asked questions about this in the technical briefing. The CPB says it doesn't add anything to the CO reduction, but it adds something to reducing the price of emissions. With subsidies we pay the low price for the CO. That's the seven tons. That means it's a cost to the Netherlands that's not up to anything. It's not an environmental gain either, because it's in the calculation. It is not a climate benefit either, because it does not result in an additional CO reduction for Europe. The report says quite clearly that it is just 5 billion costs that the Netherlands will not and will never earn back. Twenty years from now, a new generation of windmills will come and we will have to do another analysis, but the windmills we are about to build will cost 5 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u10	That story sure makes sense. However, it is a choice you make to underpin the intention to develop wind at sea. You can also say that wind on land and wind at sea together will arrange 30% of the electricity supply for us. That's a good number. This requires an investment, and you're going to have an amount that you want to spend as much as you need, but probably that isn't the case. Then you frame it very differently. Mr Leegte and I may not disagree, but it is another way of telling the same message.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u11	What I am wondering about the SP is why I never hear Mr Smaling talking about the enormous cost of the energy agreement and about the hundreds of euros that households are going to have to pay extra. In a number of years they will pay €200 SDE tax. That's what the SP has to worry about, right? I don't understand why the SP never brings that up. I understand from the Labour Party, which has long abandoned socialism, but I expect the Socialist Party to have problems with that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u12	Mrs Klever has clearly seen that the SP cares about people, especially people with a small wallet, but not just those people. However, Mrs Klever should not forget that we also pay hundreds of euros of fossil energy subsidies without us having much in mind. The same goes for the people with a small wallet. Helping people get around with a small wallet is, in our opinion, more general income policy and we arrange it through the Tax Plan. I do not want to focus on the costs associated with the transition to renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u13	GroenLinks always claims that we pay subsidies to fossil energy, but I think Shell pays a total of 5 billion taxes to the State every year, so we deserve to do so, but that's just the side of it. The PVV always finds the SP at its side when it comes to reducing its own risk in the care. If your own risk goes up a few tens, it's always too much for the PVV and for the SP, but now there's a few hundred euros added to the energy bill and then I don't hear anything from the SP at all. I really don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u14	The PVV has a bit of a hand in expressing the word "grant" in such a way that it looks like a terminal disease. It is about moving from a society based on fossil energy to a society based on renewable energy. This is just as important for low-income people as for high-income people. Once you see low-income people getting into trouble, there are all kinds of ways to do something about it. As far as we are concerned, it is appropriate to discuss this in various areas, for example in the Tax Plan, so that people with low incomes can live a sufficiently comfortable life.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u15	You're continuing. You have 50 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u16	Minister Blok has sent a letter of commitment. I would like to know if we can still make a big impact on the insulation of buildings. The energy agreement is more about electricity than about heat. With the heat file, there are still huge blows to be made. I like to hear how creative Minister Blok is in that. Now that we can expect the gas crane in Groningen to close a bit, I say to Minister Kamp, an extra blow could be made here. There are two categories of companies in terms of energy efficiency of industry. I can't really figure out how we can monitor that at company level. They are groups of companies and they are organised through top sectors. The Environmental Management Act requires that the best available technologies should be used. This must also be in line with the savings targets of industry. How's that? What can we expect?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u17	Mr. Chairman. Politics is all about where do we want to go or what should happen? Few people here think that we don't need to keep the earth alive for people now, in other places in the world and for future generations. Everyone seems to agree on this, but then that is not the starting point for policy. The starting point is constantly: where do we stand in the Netherlands, what do we have now and how can we work towards that higher goal? When we held the main debate on the energy agreement, I quoted a wise statement by Mrs Heleen de Coninck of the Wiardi Beckman Foundation. She said that the energy agreement demonstrates the hopelessness of the sustainability debate in the Netherlands. The agreement should have been proof that poldering works, even in difficult decisions, because if everyone agrees, there is support. The result above all shows that poldering in difficult problems only works if there is consensus on the need for change and that consensus is simply not there. I regret to note that Mrs De Coninck was right. The energy agreement was far too little ambitious to bring that higher goal to life for future generations. Then we can see that using figures and definitions is trying to get out of those ambitions. What exactly is the definition of renewable energy? In an earlier debate with the Minister for Economic Affairs, which I unfortunately could not attend due to circumstances, he said that the percentage of renewable energy is different from the growth of the economy. Is he serious? Does the Minister really set the percentage of renewable energy against the growth of our economy? So what is the profit of our sustainability blow? I would like an explanation from the Minister on this point. Surely we agree that we should not deal with energy in this way, that the earth should be burdened more heavily than it can handle, and that we should aim for renewable energy and as much energy savings as possible. This is one of the most important ambitions that this cabinet should have. I say this to the Minister for Housing and National Service. It does not help to isolate the existing housing stock. Especially in the light of the painful findings in Groningen and the need, according to the Party for the Animals, to really shut down the gas tap, we should not be left with homes that we could have isolated but that we did not in the end isolate. So we need more gas for that than is justified. Why does this minister not come up with a plan to turn off the lights in homes and offices when no one is there? Why do we walk through shopping streets in which shops blow up the natural gas from Groningen, because they want to keep the store warm but apparently do not want to close the doors? Why do we not see ambition on this kind of simple measures that can ensure that we no longer use so much energy? Then we do not need to subsidise controversial forms of energy production. I am thinking of the large sums invested in renewable energy, the SDE subsidies. These are still going to forms of unsustainable energy generation. The co-incineration of biomass in coal plants takes up a lot of land and leads to large-scale deforestation but does not lead to climate gains. This also says the authoritative Academy of Sciences, the Royal Netherlands Academy of Sciences. The incorporation of biofuel into the tank has the same impact on the climate, namely zero, and the same disastrous impact on global food security and biodiversity. We have to stop doing that and at least we should not subsidise it. The same applies to the fermentation of manure to biogas. Our huge manure surplus causes the manure digesters to pupate like mushrooms from the ground all over our country. Cabinet policy supports this. These industrial processors create a major nuisance for the inhabitants of rural areas. They face sometimes hundreds of trucks a day feeding fresh shit. Why doesn't the Minister of Economic Affairs say: we put a brake on manure production so that we don't have to stop the hard-earned tax money of hard-working Dutch people from getting it mixed up, knowing that it doesn't make a sustainable contribution to our energy mix? The Party for Animals was not enthusiastic about the agreement. Over the past year and a half, it has also shown that the removal of problems to existing institutions is not the solution. The solution lies in real ambitions of a cabinet that shows leadership. I think it's time for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u18	It is also time for Mrs Mulder from the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u19	Mr. Chairman. The SER Energy Agreement was concluded in September 2013. For the CDA, the energy agreement is an important step in the transition towards a sustainable energy supply. We consider them important for future generations, for example for my nephews and nieces. In the main debate on the agreement, the CDA Group indicated that it would focus on three issues: support, innovation and employment. The 2014 National Energy Exploratory shows that it is very difficult to achieve the 14% renewable energy target by 2020. We wonder what the effect of falling oil prices on investment in renewable energy is. One of the other groups referred to this as well. Can the Minister give his views on this? How does he look at that? Reality seems to be catching up with us. Residents and businesses should be at the heart of achieving objectives. Many inhabitants in areas where wind energy comes, indicate that they would like to participate in the energy transition. They want a fair distribution of desires and burdens and they want to be heard. If there are alternative ways of achieving the planned megawatts, will the Minister give room for that locally?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u20	Mrs Mulder just reported that she thinks we are being overtaken by reality. Now it is a central task of a politician to relate to reality. My question is therefore how the CDA group relates to this falling oil prices, if that is such an important point for this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u21	We believe it is important to put residents and businesses at the heart of achieving the objectives. The Minister must have a large number of officials on it to see how that effect is exactly. We have a small group with less support. So I am very curious to hear the Minister's response on this point. I hope that the PvdA Group, like the CDA Group, considers it extremely important for residents and businesses to be included in the transition to sustainable energy supply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u22	You are again talking about acceptance, but my question was about falling oil prices. I don't quite understand the relationship you're making right now. Are you saying that because oil prices are falling, renewable energy is becoming more expensive and so the CDA wants to increase its budget? Is that what you're implying?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u23	First of all, we want to know whether the Minister is seeing whether that could be the case or whether he is looking at it quite differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u24	This is an interesting point. When we discussed the energy agreement last year, the VVD raised the question of how the whole world could say that fossil energy prices remain stable but are likely to fall, while the price of renewable energy continues to rise. That is exactly the opposite of what the energy agreement indicates. Then I stood there and everyone asked me from behind the interrupting microphone if I did not turn away from reality. Now the CDA finally has the insight, which is very good, but my question is then what the consequence is. Does the CDA consider that there should be an additional budget to compensate for these price differences, or does it consider that the target should be adjusted downwards? Left or right, we're gonna have to do something with these facts coming at us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u25	Whether the facts are actually those facts, I would very much like to hear from the Minister first and also how much it would be. I am not in favour of writing blank cheques and it does not seem to me that the VVD wants to do so. So I'd like to have the effects more insightful. I think the VVD would like that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u26	The CDA calls the question. The energy agreement was concluded on the basis of about €100 per barrel, while it is now €50 per barrel, half the price. So that has a lot of consequences. I assume you've thought about where you're going with this question. Where does the CDA want to land? Is what you are saying a way to increase the budget or a way to tell the Minister that it needs to be more efficient, with certain objectives not being met because of costs for the citizens?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u27	If it can be more efficient, he will, I suppose, indeed. No one is waiting for an inefficient minister. So the VVD now evokes a contradiction that I don't see. It should always be efficient, as I say to fellow spokesperson René Veegte. We believe that this is already a lot of money. We notice that our residents are currently not sufficiently involved in this whole transition. We are therefore also wondering whether there is room for more money to be put into renewable energy, but I do think that this question should be on the table here in this sitting. That is why I put it to the Minister: what does it mean and which way do we go? That way, we can rethink it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u28	You were just talking, I presume, about Mr. Hollow, weren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u29	I believe that the CDA believes that climate change is very little affected by falling or rising oil prices. My first question is therefore whether the CDA still believes that the target originally set by the Netherlands, namely 16% clean energy by 2020, should actually be met.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u30	The CDA has always said that it is also stated in our election programme "We must achieve 14% by 2020. We also said at that time that if 16% could be achieved within the time available, this would be a fine efficiency blow that could possibly be made. We have to establish on the basis of the report with the explorations that we have received that it may be 12%. Of course, that's a very bitter pill for all of us. At the same time, we can see why things are going so slowly: to a large extent, gaining support has not flown in the right way. As a result, we are unlikely to achieve many of these objectives. I hope, as I say to the spokeswoman of GroenLinks, that there will be room for proposals to increase support in the region and to try to achieve the objective in a decentralised way. I am thinking, for example, of further developing the possibilities for obtaining wind energy along the Afsluitdijk. Mr Holtackers of the CDA and Mrs Van Tongeren of GroenLinks have already tabled a motion on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u31	If we are to reach that 14%, then we must not delay further. The CDA tells me all the time that it's clinging to two thoughts. On the one hand, I hear: yes, climate change is important; we have to meet our objectives. On the other hand, all I hear is a delay. The CDA wants to postpone for six months. It now wants a new study on the possibilities of wind energy along the Afsluitdijk. It wants to regain its support. Winsemius has already been to Friesland, but that advice has been put aside. The CDA wants another round. What does the CDA really want? Does it want to do everything in its power to achieve that 14% and does it want to support the Minister, or can it do so from the CDA, a little bit before the elections of the Provincial States, rather slower and does the CDA want to do six more rounds in all provinces first? Which one is it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u32	The CDA thinks it is extremely important that since 2012, since I have been in the House of Representatives, I have put forward in all debates that there is support for what we are doing. We note that it is gradually being pushed through from above. The CDA has a hard time with that. You know us as a highly decentralised party. That is why we believe it is important to involve residents and businesses. We are very concerned about the whole energy transition, because we see that if you push it through with each other, the whole support for the energy transition is disappearing, especially in the longer term. Mr Smaling has also spoken about this on several occasions. I very much agree with that. Then we really put the horse behind the cart and then we lose it, in the long term, for our nephews and nieces. Now a lot of neighbors of planned wind farms don't feel taken seriously. That leads to resistance. Resistance will also lead to legal proceedings in a number of cases. As a result, the targets for the planned deadlines are unlikely to be met. We therefore wonder what the Minister's answer to the letter from the municipalities of Stadskanaal, Borger-Odoorn and Aa and Hunze dated 12 December 2014 is with the request to revise the current wind plans. The municipalities in particular ask Minister Kamp to involve the inhabitants of the area, because the support research carried out there shows that the involvement of the inhabitants in the area has been completely inadequate. I know that a response to the letter from the municipalities has been given. How's the Minister gonna do this? I'd like to get a response from him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u33	On the one hand, I am listening with increasing enthusiasm to the contribution of the CDA to the call for nuclear power plants and to the nasty side of windmills. On the other hand, I think: when all this had to be done by the CDA, all these arguments also came to light, such as the burden surrounding it, the slogan "not in my backyard" and the high costs. Why didn't the CDA say at the time that the windmills were annoying? Then why did it have to be pushed through? Now that the CDA is safely in opposition, it's all gonna ask critical questions and postpone things that undermines the cabinet's objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u34	From the moment I've been working on this file, we've been talking about support. You can look at the reports from all the debates. I just told your colleague. We have constantly stressed this. We would like the long-term objectives to be achieved, so that we do not turn our backs on them in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u35	In politics, it is also about reliability and trust. That shouldn't depend on individuals. The CDA line has always been cliff-and-ready: we want as many windmills as possible as soon as possible. Now the CDA is backing down. I'm fine with that. The CDA wants nuclear power stations now. I'm fine with that, too. But why didn't the CDA say that at the time? Now that they're all fulfilled facts, now that we're about to make decisions and everyone sees what's happening, the CDA suddenly says: boys, what is it terrible and can't we take a step back to look at the support base? Isn't that a little late and a little hypocritical?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u36	Mr VVD's Hollow may, of course, look at it the way he likes it. We are talking about achieving the objectives together with our inhabitants and our businesses. If Mr Leegte, with the VVD and the coalition, chooses to achieve this despite the people, that is a choice of this coalition. It's not the CDA's choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u37	I hear great stories from the CDA about the citizens and about support. Is the CDA willing to translate the fine words into action? Can we expect a motion from the CDA to stop the wind plans? Will the CDA, together with the PVV, sign a motion to stop the windmill plans? How far is the CDA willing to go?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u38	I understand that the PVV is in favour of completely stopping wind energy, because the PVV is not for renewable energy. The CDA is for renewable energy, but with support. That is why we think it is important to do it together with the inhabitants. We had hoped for a broad code of conduct from the wind energy producers. It did not bring what we had hoped for. Then you're faced with the question of how to proceed. In addition, we need local residents, as well as a minister who looks closely at how he is going to shape it in the National Coordination Scheme. That is what we are asking the Minister to do: to see how he can do it. This may mean that some windmills may lose weight. That's not what the PVV wants, which is 100% waste.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u39	It's true the PVV doesn't want any windmill. So, if I can sum it up, the CDA wants windmills, but not when they come in the backyard of the CDA voters and not just before the Provincial State elections. So, after the state elections, we'll talk again. Can I sum it up like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u40	I understand very well what Mrs Klever is trying to do, but with that she does the CDA and also the inhabitants of the Netherlands really lack. She sketches an image that just doesn't reflect reality properly. We have been calling for support for many years. That's not new. Of course there have been many elections along the way, but they have never been the CDA's goal. We just want a consistent line. This line was deployed years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u41	You continue, Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u42	Mr. Chairman. In the province of Friesland, Provincial States have made a democratic decision. There is now a widely supported proposal for a large wind project on and along the Afsluitdijk. There is therefore support for this and we attach great importance to it. We would like to hear whether the Minister is prepared to look at this in a positive way. A double line setup on and along the Afsluitdijk makes the realization of the Frisian wind forecast possible. This arrangement also fits in with the planMER of the wind energy on land structural vision. I have also heard that there would be no difference between the line-up and the staining in the IJsselmeer as far as permits are concerned. Is the Minister willing to make possible the decision of the Frisian Provincial States to realize his wind energy estimate on and behind the Afsluitdijk? I see Mrs. Dik standing by the interrupting microphone, Mr. President, but I'm just gonna keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u43	No, we've stalled your time, Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u44	Well, it was at least seven seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u45	My question to the CDA Group is exactly where the CDA Group stands. Is it facing the challenge of renewable energy, where wind energy must also be given a place? Or does she still attach such importance to the concerns of local residents? I understand that there are some objections that they are abandoning the plans that have been made and the agreements that have been made? I think that is a very important question, because in the debate I hear a lot of ifs and buts from Mrs Mulder. In my second interruption, I will give an example of this, but now I am explicitly asking this question. Where's the CDA group? Are we gonna hold on to the task or are we gonna let go of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u46	I'm sure you can, if you can. So it's that clear. It is clear that the Christian Union is making a different choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u47	This gives a lot of clarity. I regret to note that the CDA Group is undermining the agreements made, even going so far as to refer to an amendment by the CDA Group in Friesland, which states that the tasks can be achieved on the Afsluitdijk. This amendment has not been supported by any other group in the States, because it is unrealistic. We will also have to realise wind energy on land, even in the IJsselmeer. We do that with pain in the heart, but it's no different. That is what we do in order to achieve with each other the task of wind energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u48	Do you have a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u49	Unfortunately, I have to say that the CDA Group is abandoning this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u50	The President is right to say that no question is being asked, but that a first-term contribution is being made by the Christian Union. We think it is important that it is done with support. That's not a new story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u51	If there's no support, it's not going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u52	Then you have to look at each other and see how you can get support. Of course, you have to look for solutions, because you want to achieve those goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u53	Does that mean that you have the goal that needs to be achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u54	The goal is to get together with the people. Ultimately, there is a long-term goal behind it. As I pointed out earlier, Mr Smaling of the SP also gives it very clearly to Mr Smaling, you have to do the energy transition together with the people. If you're going to do that over the heads of people, you're not gonna achieve the goals in the end. That's important, because everyone's gonna pay more for it. Then you also want it to be worn, at least the CDA wants it to be worn very badly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u55	Mrs Van Veldhoven, be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u56	I'm just trying to get a little clearer. So the CDA doesn't say, "They're not getting there." So the CDA says we're gonna go with you and see where they go, but they're gonna get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u57	Yes. Yesterday we were in Meeden. There we have talked extensively with a large number of people about how to do that in a good way. At first, it wasn't in the plans at all. That sixth variant was cycled in at once. Well, then you'd better take a good look at how you deal with this with these people. Then you can't just say, "Bam-bam, here they are." Then you're gonna see how you can handle it properly, right? It seems to me elementary in our democracy that we should want to do it that way. Mr. Chairman. On 11 October 2013 I was at the opening of Blue Energy, the power station of REDstack on the Afsluitdijk. It provides energy from mixing fresh and salty water. I found and still find it impressive. Tidal energy is also such a promising renewable energy source. Such innovations are urgently needed for the long term. There's gonna be a lot more to come up with. The SDE+ scheme (Stimulation of Sustainable Energy Production) is an effective tool for the deployment of renewable energy, but is less suitable for stimulating energy innovations in the long term. That's what planning agencies determine. From the SDE+, an amount of about €50 million goes to the energy top sector. For demo techniques which are difficult to take the step of research into implementation and implementation, a different distribution of funds might provide a way out in the future. To what extent has the Minister considered a tailor-made arrangement for new techniques for the SDE+, precisely in order to achieve this kind of fine example? I come to employment. In its letter of 8 December, the Energy Agreement Committee indicated that there were doubts as to the feasibility of the employment objective of the Energy Agreement. The CDA finds that worrying, because there are still too many people without work at home. The CDA expects the cabinet to make the job of employment. There is a great deal of employment in the energy efficiency of homes. The answers to the oral questions we put to the Minister for Housing in December have not yet clarified the way in which the cabinet is going to achieve this. Today, however, we would like to have clarity on this issue and not just on the review in 2016 as Minister Blok indicated in December. I'm rounding up. How does the Minister see the role of energy suppliers in energy saving loans? How's that going? I would also like an answer to that. I would like to get a response to these points.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u58	Mr. Chairman. An energy change is necessary for more innovation and jobs, for less dependence on Putin and to reduce the risk of natural disasters, but over and over again the ambitions are falling. Of the 16% renewable energy from the coalition agreement, only 14% remained in the energy agreement. Now the Minister is fine with 13%. The energy agreement was already a weak compromise, with too much focus on the short term, too little innovation and an ant-sweet deal for the coal plants. Anyway, something's better than nothing. In any case, we must ensure that we implement the agreements we have made. However, the promises must be fulfilled, but the conclusions of the PBL and ECN are unfortunately as I expected.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u59	Can Mrs Van Veldhoven give us any further justification for 'annoying deal for coal power stations'? I am getting that feeling a little bit, and I am curious how her group sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u60	Yeah, I'd be happy to. I'm imagining it a little bit as if you're standing outside the door of a car shop with an old barrel and almost want to drive in, because the car is really at the end of its term. Of course you can still ride around in the village a bit, but he actually doesn't get anything. So you're at the door of the car shop, when someone comes to you and says, "Sir, sir, would you like to use a demolition scheme? If you demolish this car, I'm going to subsidise for you a few more miles for your new car. I will give you some subsidy on the fuel for the new car, and you will also get a discount on the road tax, because in the end it will make more money for us." That sum is to give an exemption from the coal tax, its transfer to households, coupled with the increase in the price of energy in the Netherlands by removing a piece of excess capacity from the market, and the subsidy of the biomass supplement makes it a really sweet coal deal for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u61	The follow-up question is, of course, what Mrs Van Veldhoven would like to do about it; I would therefore like to hear those proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u62	Mr Vos has already heard a proposal from D66 on several occasions. We would find it very logical to relate the exemption to the actual costs incurred for the closure of coal plants. Now that Mr Vos has given me the opportunity to do so, I would like to repeat the question to the Minister that we should finally come up with a calculation of what the closure of coal power stations really costs the companies. We must, of course, be a reliable government, so if we as a government decide that we want to see these companies closed, then we must also pay the real costs. I would like to see these real costs; I have never seen a real calculation of them. For we are about to abolish ad infinitum, until the end of time, the coal tax for the companies and let households pay. So I'd like to receive that cost calculation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u63	I would like to recall that it was D66 Minister Brinkhorst who wanted to build new coal power stations, which are now also there. But the new coal plants are less efficient than some 1930s power station in Rotterdam, which is fully integrated into the industrial cluster. The rate of return is at 60%, which is fundamentally high. So that is good for CO emissions. In addition to these facts, I have a question. If D66 knows so well, why did D66 so much want civil society to shape the policy in the energy agreement? Why didn't we just do it ourselves in the Chamber, where the political primacy should be?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u64	Those are also two very interesting points. I do not think Mr Leegte has always listened very carefully to me. I hope he does today. I have always complained about the fact that politics was not involved in negotiating the energy agreement. The taxpayer simply was not sitting at the table, and we, as representatives, certainly were not. The VVD spoke through the government, but the Chamber is not involved. We got it on the table here and never even had to sign it. That was the first point. With the integration, Mr Leegte points out an important second point. Of course, we have to do much more about that. For example, we must ensure that we use the heat generated by coal plants much more efficiently. Let's bet on that; it's actually very, very sinful. If we make good use of it, the new coal power stations will, of course, be more efficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u65	The common thread in this debate is the progressive understanding. D66 was a strong supporter of the CDA and Labour Party's motion calling for energy policy to be spent on the social field. The VVD was against that at the time. We said that the primacy must be here, we must give the minister the order and then the Chamber can control it. D66 was against that. That party said: you have to leave it to the social field, so we get continuity, because we are far too fickle. Those were the words of D66. The VVD didn't really believe in that. How could it have turned around in a year? D66 all wants to make adjustments to the energy agreement within a year, which has barely gotten on steam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u66	Indeed, I have always been a great supporter of an energy agreement, because we really need a little bit of stability. But the only way you really realise that stability is not just to lay it down in civil society. D66 is constantly critical of the breadth of the negotiations that the cabinet has entered into with civil society with the idea of "we see what comes out," whether it is a pension agreement, a healthcare agreement or an energy agreement. We are critical of that. There has to be real support in the Chamber if you want to avoid the need for adjustments. That's point one. The second point is that the energy agreement did not contain sufficient measures to comply with its own agreements. This was already clear at the start of the energy agreement. So we cannot wait until we find out in 2016 that the measures are still insufficient to our surprise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u67	Return to your lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Something's better than nothing. So we have to make things happen. Unfortunately, the conclusions are as I expected. Energy saving is far from being achieved. Public spending on energy innovation in the Netherlands is falling. Renewable energy will never reach 14%. And yet the Minister continues to cheerfully proclaim that everything is fine, fine, fine and that we should not change anything until 2016. Mr Leegte would like to underline this from the Chamber. I call on both ministers not to implement the agreement with a blindfold. Let us become realistic and see how we can catch up and fill the gaps. Because we need to take additional measures, with more attention to heat. Therefore, this spring I would like a letter from the Ministers of Economic Affairs and for Housing and National Service on how the 35 petajoule energy savings in the built environment will be achieved in 2016, including pilots to try out new things. I would like to recall the motion tabled by Mr Pechtold and Mr Samsom in order to give the network companies a role in this. I come to innovation and wind at sea. The SDE leans heavily on the bereft of wood and on windmills on land. We may be able to achieve just the percentage of renewable energy, but then everything will have to go well. We are not going to take the big steps. We really need new options if we do not want to stumble from one percent to the next, but really want to go up by tens of percent per decade. We therefore need to focus more firmly on innovation. That's where new opportunities are gonna come from. There has been reference to blue energy for a while. I think we were all happy with that article in De Telegraaf. I also mention sun with much more efficiency and, of course, also energy storage. According to the Minister, the roll-out of TenneT saves no less than 3 billion. Fantastic. He also added 1.2 billion from that 12 mile zone. Part of this goes to the 40% reduction in costs agreed with the sector. Where's everybody else going? Is the Minister prepared to make some of the savings he makes at the SDE extra free for innovation? Does this mean that he wants to invest in innovations around renewable energy? In the end, that's where our real transition path has to come from. It doesn't come out of that scoop work until 2020. I'll mention another option. Is there perhaps money to be made available by reducing the subsidy on biomass? Windmills on land are needed, but we should not talk about people's heads. Serious alternatives should also be considered in the National Coordination Scheme. That is why there are two concrete proposals. Where it is difficult, the Minister must appoint a national coordinator or environmental manager, who not only looks at where the windmills are most profitable and therefore the cheapest for the SDE grant, but also looks at which alternatives are most acceptable. They need to be there, but take citizens' initiatives seriously and help to develop them so that we do not have to compare apples with pears, but two concrete plans can be compared equally. In that case, we may even be a little short of the 1,000 MW we are going to need. We must prevent biomass from becoming a second biofuel.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u69	Mrs Van Veldhoven just asked Mrs Mulder some questions about the basis of support. How far does she go in there? Suppose you could get there in Groningen, Friesland and Drenthe with a mediator, although that would take time and at the expense of the 2020 targets, wouldn't she be in favour of that? This will take a little longer, but will receive the blessing of these three provinces.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u70	We are dealing partly with an existing situation, partly with a new situation. In the new situation, I would like to start from the outset with an area coordinator or environmental manager, who is watching with all parties to determine where this could be best done. Then don't rush through everything with the state coordination scheme and make sure you actively help and support citizen groups in coming up with and developing alternatives in time. We cannot stay in the delay forever. We can't keep postponing it. It has to be done anyway. Then there are the existing situations. Two provinces have already been postponed for six months. At some point, it'll be done. We have set out a certain time frame for this, at that time we have looked at what could be done and then a decision must be taken at some point. In Drenthe, for example, that question is still before us. There's another alternative. People would very much like that to be taken seriously. Since two other provinces have also been granted an extra few months, I can imagine, but with the clear agreement that we are taking a certain amount of time off and then cutting the knot. After all, we must continue to achieve our wind objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u71	I do hear two signals: on the one hand, the rush, on the other hand, the need for support. Do I understand correctly that Mrs Van Veldhoven is actually saying the same thing as Mrs Mulder is saying about the very great need to get support first and then put those posts down?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u72	I don't know how far Mrs Mulder goes in that. I'm not gonna make acceptance a condition. You have to strive for acceptance, but given the national task that we have to accomplish together, it does not seem realistic to me to demand support in a specific region or in a specific place from everyone who lives there, even before the posts can get there. Then you give people a veto on a national interest. I don't think that's realistic. However, I think it is important to support people in their initiatives. You need to take people seriously, and you need to talk to them, instead of just talking about them. Then it is also clear what the alternatives are and what consideration has been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u73	You have 50 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u74	Thank you. I now move on to biomass. We must prevent a second biofuel being added: well-intentioned, but not with the desired effect. I am also concerned about the agreement on biomass replacement. If you choose to do so, as was done in the agreements in the energy agreement, it must be done very carefully. It really cannot be that we are going to subsidise taxpayers' money for the production of illegal timber. Biomass must therefore be sustainable, not only for large projects but also for smaller ones. In the Minister's letter, they are being muffled away, but they are still about half of the biomass that we are going to be deprived of in coal-fired power stations. This means that the area limit must be reduced more quickly. D66 also wants to ensure that the biomass subsidy is not used by inefficient coal plants. The subsidy can therefore only start when these coal plants are out of operation. This time can be used to reach agreement on this. This also applies to the exemption of coal-fired power stations. This should not apply to inefficient coal-fired power stations. I will insist on that by means of a motion if necessary. Finally, I would like to call on Minister Blok and Minister Kamp to take the blindfold off and work hard on achieving the objectives. Don't wait until 2016, but start now!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u75	D66, like the Party for Animals, is very concerned about the cook-up of biomass. I hear Mrs Van Veldhoven say: "If you choose to do so, as in the agreements that are now in place," does this mean that D66 still agrees, while the Academy's report now confirms that this does not even produce climate benefits, but has major disadvantages? Shouldn't we write this off as an option for energy transition?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u76	As far as biomass is concerned, we are still in the middle of a discussion. We only received the KNAW's letter very recently. In any case, I think it is worth discussing again very carefully the extent to which you should do so. You should at least limit the subsidy, which is why I tabled a motion for a resolution on this during an earlier debate. The Minister's letter offered the possibility to apply for a further twelve-year grant in 2022. We shouldn't go that far with each other. We must conduct this debate carefully and prevent it from becoming a second biofuel.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u77	The Minister is actually saying that there must be sustainability criteria, but that he does not yet know exactly how. However, in debates we have had with the Minister before, we have heard him say that he wants to maintain this anyway, otherwise he will not have his 14% renewable energy. Yeah, if we're gonna change the definitions down, of course, we're definitely not gonna get there. How does D66 see that? Everyone thinks there should be criteria for sustainability, but is it really sustainable? What's the line D66's gonna put on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u78	I thought it was important to note that the environmental movement does support the sustainability criteria and that many of the issues we are concerned about have been taken into account in defining these sustainability criteria. I am referring to matters such as carbon debt, indirect land-use change and other technical terms with which I do not wish to further tire the people in the public gallery. However, the point that Mrs Ouwehand is actually pointing out is that we must avoid, as it were, cleaning up our results a little bit. We have to be careful of that. We should not polish these results with something that is ultimately unsustainable in the longer term. That is why I think it is very important that we conduct the debate on the size of biomass together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u79	Mr. Chairman. The Energy Agreement is a practical way of achieving the European target of 14% renewable energy by 2020. Businesses get security in this way, allowing them to invest. In addition, industry has promised that it can be 40% cheaper. That's all profit. Today we are talking about the progress of the energy agreement. When the first Prime Minister of the People's Republic of China, Zhou Enlai, was asked about 200 years after the French Revolution, he said: it is far too early to say anything about it. Today, however, we are discussing the progress of the energy agreement on the basis of facts and figures for the six months we are still working on the implementation of that agreement. It is not for nothing that the ESC writes that it is too early to say anything about additional measures to the energy agreement that some people are calling for. I agree with the ESC. The Chamber has a large majority of responsibility for shaping energy policy for civil society organisations. That wasn't the VVD's choice. However, if a majority of the Chamber gives up that responsibility, the Chamber must also have the courage to give confidence that it will work. I think it's part of each other. Of course, I do have some questions about the energy agreement. For several reasons, it is wise to steer towards CO reduction. However, I find it difficult to assess the effectiveness of the energy agreement measures. That is why I would like to ask the Minister whether he can indicate the cost per tonne of CO emissions avoided in the energy agreement measures. This can be done, for example, in the progress report and in the new measures proposed by the Minister. The Committee also says that the National Energy Exploration does not pass on process agreements in the energy agreement on mobility, transport, greenhouse horticulture, heat and other renewable energy. In short, not all measures have been fully implemented and we do not have a good view of the costs per tonne of CO emissions avoided. I want to know how much it costs to avoid such a ton of CO emissions by stimulating electric driving, for example. Or how much does it cost to avoid that ton with solar panels? If you can see that per measure, the Chamber can easily check whether it is all effective and whether affordability is still paramount. An entrepreneur must now indicate how economical his car or his vacuum cleaner is, a consumer must indicate how economical his home is. It is therefore only logical that the government should also indicate the impact of its own measures on the reduction of CO emissions. I would like to hear a commitment from the Minister on this point. I'm considering tabling a motion on this. I would also like to ask the government to include in the budgets from now on the measures taken by specialist ministries such as EZ, Living, Finance, I and M and other ministries in relation to the energy agreement and its cost. This is preferably done under the heading "Measures resulting from the energy agreement'. At the moment, it is not possible to check the progress and which ministry is doing what. On this point, too, I am considering tabling a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u80	The VVD Group has voted in favour of the budget. Maybe I hear it wrong, but does Mr Veegte now regret agreeing to the budget or agreeing to the energy agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u81	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u82	So the VVD Group fully supports the implementation of the energy agreement as it stands now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u83	Yes, and the VVD is the only one who thinks that we should continue to give the social field the space to fill in. You asked for that, except for the VVD. We were against it, but now we have asked the sector for the following. Guys, pick that up. Do that for us, because we politicians can't do that. We're afraid of our constituents. If we want windmills in Groningen, like the CDA, and the residents are against it, then as a CDA politician you said: I am in favour of windmills. Other parties in the Chamber were afraid to take that responsibility. If we ask them to take that responsibility, we must now give them the confidence to do it. So yes, the energy agreement is what it is. We're not gonna do anything about that. We're not gonna do anything about it. We're not gonna do anything about it. Only I ask the Minister to make it clear what it all means. Now we get some sort of picture through the progress report, but I want to know what's going on at the Department of Housing. What happens at I and M? What happens to electric driving? That is a result of the energy agreement. I want the measures taken by all ministries to be transparent so that we can monitor the progress of the energy agreement with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u84	Very good. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u85	Mr President, could I ask a third question by way of exception?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u86	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u87	I'll get back to you later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u88	Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u89	When you're addressed, you always tend to react for a while. Here's to it. If residents come to a slightly different balance, if they can achieve it with each other as a province in a different way, is that a passable way for the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u90	First of all, I am in favour of a representative democracy. This means that we have been elected to the Chamber for four years and we have the mandate to take decisions. Those decisions aren't always nice. I think we should take it. All these decisions have been agreed in the coalition agreement. If, in the coalition agreement, we decide that we have 14% renewable energy in 2016 or 2014, then we must make that happen. This means that some people will be happy, namely those who are in favour of renewable energy, but also that some people will be unhappy because there will be a windmill in their backyard. That is the consequence of policy. That's the pain of taking responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u91	Now the VVD group sets up an extremely short-lived debut. That's okay, of course. That's democracy. That is the higher parliamentary responsibility we have here. Only, my question hasn't been answered. Suppose you could come to a better conclusion with the residents, is the VVD Group open to that? Or does the VVD say: no, we don't care about those residents at all; leave them alone; they're just standing in their backyard?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u92	No, in fact, the VVD has filed a motion together with the PvdA to create space for provinces to look for better and alternative solutions. So the answer to that question is yes. There's a lot of resistance to windmills. I understand that well, because by now there are more and more alternatives that have the big advantage that they are not dependent on the weather but can produce energy 24 hours a day. An example of such a development is the fresh salt water plant. My question to the Ministers is to what extent they can make use of such alternatives in fulfilling the renewable energy obligation. In other words, is the Minister concerned with the number of windmills or the amount of renewable energy? Is it a question of resources or is it a question of objectives? In Friesland, for example, there is an alternative plan for windmills along the Afsluitdijk. There are fewer people affected by these mills. To what extent does the Minister intend to look at this option? Can he inform the Chamber of his decision on those mills along the Afsluitdijk and when? There is no new information on energy saving in this Energy Exploratory. The talks with companies are in full swing. Moreover, energy saving is not a mandatory objective. For the renovation of housing, the cabinet is committed to accelerating the roll-out of measures which are now technically possible and financially viable. Can the Minister also undertake to do so for new construction in general and new construction of commercial real estate in particular? Well, that's a question for the Home Secretary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u93	May I conclude that the VVD Group wants to seriously investigate the option to place the mills on and along the Afsluitdijk? Is the VVD Group in the Lower House for that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u94	Yes, that's correct. I have some loose questions. In the first debate on the energy agreement, I asked the Minister why the energy agreement estimated that the fossil energy price would rise and decrease for renewables. At that time, I found that facts-free wishful thinking and now we see the price of oil falling sharply, while the system costs for renewable energy are constantly rising. What is the consequence of this development for the energy agreement? Are projects no longer going on because they are no longer profitable? Can the Minister guarantee that no additional money is needed for the energy agreement because of this development? The energy agreement does not regulate the security of supply. Can the Minister indicate how he sees security of supply secured? Does the Minister expect the capacity now in the mothballs to remain available in the longer term? What action will the Minister take if reserve capacity decreases? What is his vision of capacity markets? Can the Minister indicate that he will be more active in the European debate on this future market model? Can the Minister say anything about cooperation in this area with Germany? Finally, how is the Minister dealing with the scenarios that large energy producers could go bankrupt as a result of the energy transition? Is there going to be a rescue, like the banks, or is he trying to prevent that from happening?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u95	The VVD Group asked the Minister to do a large amount of homework, namely precisely dividing out the costs of the avoided tonnes of CO. Then the VVD Group said: we support the agreement anyway and we voted in favour of the budget. Does the VVD not agree with me that it is nonsense to burden the Minister and his officials with even more work, whereas those same officials could be useful in, for example, actually implementing the agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u96	No, that's what GroenLinks and the VVD think differently. The VVD likes fact politics. We would like to know the impact of measures and how expensive they are. Boosting electric cars costs between €800 and €1,600 per avoided ton of CO. It's even better to do CO storage at a coal power plant or build a nuclear power plant. That'll pay off if you reduce CO. I think it is important that we know what the desired measures cost society, so that, when we start evaluating, we have an insight into whether we are doing the right things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u97	So the VVD wants information to put certain things in a bad light, while the VVD says: we support it anyway. It has just been said: we support the whole energy agreement and it simply needs to be implemented as it has been drawn up; however, we do want a lot of additional information, but still we agree and we also agree with all the budgets. Well, then that's bullshit homework, isn't it? That's just civil servants. They work very hard, and you shouldn't put them on bullshit. By the way, those cars are not in the energy agreement. Mr. Hollow knows that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u98	You can call that bullshit homework when you're afraid of the uncomfortable facts. If you don't want to know the effects of your policy, you say, Minister, never mind. If you want to know what the effects are and if you are worried about Dutch taxpayers' money, you say: what is the proceeds of the tax euro? If it's negative, you need to be able to explain. I think we should be able to explain that. If we start evaluating in 2016, we can also make choices and see if we can't do smarter things than we are doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u99	I very much agree with the VVD that we need to know what the effect of what we're doing is. If it is the result of this passing-through that the co-financing in the coal-fired power stations does not actually produce any results, does the VVD think that the subsidy should be reviewed again? If you still need some of that to achieve your goal, you might want to work with an obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u100	If we know what it costs per avoided tonne of CO, the advantage is that we can have that discussion. The energy agreement does more, of course, and it meets the target of 14% renewable energy. It does that in the most efficient way. But it's about the CO reduction. We know the cost per amount of electricity generated, because that is regulated via the SDE+. However, we have no idea whether the measures are effective for what we really want, namely climate change and CO reduction. So if we can get that information together, we can look into it when we start evaluating. Perhaps it is much smarter to do things better than we are doing now, so that it can provide taxpayers with money, or, as I would really like, speed up the energy transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u101	We agree. I am pleased that, in addition to CO reduction, Mr Veegte has also highlighted the achievement of the 14% targets as an important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u102	I also fully agree with Mr Veegte that we need to understand the costs and effectiveness of the measures. The CPB has calculated that offshore wind farms cost society EUR 5 billion more than they do; they also do not produce any CO reduction. Is Mr Void prepared to stop this policy with this science?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u103	That was the interrupting debate with the SP, which was a bit complicated and hoped that it would not really be 5 billion loss of prosperity. Of course it is, but it is also a good thing that we know those facts and that we can explain why we are doing that. Why do we do that? Because we have to do something about energy transition. In that the PVV differs from the VVD. The VVD thinks we should do something. The advantage of this roll-out is that industry has committed itself to 40% cost reduction. That's quite something. Nowhere in the world has such an arrangement been made. If we don't make it, there won't be windmills.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u104	A 40% reduction in costs for offshore windmills means that windmills at sea are still twice or three times more expensive than ordinary fossil power, but that aside. Do I understand correctly that the VVD does want to understand the costs, but if it turns out to be 5 billion loss of prosperity and zero CO reduction, the VVD is prepared to destroy EUR 5 billion in prosperity purely and simply for the sake of a paper Brussels objective?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u105	No, the Party for Freedom doesn't understand that very well. With the insight that we want to gather with D66, we know what the CO reduction of windmills at sea is. That 40% cost reduction means €110 per megawatt in 2023, we know that. So that's not three times as much, but one and a half times as much, if the electricity price would be comparable at that time. No one has a glass ball, but €110 is the deal. Then we know what the cost of electricity is and we know what the effectiveness is for CO reduction. Then we can decide whether that is smarter than co-incineration of biomass or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u106	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the parliamentary inquiry in progress called 'the energy agreement'. Never before have so many Dutch paid so much money to get so little in return. The paragraph Wind energy at sea alone costs EUR 18 billion in subsidy money. That's more than the Fyra, the HSL, the Betuweline and the JSF put together. The CPB has calculated that building offshore wind farms costs society EUR 5 billion more than it produces, and last year the Economic Institute for Construction already calculated the loss of prosperity at 6 billion. It is incomprehensible that the entire Chamber, with the exception of the PVV, agrees to this. With the elections to the Provincial States now suddenly there are parties who are concerned about the support for all these windmills, but in voting time only the PVV is consistent against this mispolicy. Under pressure from 40 lobby clubs, the Minister decides to grant EUR 18 billion for wind energy at sea. Where lobby clubs only have an eye for their own interests, the Minister should be aware of the general interest. The general interest is that the Netherlands needs an affordable and reliable energy supply, a basic condition for a healthy competitive economy, capable of creating jobs and paying the bill of our welfare state. That is at the heart of our criticism of this agreement. We spend a lot of money, but it's not gonna do us any good. This weekend we read again in De Telegraaf that scientists have long agreed: the energy agreement leads to more instead of less CO emissions, in the world there is an abundance of fossil energy and the billions of investments in wind energy mean an enormous transfer of wealth from poor to rich. No environmental gains, no welfare gains, no sustainable employment gains and no innovations that offer the prospect of affordable, sustainable energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u107	A study carried out by the IMF, i.e. a few years ago in 2011, shows that global fossil fuel subsidies amounted to around EUR 1,500 billion per year compared to EUR 88 billion for renewable energy in that year. That's gonna be a little higher now, but the difference is huge. Why does Mrs Klever turn it around when the facts show a completely different story?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u108	I think Mr Smaling is turning it around. TNO calculated last year that the Dutch State earns 50 billion euros in fossil energy. I just said in an interruption that Shell pays 5 billion euros of tax every year, but I was wrong. It's higher. Shell pays 6.9 billion euros of tax annually. I wish there were more such companies in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u109	But I'm still surprised that the PVV doesn't realize that, although there are huge reserves of gas, coal and oil in the world, we're going through stocks in two generations that have been built up for hundreds of millions of years. That's in front of our grandchildren, isn't it? I do not understand why the PVV is so persistent in an area where every sane person thinks we should do so. It costs a lot, but it's also going to create jobs, and hopefully our grandchildren will have a better planet. That's as ready as a whistle, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u110	I know Mr. Smaling as someone who sticks to the facts, but he's really coming up with blanks right now. In the World Energy Outlook 2014, recently released, it says that there is oil for 178 years with new techniques, for 233 years of gas and for 30 centuries of coal. Let us not say that in one or two generations we drive our fossil fuels through it. That's bullshit. If Mr Smaling is patient, he will hear in my speech that I call on him to wait for technological progress. Let us not bet on expensive, outdated windmill technology, which means that households have to pay an additional €200 to €500 per year. I cannot imagine that Mr Smaling of the SP is in favour of this and that his constituents have so much money that they can pay €200 to €500 a year extra to the energy bill. I really do not understand Mr Smaling. The leaked report of the Research Council for Security on gas extraction in the Netherlands states that different opinions were systematically dismissed by the Minister as nonsense. I believe that the committee of inquiry into the energy agreement will come to the same conclusion. This was evident recently in the legislative consultation on energy, when the Minister did not want to answer my questions. By the way, I appreciate that last weekend the Minister admitted the mistakes in the 2014 National Energy Exploratory after some pressure from our side, in the end, still generously. The towering bill of the energy agreement is deposited with households that have no money to invest in solar panels or energy saving and cannot buy a share in the local windmill. These are the 1.3 million households whose mortgage is under water and the 2.3 million people living in poverty in the Netherlands. The Minister may agree that these households should borrow money for all kinds of measures, but that is quite difficult when you are financially on the ground. And that bill is high. Households will pay extra €250 per year for their energy bill and an additional €250 per year because companies will pass on their higher costs to consumers. How does the Minister intend to prevent an alarming increase in the number of power cuts, as in Germany? I see the Minister is talking, but I assume the question is being heard. The PVV has nothing against renewable energy, but against too expensive energy. Making our energy supply sustainable through massive subsidies is a dead end. An energy vision should not focus on the question of what form of renewable energy receives a subsidy or the forced achievement of a European objective. An energy vision must be based on an affordable and reliable energy supply. An energy vision must be about how we can make the most of innovation and progress as a country. There are many initiatives for innovative ways of generating energy that can make our energy supply cheaper in the long term rather than more expensive, such as thin-film solar cells, fusion, thorium, or the blue energy recently mentioned. We therefore ask the Minister to do the following. Do not subsidise the generation of energy, but let the market do its job. Tear up the energy chord, stop the windmill charge and roll out windmills. Avoid a parliamentary survey!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u111	Mr. Chairman. The challenges are enormous. Scarceness in fossil energy sources and climate change have a major impact on creation, on our society and on the economy. If we do nothing now, we will set the financial and ecological bill for future generations. Society has understood the message much before. The big transition is already underway. I refer to the many energy cooperatives that have come off the ground or are in the starting blocks. The National Energy Exploratory shows that the growth of renewable energy reduces energy prices, while the price of fossil energy is about to rise. Furthermore, we want to reduce our dependence on Russian gas sources and Arab oil sheiks. The energy agreement is not going to change that enough. The agreement is an important implementation agenda for the period up to 2020, but it is not a transition agenda for the period beyond, until 2050. The energy agreement does not bring about the desired change to a green economy. The Christian Union believes that the Netherlands should become one of the sustainable leaders in Europe. This requires an extra effort. As far as we are concerned, that is an energy agreement plus. Does the government, together with scientists, companies and NGOs, want to work with such an energy agreement plus? The ball for that is firmly in the cabinet. There are plenty of opportunities to get to work on this. I refer to the greening of the tax system, but also, for example, large-scale energy savings. According to the energy agreement, we are achieving 1.2% savings, and that is really not enough to achieve the goals. There are opportunities in industry, the built environment and the mobility sector. It would be good to do more scientific research into clean techniques. All of this requires far-reaching choices. For example, the emissions trading system, ETS, does not work at all. Polluting plants can produce electricity cheaply and do not pay or hardly pay the cost of pollution. Think of CO emissions, air pollution, environmental damage in raw material extraction: the less the polluter pays, the more subsidies we all lose on clean energy. The cabinet not only maintains this gap of polluting energy, but even increases the difference. Older coal-fired power stations are closed down by adjusting the efficiency requirements, but new, even larger power stations are coming back and environmental gains are zero. In addition, the coal tax is stopped. This increases the price difference between clean energy and coal flow, increasing the subsidy for renewable energy. Why does the government opt for the more favourable tax environment for coal-fired power stations? That's the reverse world, isn't it? Can the government at least promise that the coal tax will not be abolished until the five power stations have all been closed down? On the basis of the National Energy Exploratory, it also seems necessary to adjust the energy agreement to a number of elements. I will mention a number of them. The Minister talks about savings of 1.2 billion in the SDE+ scheme due to the new approach to offshore wind energy. This money will be badly needed to achieve more renewable energy and energy savings. Is the money actually available for this? From this year onwards, the subsidy for biomass in coal-fired power stations will also start. It is an incomprehensible and expensive choice, says the Christian Union. We're going to spend billions of subsidy money burning wood that first has to cross the Atlantic by ship. The public contribution per kilowatt hour is higher than the remuneration for civil co-operatives producing solar energy. We're really going back in time with the burning of grant money. In addition, the subsidy will start without harsh requirements for certification of wood at plot level. This is explicitly stated in the energy agreement. Why is the Minister releasing this appointment? In this way, EUR 4 billion of subsidies for uncertified wood will go into flames. I have held a motion on this, which I will also be voting on next week. Another question is why companies receive 10% exemption for co-incineration of other and cheaper biomass than wood. Then there's oversubsidisation, isn't there? Now that the construction of windmills on land is being expanded, it is important to involve residents in time, to work on support and also to give them the opportunity to participate. My question is whether the code of conduct is now the starting point for all authorisation procedures. I have seen a letter from the minister to the municipality of Borger-Odoorn about wind energy in their municipality. The latter is really mentioned as the last argument. What place does the minister have support for now? I mentioned the issue of energy saving. I think we really need to step up, because 1.2% a year is not enough. In doing so, I would like to conclude my first-term contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u112	My question concerns energy saving, with which the Christian Union has just concluded. There was a motion adopted by Mr Van Ojik in September, in which a majority of the Chamber stated that existing agreements on energy saving should indeed be intensified. Has the Christian Union seen anything of this in what the cabinet has sent us?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u113	The Christian Union certainly supported this motion. Unfortunately, as GroenLinks probably pointed out, we do not see enough of that. We have agreed on energy saving. The objective would be 100 petajoule. With the measures now envisaged, we may be able to get to half of them. So much more is needed. Perhaps together we can ask the cabinet what additional measures the cabinet intends to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u114	I agree with the Christian Union. The original agreement in the energy agreement is not being reached, but it certainly does not implement this motion, which has indeed been supported by the Christian Union, namely to step up efforts to save energy. We are therefore all interested in the answer of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u115	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u116	Mr. Chairman. The implementation of the energy agreement is well under way. It is now a matter of keeping course. The Labour Party is very keen on this. Today there are a number of points of attention, first of all the biomass that has already been mentioned. For example, not only the environmental movement, but also the Wood Platform in the Netherlands, why will pallets that we burn in our coal plants be subject to different rules than all the other wood we use in the Netherlands? Why does the consumer buy an FSC-certified garden table from GAMMA, but can we throw something that is not FSC-certified in our coal plants? We are disappointed that, despite the hard work, energy companies and environmental organisations did not reach an agreement in the end. We appreciate the commitment of the Minister, who has now taken a decision himself, but we have serious doubts about the content of that decision. Why, for example, does the Minister choose to take the risk that applications for 2015 and 2016 will not have to meet sustainability criteria throughout the SDE+ period? After all, the duration of the SDE+ decision is eight years. Only in 2024 is all the wood required certified. Why is the Minister in such a hurry to open up SDE+ to biomass? In order to achieve 25 petajoule by 2020, opening in 2016 or 2017 will also be possible, according to my group's opinion. You'll have enough investment time to adjust the power stations. We also have questions about the level of the subsidy. The story was always that biomass was one of the cheapest options, but with €0,09 per kilowatt-hour fee that amount is higher than a fee for a windmill on land, and also higher than the remuneration given in the context of, for example, the postcode rose. How exactly is this amount built up and does the Minister, who is always right to pay attention to expenditure, not question it himself? Is it true that 10% can be co-heated with a residual stream that is cheaper and for which this €0,09 grant is awarded? If so, why is the Minister giving an over-subsidies here that he rightly does not give for other technology options? It is precisely because the parties were almost out and there is no acute haste and because the strength of the energy agreement lies in the great social support, that we propose that the Minister make another attempt to bring the parties back to the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u117	Of course, it sounds very brave and clear to say that there should be an FSC mark, but does Mr Vos of the Labour Party realize that it would allow you to burn sustainable FSC tropical hardwood from Malaysia into a coal power plant but not Finnish turnip wood from a pine tree that is ten years later as big as it was?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u118	What matters to me is that in the Netherlands there must be consensus among environmental organisations, the wood-selling industry, and I would almost like to say to your supporters, and the coal-fired power stations about how these sustainable pallets are being set up in these plants. That consensus is not there now. FSC seems to be the best guarantee for this. So you have the NTA-8080 directive that is being discussed. Of course, we can go into all these details now, but I don't want to do that. What I am saying is, let these parties sit down together again. I think the power of the energy agreement is that almost 50 organisations and companies have come together. I am very sorry that it has not been possible at this point. Moreover, I am not convinced of the result that is now being achieved, following the intervention of the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u119	If you say "FSC is not necessary," I understand, because the simplicity of the measure says something about complexity at the same time. If you're saying it should only be FSC...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u120	I'd like to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u121	... then it means that, for example, it does not include the turnip or fallwood of a tree from Finland. It therefore adds nothing to sustainability, while parties who negotiate with it have interests in those labels. So it makes sense for them to argue for their own label. If you say that FSC is of no interest to you, I can follow your argument. However, if you say it should be FSC, I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u122	I'd like to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u123	...then I think the Labour Party is making a mistake of thinking, which I would like to correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u124	I think it is quite clear that we in the Netherlands do not want wood made of primordial forests from Siberia or tropical hardwood from anywhere in the world to disappear in our power stations under the guise of sustainability. At the moment, coal farmers have their own set of criteria, which I am not convinced of or which ultimately meet the sustainability requirements. I therefore call for a general and clear line, namely the FSC label. What I would like to ask the Minister on behalf of the Chamber today is to go back to the negotiating table to get these parties out of there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u125	Mr Vos said just now: the PvdA is closely monitoring the implementation of the energy agreement. Well, let's test that on the basis of two questions. If there is no agreement on a good growth path for biomass, does Mr Vos think that the subsidy should not be given this year? That was question one. With regard to energy saving in the built environment, we still lack a huge amount of measures. The bail committee is working on it. If it does not come up with concrete measures within six months, should the government itself come up with measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u126	The answer to your first question: I think it is a good thing that until 1 March of this year we give the parties the opportunity to get out. I would like to ask the Minister not to grant any subsidies for the additional and most of the biomass in power stations until then. So that seems clear to me. Then there is the second question. Together, we have tabled a motion to increase the teeth of Minister Blok's energy saving fund, which is also here today. I understand there was a sympathetic response from the cabinet. I am very interested in the way in which this goodwill is shaped in concrete action. I would therefore like to look forward to the reaction of the cabinet on this issue. We can then see if further intervention by the Chamber is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u127	I'm half happy with the answer. Can the first point, about the sharp monitoring, just be a little sharper? Suppose no agreement was reached in March. Does the subsidy go in, or does it not go in until there is agreement on that path of development?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u128	What I appreciate so much about you is that you always look far ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u129	Thank you. Would you like to speak through the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u130	Government is forward-thinking, it is sometimes said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u131	What I always appreciate in the D66 Group in general and in Mrs van Veldhoven in particular is the distant horizon she chooses, the wide-ranging view she has and the way she tries to strategically operate in it. However, there is something I do not appreciate. For my part, I do this differently: I do not want to record every detail in the future and I like to do business step by step. On March 1st we will talk more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u132	The long horizon for the PvdA is therefore March, as we can see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u133	I note a critical attitude towards biomass at the PvdA. I share that critical attitude. Mr Vos has just noted that subsidies are relatively high compared to renewable energy such as wind on land and solar PV. What are the consequences of this by Mr Vos? Or is he just finding out and saying that we need to talk about this again? I would like to have a more detailed explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u134	The way in which the SDE+ scheme has been built is such that the most cost-effective way is first. In that order, something automatically changes without us having to do anything about it. I do wonder why there is such restraint about, for example, the postcode rose scheme, which has a very strong support for the Dutch people. A lot of people want a solar panel on their roof or on the roof of the gym or their children's school to collectively generate sustainable energy. This has become a very complex regulation, because people were afraid of oversubsidisation. However, I wonder how the amount of money spent on biomass by-products, which is about EUR 3 billion, is related to the amount spent on the postcode rose scheme, which is about EUR 10 million and all the fuss we have made about it. That may not have been quite the right path after all. I am therefore wondering whether I have just asked the cabinet whether there is any question of a progressive view of the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u135	We have tried twice to expand the postcode rose, but we have not received the PvdA's support for this. We're just gonna try again. I have a follow-up question. We now know that biomass has a price and we see that it is not innovative and does not actually create new jobs. Yesterday, the Academy was very critical of environmental gains in an article. Aren't all alarm bells gonna ring at the PvdA? Doesn't she think that perhaps we should take a little time to get to the spot, because it is not the most ideal way to work on our energy transition? In fact, this does not contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u136	Contrary to what is now suggested, the postcode rose scheme has been amended several times by the PvdA and also by the Cabinet. For example, we have arranged for the second connection, the extension of the deadline and a number of other matters, which has made this system more flexible. Like Mrs Dik-Faber's party, the PvdA has worked hard on this. We've even given each other a little bit of credit, politics. I therefore think that Mrs Dik-Faber's comment is a short one. The second point I have just discussed with Mrs Van Veldhoven. It is clear that we are putting a brake on this and want to give the parties the chance to get out of it again until 1 March 2015. Until then, we would not want to grant a subsidy. On this point, I hope once again for the support of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u137	I thought they were amendments by GroenLinks which extended the time limit of the Postal Code lottery, pardon, the postcode rose scheme, it is almost a lottery............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I have one more question about the strict supervision. How does the PvdA view the sharp monitoring of the implementation of the energy agreement on the "transport" chapter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u138	That's a very broad question. Can Mrs Van Tongeren explain what she wants to know?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u139	Here's what I'd like to know. With the agreements of the Energy Agreement, there has been a transport pillar that had not been filled in in the original agreement. There were some intentions in it, but it didn't say exactly what measures should be taken. There are objectives in it. Mr Vos says: we want to carry it out and we are very keen to see that this happens. So my question is again about transport. I can't imagine the PvdA being satisfied with the progress. I assume the PvdA also has questions about this to the Minister. Maybe the PvdA itself has ideas about what to do first in the transport sector. Do you need to get more innovation on the road soon? Do you have to promote the New Driving? Do you have to consider charging? Do you have to want 130 km/h on the road? I'm talking about the whole package. Let me help Mr. Vos on his way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u140	I do not have any specific comments at the moment on the transport section. The energy agreement is, of course, very large and very thick. We can get it through in detail, but I've got a few points of interest out of it today. Transport isn't one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u141	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u142	I hear Mr Vos say that the parties at the table regarding the Labour Party should look again at the sustainability criteria when it comes to biomass reform. Until then, no subsidy, he says. I would like to know from the Labour Party whether it will also consider independently the question of how useful it is to rekindle biomass. The parties at the table have conflicting interests. Once again, we can read that the climate gains of biomass do not exist or do not exist, while we are at risk of deforestation. Is that worth having a label, complying with it and all the subsidies?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u143	With biomass, you actually see a bit of the same thing that happened with biofuel. At first the green guard, to put it that way, was very enthusiastic about it and she also encouraged it. Then it appeared that there were a large number of disadvantages to biofuel. That's what you're seeing with biomass now. There are growing doubts about this too. There is therefore a progressive understanding of whether it is wise to continue to do so. In a number of countries, for example the United Kingdom, you can also see that the debate on biomass has turned around. As a coalition partner, I do not want to get my signature under the energy agreement now, because it is a very broad agreement, in which everyone can find something of their liking and in which people can also find things that they absolutely do not agree with. So I would like to support the mission of 25 petajoule, but on the condition that the sustainability criteria are really good. Another element is, of course, that the cost of biomass is much higher than we always thought. We always thought it was cheap and that way we could achieve our sustainability goal cheaply. Especially on the more conservative side of Parliament, this argument has been used. Now it turns out that it is ultimately more expensive than wind on land and as expensive as, for example, the postcode rose scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u144	Mrs. Ouwehand, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u145	In fact, I would like to know whether the Labour Party will be able to decide for itself whether this is sustainable, whatever the outcome of the talks between the parties, and thus to give an assessment of the sustainability criteria that may or may not come out of it itself. Here we have the ultimate responsibility to determine whether we're going to spend our taxpayers' money on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u146	I have just said that, as far as I am concerned, the FSC mark should apply here. That is the position of my group. However, I have also said that I think it is of greater importance that the parties participating in the energy agreement come together, because precisely the great public support for the agreement as a whole means that we as a country are marching a certain route. I think that is worth more than the individual position of my group. Mr. Chairman. I come to the closure of the old coal power stations. In the energy agreement, we agreed that the coal tax would be abolished on 1 January 2016 or that the exemption would no longer apply. The three oldest coal plants would also close as of 1 January 2016 and the other two as of 1 July 2017. That deal was rejected by the ACM because of a perceived disturbance of the market. All parties want to find a solution. Now we have the new story here that the old power stations with the lowest energy yields after the dates mentioned will no longer comply with the law. There will be a separate section on the legislative amendment that will have to come into force. In today's main debate, my group wishes to make one point very clear, namely that the exemption from the coal tax is conditional on the closure of coal power stations. We will also ask the Chamber to give a ruling on this. I'll get wind on land. In order to achieve 14% of renewable energy, we will have to achieve a small triple of the number of windmills on land. That's a lot of hassle in our little country. Can the Minister confirm that all provinces have submitted plans? Can he indicate when he sends an appreciation of those plans to the Chamber? My group does not want to get in the way of the Minister in this complex dossier, but at one place in the Netherlands the tension is high, namely in Friesland. The PvdA has deliberately given the provinces room to think about the best locations. We understand the desire to use the Afsluitdijk for wind energy, but we do want the guarantee that the objectives we have agreed on will be achieved. We understand that it affects each other or that the two questions can mutually exclude each other. My question to the Minister is whether he would like to look very seriously at the request of the province. Does he want to see what possibilities there are? I would also ask him to look carefully at which plans can actually be implemented by 2020 and can count on most support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u147	Perhaps the VVD will receive other e-mails, but also your PvdA-deputy Rein Munniksma from Drenthe...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u148	I'd like to speak through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u149	... and PvdA Deputy Moorlag from Groningen are very concerned about the windmills. They also have alternative plans. Why does the Labour Party think in the Lower House that Friesland should be able to get an exception, but that Groningen, Drenthe and Noord-Holland should not be able to get it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u150	As far as Drenthe is concerned, my group would like to hear from the Minister whether he takes up the motions of June 2014 and December 2014 relating to the area vision. We also want to ask him when he'll make a decision. I am also looking at Mr de Vries, who has tabled these motions. The suggestion that we should not concern ourselves with Drenthe is therefore far from my point of view. We have very regular contact with Mr Moorlag in various ways. With regard to Groningen, it is important that the sixth variant of the N33 project is taken over by the Minister and that, in accordance with the motion of this Chamber of December 2014, he undertakes, together with the province, initiators and residents, to seek as little as possible annoying attitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u151	The important political question you always ask in such cases is whether this is a non-binding appeal from the Labour Party. If the minister answers that he doesn't give room, is it done? Or is the Labour Party going to press ahead and ask for a postponement for these provinces again per motion in order to obtain maximum acceptance?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u152	We have tabled several motions on this dossier to help provincial directors and, above all, residents of the municipalities affected by the windmills in order to achieve better decision-making. If that is necessary, we will do it again on this dossier. Mr Leegte of the VVD knows me very well in this respect, as does Mr De Vries, another colleague who is very keen on the Groninger case and who is now looking critically at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u153	Would the Labour Party feel that this dossier should be withdrawn in the three northern provinces through a form of mediation? I have already mentioned Mr Winsemius. Friesland is mentioned, but I was in Meeden last week. There are signs on the side of the road that are not too friendly about the Labour Party. I do not allow Mr Vos to do that. Does he see any possibility of pulling the raft and getting this file moving?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u154	As Mr Smaling knows, it is very easy from the opposition to win souls. However, if you bear government responsibility, you will get a little more criticism. The same applies to this dossier. I don't feel like giving the northern provinces a different treatment than other Dutch. I think everyone in the Netherlands should be treated equally. This applies to people but also to provinces.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u155	"Winning souls" is an extremely annoying characterization of political companies. So I'm throwing that far from me. Nor do I care about the difference between the three northern provinces and the rest. We must give wind on land its place within the energy agreement. That is what Mr Vos himself says. There are several traces in the energy agreement. We'd like them all to walk well. What is preventing Mr Vos from forcing a breakthrough in those three provinces, so that we do not get what is happening now in Emmen, namely that the largest party is just an antiwind party? Let the results in Groningen, Friesland and Drenthe not be quite "antiwind mill." Now is the time to bring his vague motion from a month ago to the attention of the Minister and ask him what, in his view, is the concrete translation of that vague motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u156	Just so we're clear, our Earth warms up at 3.6 degrees. That is why we are switching to renewable energy. That's what we all do here. We invest a lot of money in that and we spend a lot of time on it. Why do we do that? Because of young people, such as Marlo of 7 years old, who is sitting in the public gallery today and has won an auction at 3FM Serious Request because his mother has made a very generous contribution to this and she therefore walk with me for a day. We're doing it so that Marlo, if he's not 7 years old but 70 years old, can still live decently on this earth and we didn't kill the place because of all the CO emissions. What do we have to do for that? We need to build renewable energy for that. That's what we have to build windmills for. We're not only gonna make it with solar panels or blue energy, as much as I'd like to. These windmills must be installed in the Netherlands. We place them at sea, in large numbers, and also on land. Everyone in the Netherlands knows that this is a small country with a lot of people. So these windmills are bothering us. We are all trying to do as much as possible, we tabled a number of motions for them in December and June, and we have discussed them several times here. But it's clear that people will suffer. I think it is clear that we are trying to do it as carefully as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u157	I have a question for the PvdA Group. The CDA is extremely happy that the PvdA group chooses a positive approach to the Afsluitdijk. It indicates that it gives extra time when it is needed. Suppose that situation would also occur in Drenthe and Groningen. Is the PvdA Group prepared to do the same generosity?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u158	What I have said is that the decision of the States of Fryslân must be taken very seriously by the Minister. I've asked the Minister to see how he can fit it in. I also told him that I believe that the objectives and timeline laid down for everyone must be met. I would like to repeat what I said to Mr Smaling: everyone must be treated equally. We can't make an exception for one province that we don't make for the other province.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u159	Then I conclude that the PvdA Group is prepared to give the room to achieve the objectives properly, as the CDA Group indicated in the first term, and that it must also be done with the inhabitants. That's good to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u160	Mr Leegte wants to interrupt, but I have already heard him in this round. We're going to see Mrs. Klever. Mr Leegte's turn is again at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u161	Did Mr Vos also tell Marlo that the windmills when he was 70 were demolished 40 years ago because they were just written off, and that he had nothing for 40 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u162	I had not yet got to that, but now that Mrs Klever makes this suggestion, I will certainly bring it up in the aftermath of this sitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u163	Mr Vos does not give people like Marlo any future renewable energy. Mr. Vos saddles people like Marlo with a very expensive bill, for which they get nothing at all. That is the honest story, and that is the story Mr Vos should be telling here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u164	I would like to invite Mrs Klever to talk to Marlo herself after this meeting. Then we can see what he actually wants. Maybe Mrs. Klever can learn something from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u165	I have a brief question on a point made by Mr Vos. He says that all provinces must be treated equally and the objectives must be achieved in time. The deadline was January 1. We've been over that for 12 days. What is the value of the remark he made about Friesland, but also about Drenthe and Groningen, in which he wants to offer a perspective to think again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u166	I also asked the Minister if he has now received all the decisions of the provinces. How does he judge them and how does he intend to proceed? As far as I am concerned, there is room for the Minister to implement it in his own way, with the understanding that, of course, everyone must be treated equally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u167	For the record, the deadline was 1 September and was postponed to 1 January. That was generous of the Minister. There have been no plans that seem to come to fruition. What is the value of Mr Vos' comment? Does he want to extend the deadline to 1 March or 1 June or is this a non-binding thing: nice for the people in Friesland, but ultimately it doesn't pay off?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u168	I do not understand Mr Void's point very well. Everyone has sent their proposals. The Minister must now give them an appreciation and fill out how he wants to deal with it. I'd love to hear that appreciation. Anything is still possible, but subject to the reservation that everyone has done their homework now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u169	You have 29 seconds to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I come to energy saving. During the legislative consultation on energy, we tabled a motion together with D66 to improve the operation of the energy saving fund for individuals. The interest rate of the fund is high, above the market level........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I tried to fill out the forms myself, but I gave up halfway. What has the Cabinet done to make things easier? I know that not only the VVD narrow part is very attached to reducing that paper pressure. I have come to the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u171	Tell me it's not true. After a brief ten-minute suspension, we are going to listen to Minister Blok, who has a relatively short block of answers. Then I'll suspend for dinner break, then Minister Kamp will answer. Then Mrs Van Miltenburg will be chairing the meeting again. She's at the King's reception right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u172	Minister Blok will leave us in the first term after his reply. You can ask all questions to him afterwards. Motions can be submitted in second term; they will be commented on by Minister Kamp. I'll give the minister a moment to finish his text. We do not want it to be misspelled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u173	Mr President, thank you for the floor and thank you for your understanding of the use of modern technology. I would like to thank Members for their questions on the development of the energy agreement in my area, the built environment. As the Chamber knows, over the past year a number of instruments have been put into the market. I shall now turn to the latest state of play on the National Energy Savings Fund. A subsidy scheme for housing corporations has been put on the market, which is being properly used. A revolving fund for housing corporations has also been put on the market, for very energy-efficient renovations. The first applications have now been submitted. Last week we started sending energy labels to homeowners. This is a very large operation which unfortunately, but perhaps also a bit inevitable, is accompanied by a number of initial problems. This is partly due to the fact that there appears to be a great deal of interest. There is an enormous amount of login on the website. By the way, that's no reason to say that it's okay that the website was a bit overloaded, but this indicates that the purpose of sending such an energy label seems to be working as well. We want to make people aware and hope that they will calculate again behind the computer what the state of affairs is and how they can improve it. So that seems to be working. Much has been done, but I agree with the speakers that we should keep our finger on the pulse and see if the instruments work as they are intended. I now turn to the specific questions that I have been asked. Mr Smaling said that there are still very great achievements to be made in terms of energy saving in the built environment. I very much agree with him. A large part of the energy use takes place there. In passing on the energy agreement, the great potential that remains there has also been demonstrated. That is why I have worked very hard on the measures I have just mentioned. Some measures run faster than others, I realize, but if they were not there, we would not even be able to see where the successes are and where we still have to pour some oil into the machine. To be honest, I am therefore happy that we now have the instruments working. For the heat section, I understood Mr Smaling's question, I refer to Mr EZ's colleague. The Heat Act is in its warm hands. Mrs. Ouwehand was a bit more gloomy. It indicated that the energy saving of existing homes was not sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u174	Thanks for the answer. I have a supplementary question. If you look at the three categories of rental, purchase and social property, are you buying behind due to the fact that individuals just have their own home? Or isn't that the Minister's view? Does this have to do with a bigger battle than the other two groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u175	Behind Mr Smaling's theorem that buying is behind, there is an assumption that I do not recognize immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u176	Housing corporations are generally hard at work. New construction also goes faster than existing construction, but we are only starting with these labels now. This is not a great success, but you could decide, for example, that a person applying for a building permit must also take a label step. Suppose someone moves, then the notary could only transport that if...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u177	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u178	The Minister has taken the first steps, but behind them are all kinds of opportunities to accelerate the buying sector. Is that how the Minister sees it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u179	Mr Smaling says that in the rental sector, and especially in the social rental sector, it is generally easier to make large-scale renovation and energy savings investments. I recognize that. After all, a landlord is used to thinking in terms of long-term investments. Often such a landlord also has a maintenance schedule where housing insulation can be fitted in. A private owner makes very own considerations. Sometimes he doesn't even have the financial space to take action at all. If he does have that space, he can consider whether he uses it to isolate his house, to go on vacation, or to clean up the bathroom or the kitchen. So what we are doing on the private side is, on the one hand, taking action in the area of awareness. This energy label is very important. On the other hand, there are measures to seduce. The low-interest energy savings loan is of great importance here, but I have also extended the loan criteria for mortgages for zero-on-meter housing, for example. The market also plays a major role in this. Organisations such as Bouwend Nederland and the installation companies, UNITO-VNI, were also party to the energy agreement. For example, they have said that they will come up with an energy performance guarantee so that the consumer knows: if I invest this in my home, I can expect so much energy savings and therefore also a payback schedule. I know that this energy performance guarantee is being worked on, but it is not there yet. That part of the agreement has not yet been fully worked out. So we take that combination of measures. I really think it's too early to say it wouldn't work. That is what Mr Smaling's follow-up question is about, namely whether I want to take additional, more binding measures. No, I don't. We have made a deal with each other in which all parties have delivered their share. Of course, all kinds of binding agreements have been discussed in these negotiations. That's not what was chosen. We also agreed that we will evaluate in 2016. That seems logical to me, because a number of measures will be introduced in 2015. For example, I mentioned this energy performance guarantee. Impatience and ambition are good, but I wouldn't think it was purely a matter of changing the rules of the game. Mrs Ouwehand was somewhat gloomier about the progress of housing insulation in existing buildings. She also specifically mentioned the light in offices and the heat that leaks from shops after closing time. I have just mentioned the package of measures relating to housing. On the basis of the credit transfers, it is estimated that this leads to both some 25,000 additional residential units to be insulated on the purchase side as well as 25,000 additional residential units to be insulated on the rental side. That's substantial, isn't it? The same applies to the corresponding employment. Existing buildings already have an obligation, under the Environmental Management Act, to carry out investments in energy saving that can be recovered in five years. So that is really a firmer and more binding package than what applies to homes. Mrs Ouwehand also mentioned the lighting that burns at night. First of all, I should like to mention that there is a safety balance. That lighting also often burns to see if there are people in the building. Unfortunately, this point must also be taken into account. Of course at that point you can do a lot with motion sensors. Investment in this will often be of the type that pays back in five years. Thus, a ban would create a real safety problem, but I believe that we can also improve this part of energy use through the Environmental Management Act in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u180	Mrs Mulder wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u181	I was just about to answer her question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u182	Then let's do it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u183	Mrs Mulder asked me what employment effects we expect. I agree with her that one of the objectives of the Energy Agreement is to create jobs in the construction sector. This sector has, of course, been going through a difficult time and is still going through a difficult time. That is why the energy agreement really does have a huge amount of Community money. The 400 million that goes to the housing corporations is actually paid for by all of us. This in itself is for the charities of energy saving and employment, but I would not be so quick to know another social sector where so much money is going. We don't just do it with money. We also do it with awareness, the energy labels. Once again, the business community has to make a big deal of money with these energy performance guarantees. The transfer of the energy agreement is expected to have a significant effect on employment. I have no reason to doubt that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u184	I have two questions. The first is because of what the Minister said to Mr Smaling. It's about the energy saving fund. I think the Minister had concluded that point by now. That's why I thought: I have to ask about that now. Partly because of the answers to our group's questions during oral Question Time, the impression remains that one side of the window, namely Overijssel, is working well and the other side, unfortunately, is not working well. The Minister indicated in December that he wanted to wait until the 2016 review. That was precisely today's point in terms of: if that already brings with it so many employment effects and you may conclude with each other that it doesn't work, it would be a bit of a shame to wait until 2016. That would be a missed opportunity, especially to get employment to a higher level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u185	The comparison with Overijssel is an interesting one. We keep in close contact with them, as well as with other provinces and municipalities with energy savings funds. Overijssel differs in two main areas. One is that it is fully funded with community money, while the national fund also contains private money. Of course, it's also the question of how much community money you have available. Overijssel is good at cash through the sale of energy companies. Point two is that Overijssel also offers the possibility to fully deploy the loan for solar energy. Some 90% of applications are used for this purpose. The employment effect of solar cells on the roof is quite large in China, but these people never send us a thank-you letter. But that effect is rather small in the Netherlands. That is why, for the national energy saving fund, we have said that there really must be a part of it. That is where the real effect on employment lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u186	The other part of my question was about the letter we received from the Economic and Social Committee on a committee of assurance. The Economic and Social Committee points out that the feasibility of the employment target cannot yet be adequately assessed. If we do not have that clear until the review in 2016, then we are already a long way away. The CDA attaches great importance to this employment. That is one of the reasons why we initially reacted positively to the ESC energy agreement. If that is moved forward now, then I do not have a concrete picture of what that really is going to bring us, precisely because we are putting so much Community money into it. Perhaps the Minister for Housing and Rijksdienst can explain this now, so that we do not hear about it until 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u187	2016 is next year. Some of the energy agreement measures are not yet in force. I mentioned the contribution of Bouwend Nederland and the installation industry: the energy performance guarantee. I cannot evaluate an agreement, part of which is not yet in operation. Again, I also have ambition and am impatient, but the energy agreement was concluded over a year ago. The parts that I had to perform myself, often with the cooperation of others, were carried out as quickly as possible. But on some parts, not everything is in the air yet. I can't evaluate the whole energy agreement by then, can I? It wasn't even the deal. I think it makes sense that it was agreed to do so in 2016. It is also virtually impossible to start evaluating an agreement that has not yet been drawn up in all its parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u188	The Minister says that if you've made agreements, you're not going to change any of those agreements. But let's say that for example, the two of you agree that one of you gets the groceries and the other one does the laundry, and then one gets a flat tire. Wouldn't it be more convenient to do something about it? I'd like to see such a flexible attitude in the cabinet. There is much more to be gained from the isolation of the existing housing stock. All kinds of things change. As far as the Party for Animals is concerned, it has already been shown that there is a need. But now gas extraction in Groningen is also causing serious problems. Does this cabinet say literally: it doesn't matter to us all; we don't feel like adjusting our ambitions upwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u189	I'm just thinking about the flat tire and the washing machine. The problems in Groningen are great. Mr Kamp is literally working on this day and night. That will undoubtedly be part of the debate in a moment. Just now, in the interrupting debate with Mrs Mulder, I indicated that a large part of the measures were introduced, namely the energy label, literally last week and, by the way, only in the first province. And some haven't been introduced yet, because the parties responsible for that part haven't finished, but I know they're busy working on it. You can see that everyone is of good will and is in the process of carrying out the agreements. It is not reasonable to say on this basis: the agreements of the energy agreement for the built environment are now, after a little over a year, being thrown over again. Actually, I find that unworkable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u190	I understand that in situations where there is no change in circumstances and there are no such major problems. But there are. We are having a discussion with the cabinet about whether the money is being spent efficiently. Do we have to subsidise this biomass supplement? There are problems in Groningen. Of course. A deal's a deal. But why doesn't this cabinet show that it is willing to increase ambitions and show more ambition if there is reason to do so, also in view of the employment effects? The cabinet has been on it for two years, and I think what it has to do is running loose. I would say: take a new job and make sure that in 2016 we do not have an evaluation of the situation with regard to the isolation of the existing housing stock, but that it is just settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u191	Objectives must be ambitious, but also realistic. You can't blame this cabinet for not being ambitious. In the field of energy saving, too, the energy agreement has really taken a huge step. That was a broad wish of the Chamber, and it is being worked hard on. But I find it really unreasonable for all the participants to say, after just over a year, that we are going to call that whole agreement into question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u192	I am very surprised at Minister Blok's input. No one is asking for the whole energy agreement to be called into question. Moreover, it was simply the agreement that the measures would be adjusted gradually. Moreover, it was also clear from the outset that there were insufficient energy savings measures in the original energy agreement. A quote: "The Parties also agree to regularly update progress and, if necessary, update measures to meet agreed objectives in this ESC Committee." For energy saving in the built environment, it was already clear at the beginning that it was totally inadequate. Then it makes sense that as a Chamber we immediately ask what is going on. It even states that the ongoing analysis of strategic research carried out by PBL, ECN and so on will be used. Now we have such a nice analysis of ECN and of PBL, the National Energy Exploratory, and it says: "The goal of the Energy Agreement of 100 petajoule extra savings by 2020 is not achieved in both policy variants with the now known measures." This underlines once again that the energy agreement contains a number of measures which are a good basis, but which are totally inadequate. So it makes sense to ask: what else will come? The Minister says that the parties are doing well, but my question to the Minister is: do we get that 100 petajoule with the things the parties are doing and if not, what will he come up with?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u193	The ambition to achieve this is unabated. I have no reason to accept it, but I do not think that I should be able to answer that question in full. It's too early for that. I note that not all parts of the energy agreement have yet been implemented, so it is not logical to expect that everything is already in full swing. That is why not only the parts that Mrs Van Veldhoven is quoting are agreed, but it has also been agreed that an evaluation will take place in 2016. That's a logical moment to take stock.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u194	This is just extremely weak. I can't say otherwise. This Minister is responsible for this part of the energy agreement. He says he has no reason to believe that other parties will not achieve what he is responsible for. That was not the question I asked this minister. He's responsible for it. Of course, we have made agreements with social parties and have indicated that they will implement them. I do not want to hear from the Minister that he has no reason to accept anything, no, I want to hear from the Minister that he knows that these parties make an important contribution to the objective and that they do not do enough, and that he is therefore taking additional measures. Is the Minister in charge of the objectives? How much are the additional measures going to yield and what else will he do himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u195	All parties to the energy agreement are making their share. I've indicated which parts I've delivered. I have also indicated that, for example, the part of the energy performance guarantee has not yet been delivered and that this is really crucial. All those millions of homeowners who get that energy label want to know. If I invest $5,000 in my house, how much time do I make it back? That is also an essential element. I know it's being worked on, it's slower than I'd hoped, but as long as I don't know how it's been completed, I can't evaluate the overall energy agreement, including those agreements. It's not reasonable for me to come up with extra things, is it? Then I'm behind the organizations involved and say, "Come on, everybody delivers their share of the deal."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u196	But Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u197	Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, We're gonna listen to Mrs. Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u198	Same thing. In fact, the majority of the Chamber has stated that it not only wants the existing energy agreement as it has been concluded to be implemented, but also "calls on the government to step up its efforts to save energy and to take concrete and specific measures to achieve the objectives." On 18 September 2014, the Chamber in its right mind asked, well after the conclusion of the energy agreement, to change its mind. The majority has said that we have to. My colleagues have just asked how this minister is doing and the Minister is actually saying: wait calmly, it will be fine, we will see that in 2016. Doesn't this minister just side with Chamberroom statements?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u199	The instruments that I myself am going to deal with, for example the National Energy Saving Fund, I am going to go into the questions that Mr Vos has asked about them in a moment, and they will be adapted as to what is to be done. There was cause for this, and I'll tell you how that happens in no time. I will keep my finger on the wrist and make changes if necessary. We are also setting up an energy savings fund for owners' associations, also an important part of the purchasing sector. That includes apartments where you have to do the energy saving in common. That is a very complicated area, but I have great hope that it will succeed. It's not a matter of sitting still, it's a matter of working very hard. This is a different question than to take additional measures now, in anticipation of the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u200	I recognize that from the Homeowners' Association. I live in such a complex and we still don't have solar panels on it to my grave.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u201	Mrs Van Tongeren has more influence on that than I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u202	Maybe you could stop by on Saturday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u203	Maybe we can do it together. When the Minister comes by, I think it has a bit more influence on the 127 fellow apartment owners. My question was whether the Minister is implementing and implementing the Van Ojik motion of 18 September 2014. Or does the Minister dismiss the motion as being motivated? I have not yet heard an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u204	I have said that in the areas where I go directly, such as the Energy Savings Fund for the Owners' Association, I am working on additional measures and improvements on parts. So I'm actually running the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u205	I hope the Minister will be able to give a more precise answer so that we can go to dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u206	Mrs Mulder asked me about the role of energy suppliers in relation to energy savings loans. There is probably the idea behind this that a possible loan for energy saving could be repaid from a saving on the energy account. We are talking about this extensively with energy suppliers, the AFM and the Ministry of Finance, because this is a complicated way of financing. One of the lessons of the credit crisis is that you want to finance responsibly. A number of energy companies are interested in starting a pilot. It's kind of exciting to do it this way. However, it is not yet possible to put it into practice. I have good hope to be able to provide further information on it this spring. Mr Leegte asked how we would ensure that in the new building of houses energy ambitions remain sharp and that the latest technology was used. For new construction we use an energy performance coefficient. It has been tightened from 0.6 to 0.4 as of 1 January 2015. That's a hell of a tightening up. From the construction world there were concerns as to whether this would be paid by the consumer, because this is not yet fully recovered from energy saving in the current state of technology. The Chamber called for this tightening up by way of motion, and I responded to that call. I hope that technological development will increase the cost-effectiveness of this tightening up. In the longer term, it will be almost energy neutral in 2020, both for residential and utility buildings. This is already the case for government buildings in 2018. As I outlined in the letter to the Chamber, I am working with the sector, both with builders and with users, on how we are going to develop the concept of 'almost energy neutral' and how we will achieve it by 2020. Mr Vos asked what steps I took, including the motion he tabled with Mrs Van Tongeren, to further develop the National Energy Savings Fund in order to increase its use. I have recently spoken to the board of the National Energy Savings Fund and looked at a number of concrete possibilities. As of 1 January 2015, we were able to reduce interest rates and cancel the closing commission. Mr Vos mentioned an effective interest rate of 4.4%. Since 1 January 2015, this is 3.4% for loans up to €5,000 and 3.8% for loans up to €10,000. The reduction is combined with the expiry of the closing commission. In addition, we are simplifying the application procedure, in which Mr Vos himself was stuck. The National Energy Savings Fund is also in consultation with energy companies to see if their loans can be linked to the energy bill in terms of redemption. The first steps have been taken and we are examining whether further steps can be taken. With this I hope to have answered the questions I have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u207	In my contribution, I proposed that new buildings should no longer be connected to the gas grid. The Minister just said that new buildings are supposed to be energy neutral from 2020. If we have to get rid of fossil energy and have as much fossil-free economy as possible by 2050, we shouldn't be connecting new buildings to the fossil gas grid, should we?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u208	I'll make a factual correction first. The 2020 target is "almost energy neutral'. At the moment there is a discussion in the building world about whether or not to connect homes to the gas grid. Sustainable gas, such as biogas, is also being explored. You should bear in mind that it is not impossible for us to have another Elfstedenwinter. I imagine it would be very uncomfortable if houses didn't have a gas connection at all. To announce this now very conductive from The Hague, I find the current state of the art a little too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u209	There are a lot of houses in the Netherlands without gas connection. I live in a house like this. I do not think that we in Amsterdam will starve to death if there is a cold winter. I think that's a strange reaction from the Minister who I'm not very good at. Governing is forward-looking. We're in the middle of a transition to make sure we get an infrastructure that fits into an economy where we don't rely on fossil fuels. Then it would make sense for you to bet on, or at least explore how to get to a housing stock that doesn't depend on fossil energy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u210	I certainly do not wish the Amsterdammers to die of hunger, nor do I wish them to suffer in an Elfstedenwinter cold. However, on the basis of the previous debate, I suspect that Mrs Van Tongeren is talking about an apartment, and an apartment has a very different energy consumption than, for example, a new farmhouse full of east winds. To centrally announce that such a building should not be connected to a gas pipeline, I think the current state of the art goes too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u211	I'm gonna keep going at this point. I also know neighbourhoods in the Netherlands where homes are not connected to the gas pipeline. Perhaps the Minister could take stock of the experience of these different neighbourhoods, including the shortcomings that might be present. He can then share these experiences with the House of Representatives to look at the request made by GroenLinks. Given the situation in Groningen, any way to reduce gas consumption is very welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u212	As Mrs Mulder puts it, I agree: gain and share experiences. This is done, for example, in the framework of the Energy Jump project. The discussion I just mentioned, that some participants do want a gas pipeline and others do not, plays within the framework of Energy Jump. I really think that's a fantastic project. Builders go together with housing corporations to find ways in which that can be realized, but I think we really need to leave a little room in that and share experiences. After all, it is still, to some extent, uncharted territory. Sharing experiences, I'd like to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u213	I would like to thank the Minister for his efforts to set up the National Energy Savings Fund more effectively and in a more market-oriented manner. I also congratulate him on that. I hope that we will continue to see this in the future. Because the interest rate has dropped a little bit, I can make a similar plea, but I won't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u214	I suspect I can estimate where Mr. Vos is about to go. In an earlier debate with Mr Vos, I also pointed out that it is cheaper for people to finance it from the mortgage, for which I have offered extra space. This is in fact a consumer loan, but I understand that the direction should be down.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u215	Can Minister Blok indicate whether the cost of setting up a heat grid is a brake on the construction of new homes without a gas pipeline? People might think it's very difficult to get the business case around for a heat grid. Does that still play a role? Is there a bottleneck there? Next Thursday we have an AO about housing and energy saving. Could the Minister give us the latest state of play regarding the use of all the measures taken under his responsibility in the context of the Energy Agreement? Can he indicate how much use has been made of it so far, so that we have a current position during the AO?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u216	I'd be happy to give you that update. The profitability of a heat grid is of course very locational. It depends on where in the neighborhood there is a source of heat and on what type of residential area is being built. It is difficult to give a different answer than these general notions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u217	It is precisely because it is difficult to assess in a general sense that I ask the Minister to give us an insight into what the practical experience is now. That doesn't have to be today, but it's useful to get a little more insight into that. Other networks we finance public, but heat networks are often private and they have to be managed within a business case. You might wonder if that's real. Nobody wants gas, for example, but we all want heat or the possibility to cook or turn on the light. I would therefore like to discuss this from a practical point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u218	Yeah, I'd love to. I understand the question in such a way that I gather the experience of existing plans for heat grids and share with the Chamber the lessons that this leads to. I'll do that, but I can't do that for the general discussion on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u219	I thank the Minister for Living and National Service and wish him a pleasant evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u220	I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs for the Government's reply in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u221	Mr. Chairman. The Rutte/Asscher cabinet supported by the House of Representatives strives for a fully sustainable energy economy in the year 2050. That's what I do with it. That is what we want to achieve in an international context. This fully sustainable energy system must also be reliable and affordable. I was able to assure myself during the first term of this debate by the Chamber that there is still broad support for this transition in the House of Representatives. There is still broad support for the objectives that have been agreed internationally and which we have also agreed nationally. I have noted that there has been no departure from the energy agreement, which we have concluded in order to support our efforts to achieve a fully sustainable energy system. We have that target for 2020 and 2023. In the European framework, we have already agreed targets for 2030. So we're really on the international road together to make that transition. This is done by the 28 countries of the European countries, but also much wider in the world. The importance of the energy agreement is as clear to me as it was when we began to negotiate it. A transition to renewable energy cannot be agreed with 17 million Dutch people or 1.5 million companies and entrepreneurs. I can't. You need organizations to talk to. They are happy in our country, where much is well organized. Various organisations have spoken with the cabinet about the transition to renewable energy. These were organisations of energy producers, consumers, workers and employers, but also environmental organisations and nature organisations. We have seen with them that the ambition set out in the coalition agreement was an ambition that was widely supported, including in society. We have been able to agree with all interested parties on how we could achieve the 2020 and 2023 targets. These agreements have been concluded after intensive negotiations with good will in all kinds of groups for a very long time. We've been listening to each other from all sides. The arguments have been weighed. It has been examined at what points one could agree on. If one could not agree on a particular point, it was considered whether one could perhaps agree on it if one combined it with something else. This led to an overall package being agreed, which was then dealt with by this Chamber. Apart from the support of the cabinet, it has received the support of the Chamber. In fact, I think that goes without saying, because if you are as ambitious as we are to make the transition to a sustainable energy economy at a rapid rate, we are really moving at a high rate, and you should be happy with the support you can get in society as well. We are talking about 14% of renewable energy by 2020. We are talking about all the energy used by cars, which almost all still run on fossil energy. We are also talking about everything that is happening in industry. For example, it is our ambition that 35% of electricity production will be sustainable by 2020. The energy agreement is therefore a well-balanced package in which all kinds of things have been well expressed and linked and, ultimately, agreements have been made with giving and taking. I very much need that energy agreement, just as I need the government agreement to achieve the objectives on which we have made political agreements for 2020 and, after the energy agreement, also for 2023. I am referring to the 14% and 16% targets. So I cannot take on board things that are pulling pieces out of the energy agreement and questioning that agreement, or things that lead to me not being able to achieve these objectives. I have to make sure we meet the targets. It is then important that the energy agreement should be maintained, which is my motivation in this dossier. I think the Chamber will have tasted this in the meantime in the many discussions I have had with her on this subject. I shall then turn to all the points raised by the spokesmen. Maybe I can get some specific points out of it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u222	I have one question. The introduction is very appealing to me, but I would like to hear from the Minister what he means by'pulling pieces out'. If the results of the evaluation are there later, we can see what might be even more successful than we had imagined, but there will of course also be parts which consist of ten pillars that consist of all kinds of things that run less fantastic. If we think it should be redesigned, does the Minister think it should be "pull out pieces"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u223	Yes. We have chosen a moment of evaluation on two occasions. This is stated both in the coalition agreement and in the energy agreement. That review is in the year 2016. Then we will see whether things have not worked out and whether we are perhaps not on the right path. If that is the case, we are going to take measures to ensure that we are on the right track and that we are able to achieve the objective by 2020. That's what we agreed on. In anticipation of that evaluation, I am not going to do things that have been negotiated and discussed, that have been carefully thought about and that have been associated with other things. One is important to one and the other is important to the other. I'm not gonna mess around in that, because at worst I'm gonna put the whole energy agreement on the slide and at best I'm gonna slow things down. Slowing down does not correspond to the objectives I want to achieve: 14% of renewable energy by 2020 and 16% of renewable energy by 2023.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u224	That is a laudable endeavour, but the nature of the energy transition is that we will have to act quite a lot on things. A certain flexibility is inherent in the process. I do not want to say that we want to take one out of the ten pillars, but some of these assumptions will prove to be less satisfactory than we thought. There will also be assumptions that have been too modest. In this sense, I ask the Minister to have an institution throughout the process in which there is room for action.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u225	I have seen the negotiations on the energy agreement from the beginning. I know how difficult these have often been because of very different interests of various parties. Consumers look at things other than employees. Employers' organisations look at other things than nature and environmental organisations. Energy companies are often in a financially difficult situation and also have very strong interests. I've noticed how difficult these negotiations have been. Nevertheless, we have managed to reach agreement with everyone on the whole package of the energy agreement. That is very valuable to me; I do not want to let that go. If I let that go, it'll slip through my fingers. I do want to be flexible, but I am showing this flexibility when the evaluation shows that certain things need to change in order to achieve the objectives by 2020 or in 2023. I'm not gonna break the deal for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u226	The Minister takes an advance on the second term, I'd almost say, but let's not go that far. The Minister says he's going to implement the entire energy agreement. That's his responsibility, too. I assume, therefore, that he is carrying out the part that I have already told Minister Blok that the parties have agreed with the Economic and Social Committee on ensuring the energy agreement on a regular basis to update progress and, if necessary, adjust the measures to meet the agreed objectives; the work will use the ongoing analyses of the Plan Bureau for the Environment. This does not just refer to the review in 2016. In addition, it was agreed that this was already clear when the energy agreement was laid down that a number of measures still needed to be worked out. I assume that Minister Kamp says that he is also fulfilling his commitments on these points, namely to supplement the measures for which it was clear from the outset that they were insufficient and that they will continue to follow those measures and ensure the success of the Energy Agreement. This is separate from the review in 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u227	I know exactly what the bail board stands for. I have seen it from the beginning and I know how it was put together. I myself approached the President for this. So I know exactly what's going on with this bail-out committee. The purpose of the committee is to discuss the implementation problems encountered in the work and to find solutions to them within the terms of the energy agreement. But then it is an effect, a detailing of what you have agreed with each other. I am interested in the fact that the agreements we have made, and the energy agreement contains a large package of agreements, stand as a house. I wish to keep those appointments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u228	It would be even better if the Minister did not know exactly what the bailout committee stood for! Part of the agreement on the Committee on Safeguards is that we would ensure that we could also achieve the objectives which were clear at the start of the Energy Agreement that there were insufficient measures to be taken in 2016. What kind of evaluation are we going to do in 2016? Have we met the energy saving targets? No, because we knew from the beginning that there were not enough measures underneath. That is not fair to the parties working hard on the energy agreement, is it? Then we must also say to each other that we sign enough measures to get that 100 petajoule. My question to the Minister is thus as follows. I assume that he is going to implement the whole energy agreement on that point and that he is taking constructive suggestions to get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u229	I do not need to get the 100 petajoules that Mrs Van Veldhoven is talking about next year. A growth path has been agreed for it. That growth path means I must have reached 35 petajoules by the end of next year. I'm working on making sure I get that. We'll see at the evaluation whether we can do that or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u230	I'm going on at the same point. I am a little surprised that social partners seem to be able to give more substance to an energy agreement that is clearly not finished. Not all the measures are there and they do not add up to the agreements that are in it, but that in the Chamber it is simply said that it is what it is. I already told that Minister Blok. I have found four motions which have received a majority in the Chamber and which the Minister more or less says he is not carrying them out. I would like the Minister to clarify this first. Does it even make sense to debate this issue with the Minister? I'm sure the Minister knows which motions I'm referring to. One belongs to Van Ojik and another belongs to my colleague from the Christian Union and myself. Of these motions, which aim to improve the implementation of the energy agreement, the Minister says more or less that he is not implementing them. Mrs Van Veldhoven has already mentioned this: how can we get together on something that is acceptable, if the Minister says in advance that he does not want to change anything from now on and that he is waiting for the review in 2016?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u231	What I am saying is that I think it is of the utmost importance that we have an energy agreement, that this energy agreement allows and supports the transition to renewable energy and that it is in line with the ambitions of the government agreement. I want to achieve the ambitions of the coalition agreement and meet the objectives of the coalition agreement. I also want to keep the agreements made in the energy agreement. Those are the things that are beyond me. If the Chamber scrambles on parts of it, she doesn't have me by her side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u232	Mrs. Thick.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u233	No, Mr. Chairman, I'm allowed a second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u234	My apologies, Mrs. Van Tongeren, go ahead. It was also a very long question, so I was a little confused.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u235	Sorry, Chairman. It was a long question. I'll try harder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u236	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u237	So the Minister is actually saying that he is not already carrying out all the motions that have the support of a majority in the Chamber, which he calls morrling - I call it improving - suggestions for the energy agreement. There are two of which the Minister has already written to the Chamber that it is nice that we have adopted them by majority, but that he is not doing anything with them. Isn't that a strange way of dealing with a benevolent chamber? I'd rather go further than the energy agreement. I would like to support the Minister in that. Colleagues also want to do so and try to propose improvement solutions, which will then be adopted by the Chamber. Then the Minister says, "Yes, but I'm not gonna do that."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u238	I think this is rather a curious attitude from Mrs Van Tongeren towards me. I am the one who is working with conviction on the transition to renewable energy, which has been involved from the outset in both the coalition agreement and the energy agreement, and which makes it clear every time that we want to meet the objectives and commitments. That's what I'm saying. I believe that Mrs Van Tongeren also supports this transition to renewable energy, so we could actually be on the same page in that regard. What is Mrs Van Tongeren doing now? It translates my words in such a way that I would reject any suggestion relating to the energy agreement in advance. Why would we create that artificial contradiction? I have said that in so far as the Court's statements imply that the objectives of the coalition agreement or the agreements of the energy agreement are being complied with, the Chamber does not find me on its side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u239	We're talking about the energy agreement tonight. The Minister has said warm words about this. My question to him is precisely where is his fear or reluctance to continue to think about and work on the energy agreement. We've now seen the National Energy Exploratory. It clearly states that if we continue on this path, we will not achieve the objectives. Mrs van Veldhoven already quoted a number of agreements where it has been said that we are not waiting for the evaluation, but we are going to work on it in the interim and adjust it if necessary. I think the Minister's reaction is very cautious. Where did that come from? What's it in?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u240	Mrs Dik-Faber's statement is not correct. She says that the National Energy Exploratory shows that we are not achieving the objectives. However, the National Energy Exploratory states that, based on the policy laid down in laws on 1 May 2014, we can achieve 12.4% by 2020 and 16% by 2023. But we did not stop after May 1, 2014, when it came to what was in the law at the time. We just moved on. I have spoken to the Chamber about the precise interpretation of wind at sea. I have also received broad support for this. I joined the Chamber as part of the agreement we reached with the provinces. In the meantime, eleven of the twelve provinces in their provincial structure have defined our "wind on land" agreements. Since then, a lot has happened. That is why my position is that this 14% can be achieved by the year 2020. I have also supported that statement in the documents I have sent to the Chamber. We've already talked about the 16%. This is also possible according to the National Energy Exploratory. That is the response to Mrs Dik-Faber's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u241	I've heard the Minister use words like "morrelling" a few times. Those words have a very negative sound for me. I see that steps are being taken from the Chamber and from civil society to achieve the objectives of the energy agreement and to improve the energy agreement. For example, in terms of energy saving, we know very clearly that we are not achieving the objective if we continue on the route we have agreed on. There are proposals to get to work on this. Why don't we do that together? Why are we sticking our heads in the sand and waiting for the evaluation in 2016? I think it's a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u242	I'm not gonna stick my head in the sand at any time, on the contrary. Mrs Dik-Faber mentioned the word "morrelling." There are things in the energy agreement that the parties are happy about. There are also things that parties are not happy with. If we are to say something here about coal taxation which is different from what was at the basis of the energy agreement, it is of the utmost importance for certain parties. Then they say, "We got something there and we accepted something, but now it's being taken away." Then I'll use the word "morrelle" with permission. Another example is the sustainability criteria. This is of the utmost importance for the nature and environmental movement. Others think differently, but the sustainability criteria for biomass have come into play. These sustainability criteria are the most progressive in the world, with the best possible control system. If you are going to change something about that, it is of the utmost importance for nature and environmental organisations. The whole energy agreement has been thoroughly negotiated. All kinds of components have been associated. We should be pleased that the overall package is carried by everyone. I want to keep that up. Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna get a few things out of it. Maybe I can start with the biomass. It has been agreed that co- and majority biomass is allowed up to a maximum of 25 petajoules. I do not discuss with the Chamber every time what is or is not renewable energy. I myself can tell a nice story about why I think nuclear energy is renewable, but that is not in what has been agreed at European level. The directive, which also applies to the Netherlands, does not regard nuclear energy as sustainable. Some Members of the House do not consider biomass to be sustainable, but it is in the European directive. This European directive has been the basis for Dutch legislation, for agreements in the coalition agreement and for agreements in the energy agreement. I simply have to do with the facts: what is in the directive, what is in the energy agreement, what is in the coal agreement? It states that there is a maximum of 25 petajoule and mostly biomass and that sustainability criteria need to be developed. We have seen an impressive agreement on these sustainability criteria between the companies involved, the nature and environmental organisations and the government. We have agreed on the criteria. I have already said that the sustainability criteria agreed in the Netherlands are the most progressive in the world. It has also been agreed that the cabinet was involved that the sustainability criteria should be assessed in the best possible way. This means that you are not just looking at what is happening in the immediate vicinity of a particular sawmill or a particular pellet mill in Canada or America, but at what is being done in a larger area with the forests, the so-called area testing. That is the starting point for the review. Those two things, namely that they have agreed on the criteria and that they have agreed on the best possible review of them, are very good. They have also found together that at present there are not enough forests to meet the sustainability criteria for land use testing. So the situation is not yet such that you can apply that area test to all forests. That is why it has been said: 'Then we are going to apply the area testing to the plots larger than 1,000 hectares of forest. The plots that are less than 1,000 hectares of forest are also tested, but we do so in a less ideal way, namely the regional or the "pellet mill" test. In the beginning, we are going to use these for areas less than 1,000 hectares, but we are going to keep raising that limit to a certain point." They just didn't agree on that particular moment. I can let that go, or I can try to get it to lead to something. I have seen that a professional chairman has been set up, who has tried to bring the two parties, the companies and the nature and environmental organisations together on this point. That was really hard work, but it didn't work out. The Chairman of the Committee on Security and Cooperation then made a commitment to this. That didn't work either. Eventually, I had it tried again myself in one last attempt. That didn't work either. I can leave it at that, but I can also make sure that we hold on to everything we have already achieved, that we complete this and that we give it clarity so that the companies know what they have to keep, that they can prepare for investment and that they can apply it later. We must also realise that the fact that we want to do so does not mean that the whole world is immediately in the position to carry it out. Because what we are doing is not the first product of these forests. The first product is something else. That is not what these criteria are for. So we are going to set criteria for a by-product for the whole forest. We're gonna have to figure that out. So we still have to do what we can to ensure that all this becomes reality in practice. That is why I said that, after a number of bodies failed to reach an agreement on this last point, I have to make a decision, and so the sustainability of all forests at area level has to be demonstrated from 1 January 2024. This means that the first contracts concluded at the end of the contract are subject to full area testing. I think this is a very sensible decision, which is entirely in line with the energy agreement. If I were to receive the support of the Chamber, the energy agreement would remain on this important part and the Netherlands could also play a leading role in the world. That would not be a bad thing for the forests in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u243	I understand that no agreement has been reached on the deadline for this. There would also be no agreement on the control of certification methods. Would the Minister like to say something more about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u244	That control is about whether you control it at area level or at regional level. The parties have agreed that the best control, the most appropriate control, is at area level. It's been agreed that's how it's gonna be done. Then there is the question of when. It can't be done immediately, because there aren't any of those woods. There's still a lot to be done to get this done. Until then, we are going to test, but in the second best way, namely regional evaluation at 'pellet mill' level. That's very serious, too. Once again, we want the best test method to be applied from 1 January 2024. Then we have really completed the matter in a very progressive way in the spirit of the coalition agreement and the energy agreement. That is the state of play on biomass.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u245	I would like to hear the Minister's assessment of the Academy's study. The Academy has carried out an intensive study of all existing reports and concludes that biomass also produces no or little climate gain, but many problems. Doesn't that change the minister's position? Does he not want to rethink the question of whether it is desirable at all to rekindle biomass?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u246	Other use of biomass is possible, for example via a cascading system. The chemical industry is in the process of developing all kinds of things. That's what I want. I don't choose one or the other. With my statement that I am dealing with biomass as agreed in the Energy Agreement, I am not saying that the other should not happen. It can be done in a very responsible way. The parties concerned have almost completely agreed. As far as the biobased economy, the green economy, is concerned, we are busy taking steps forward with this cascading, with that other use of biomass, including in the chemical industry. I am as motivated as I am on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u247	In fact, I hear the Minister say that the insights that the Academy has re-presented to us do not have any significance in the plans that have now been made in the energy agreement. It is still a matter of getting to the point of certification and control, but nothing changes about our fundamental view of biomass.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u248	We are engaged in politics, we are in the running of the country, we need to make sure that we get things done. We have a very great ambition to completely reverse the current use of 95% fossil and 5% renewable energy until 2050. In the meantime, we want to take concrete steps. If we want to achieve this, we need to find handles and have building blocks to make it happen in practice. We have the building block of agreements made at UN level. We have the building block of European directives. There's a coalition agreement. There's an energy agreement. All these handles, all these building blocks, I need to achieve the goal we have set.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u249	My analysis of the whole development and the negotiations on this biomass supplement is that we find it difficult to find out with parties such as Greenpeace, who are fundamentally unscientific and always leak out of confidential agreements, who come up with briefings on matters on which the agreement has been made to keep them confidential.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u250	Mr Veegte, it is not so neat to treat people or organisations with words like this, when they are not here to defend themselves. To your comments on Greenpeace, you can at least add that it is about your opinion about that organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u251	That's what I started. This is my observation, this is my analysis. I see letters from Greenpeace before the official position has been reached. That sounds to me like the organization is unreliable. Let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u252	That is the interpretation of your words. I'm trying to pick them a little more carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u253	Exactly. Now that this has been noted, I think there is a great opportunity. What is also striking in the negotiations on biomass reform is that the chemical industry and the producers are not at the table, while these people have an important role to play. Does the Minister also think that these two parties should be involved in the biomass reform negotiations so that we can better respond to the concerns expressed by the Academy in its letter to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u254	No. Almost 50 parties have been involved in the energy agreement. Those parties and the Committee on Safeguards considered which parties had to negotiate with each other in order to agree on the sustainability criteria. Those parties, which are part of all parties involved in the energy agreement, have negotiated with each other. This has come out and is supported by both sides. I can say that there are other parties or that in business as a whole you could have distinguished and brought in the chemical industry as a separate branch, but that did not happen. Anyway, let's count our blessings.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u255	First of all, I would like to return to the way in which Mr Veegte addressed certain organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u256	You were very clear in your body language. I've said something. I don't think it's okay to argue with each other here. Mr Leegte has made his point. I think it would be wise for you to put a question to the Minister now. You can ask him the question you have to Mr Veegte in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u257	I was just about to thank you for bringing this up. My question to the Minister is about a brief remark he made, which I was very pleased with. He said that he also thinks the cascading is very important. On the one hand, we have a challenge for renewable energy; biomass co-incineration is part of this, according to the energy agreement. On the other hand, the chemical sector has a desire to do cascading, and you always have a residual product. How could we detach this whole chain by using part of the money available for biomass? This could result in a huge win-win situation, for example by providing a subsidy in the SDE+ for the surplus biomass, which remains after all valuable raw materials have been removed, which is large enough to ensure that it succeeds and is also profitable. Is the Minister prepared to look with the chemical sector, which would like to think about this and who would like to invest in innovation, to see if there is a way out of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u258	The SDE+ is not a toy of mine. It has a legal basis. It says what I can use the SDE+ for. I can't just use the money for renewable energy for cascading in the chemical industry. However, in addition to this important debate tonight, we also have debates on bio-based economy and green economy. Then this is all playing. We are working very intensively on this in our contacts with the chemical industry. We are looking at what needs to be done to take the necessary steps forward on this issue, but I do not think it is appropriate to link this up tonight. One thing doesn't get in the way of the other. Both things are just as nice to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u259	One might be in the way if we deal with it carelessly. Every year we establish the legal basis of this money. This means that until the autumn, in which we re-establish the SDE+ scheme, we now have time to think about it. Then we will re-determine what form of renewable energy we want to grant. It's coming up. D66 supports that system. We want to focus on the cheapest means, but we also want to see what we can do afterwards. It would be a good thing for me if the Minister with this sector wanted to see what win-win situations this could bring.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u260	Mrs Van Veldhoven was just talking about a subtlety of mine; I would like to comment on a subtlety of Mrs Van Veldhoven. She said 'if we deal with this carelessly', but we do not deal with this carelessly at all. We implement the agreements of the Energy Agreement in letter and spirit. We are going to set the most progressive sustainability criteria and we are going to let go of the best testing systems. We have seen that more than 90% of the agreement has already been reached between the various parties, industry, nature and environmental organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u261	The Minister says I deal with something careless. That's what I'm curious about anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u262	Yeah, but then he rejected it. He said why he had that view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u263	I think that wasn't about the point we were just talking about, but about a loose question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u264	I was talking about it, Madam President, because Mrs Van Veldhoven mentioned 'if we deal with it carelessly'. However, we do not deal with it carelessly, I say to her. We're handling that biomass very carefully. On the points raised by Mrs Van Veldhoven, such as biobased economy, cascading and using biomass in the chemical industry, we have no difference of opinion. This also applies to the preference expressed by Mrs Van Veldhoven when she says: I actually like this much more than what we do with that side-step. What happens in the chemical industry with that cascading, I find high-quality applications. That deserves my attention and gets my attention in all the ways I can give it. However, that does not prevent me from carrying out the agreement contained in the energy agreement and doing so in the most careful way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u265	I would like to return to the sustainability criteria that are being established. Is it not now the conclusion that we will not meet the sustainability criteria agreed in the energy agreement until 2024? Does this not give energy companies the opportunity to purchase uncertified biomass until 2024, provided they obtain it from smaller plots?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u266	No. The answer is no, but I will say a little more about it, almost out of courtesy to Mrs Dik-Faber. These sustainability criteria have already been established. By the way, Mrs Dik-Faber spoke, I believe, about the sustainability criteria that apply to other wood and she asked why one type of wood is subject to sustainability criteria different from the other type. The sustainability criteria established for regular timber have served as an example for these sustainability criteria. So they're very similar. The other wood is also wood of the first choice. So it's wood that really gets the trees cut down for. However, we are now talking about the wood that remains in the woods, that is to say, some kind of residual wood that is still being used. So we have achieved the best we can at this point. The sustainability criteria of one species are in line with the sustainability criteria of the other species.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u267	Perhaps I have not made my question sufficiently clear. I'm just gonna try again. Certification at area or plot level is not possible at the moment. Apparently, we're gonna need until 2024 to get that done. Isn't it true that we won't be able to meet the sustainability criteria until 2024? And do we not give companies the opportunity to fail to meet the criteria until 2024? They can obtain less controlled biomass from smaller parcels.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u268	Mrs Dik-Faber's question was clear, but my answer was not. I appreciate the opportunity given to me by the President to restore that. The sustainability criteria that I have just outlined need to be applied from the outset. These criteria therefore apply from the very beginning. They also need to be tested. The best way to test that is that area testing, but the alternative way, namely regional assessment, is also very serious. That must be done from the start. If there is insufficient biomass that meets the sustainability criteria and can pass the test, then that biomass cannot be co-fired either. From the beginning these criteria apply and from the beginning they are tested in a serious way. But the very best way of testing is to test the area. It will be introduced 100 percent in the year 2024. That is the answer I would have liked to give to Mrs Dik-Faber's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u269	Mrs Van Veldhoven, I see that you want to ask another question. I hesitate to give you the floor again. On this same point about biomass, you have also quite extensively interrupted. I think there are still a lot of answers and a lot of questions have been asked. If we are going to block this now because of a lot of interruptions, we will be here until late. When I look at the minister like that, I don't know if he's gonna make it. If you insist now, Mrs Van Veldhoven, that is fine with me, but from now on I am going to allow up to four interruptions for the rest of this debate. It is up to the members to decide when to intervene. From now on, any spokesperson may intervene four more times during this debate. I give the floor to Mrs Van Veldhoven to ask her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u270	Thank you for that, Mr President, because this is one of the key points of this debate. I imagine it's hard to see if it's the same thing, but it's not quite that. I want to know very precisely to what extent and until when non-certified biomass can still be co-fired. In his letter, the Minister states that we have agreed on the best sustainability criteria in the world. But it also says: Dutch energy companies cannot force the producers of renewable biomass to sell to them, so it can happen that they cannot get it and then there is an ingrowth path. That ingrowth path runs until 2024. It's starting from 2020. Then the border goes to 800 hectares, in 2022 it is 500 hectares and in 2024 it applies to everything. Until then, however, producers can say: I simply cannot get to it; I use a smaller plot and therefore continue to co-incinerate unsustainable biomass. They can do that until 2024. Or should they be able to prove they can't get it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u271	No. Then I must repeat what I have just tried to say clearly to Mrs Dik-Faber. These sustainability criteria apply from the outset. That is something that needs to be tested. The very best test is area testing. That cannot be done at the moment, because there are not enough forests that can meet this area test. We hope that there will be sufficient forests to comply with the regional review. The same criteria are applied, only at a different level, i.e. at a level below 1000 hectares. This is also described in industry as "pellet mill" level testing. That review will then have to be carried out. If there is insufficient supply of forests tested at area level, i.e. more than 1000 hectares, and if there is insufficient supply of forests tested at regional level, which are therefore less than 1000 hectares, if there is insufficient supply that meets the sustainability criteria, then there can be no co-incineration and co-incineration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u272	Then the question that environmental organisations are asking themselves is: can you really make the sustainability criteria tough if you demonstrate sustainability at 'pellet mill' level? That question is still open.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u273	Not in the very best way. The best way is to test the area, but we cannot introduce it now. We have a growth path. This will apply 100% by 2024. That's where we're growing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u274	I have a bit of a problem with the Minister's institution when it comes to defending the energy agreement. Everything that is suggested here comes with the answer: no, I am not going to do that, because that energy agreement I have agreed with all partners. In formal terms, however, the Chamber has nothing to do with that. It's not a law or anything. If the Minister is not prepared to show some flexibility, why are we standing here? On the specific subject of biomass, my specific question is: in two years' time, you will have a real breakthrough in the field of solar energy, so on all the energy that does not go into photosynthesis but, for example, in artificial leaves. That's what they're doing in Wageningen. Cosun and AVB are trying very hard to make progress in this area. Are we going to fuck with the wood chippers in these coal plants until 2020?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u275	"Throwing" seems to me a slightly better word for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u276	How do you say that? Stick it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u277	Throw it. Stick it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u278	"Throw," yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u279	Mr Smaling says that the Minister of everything suggested by the Chamber says: I am not going to do that. I didn't say that at all. What I have said is that the Chamber and I want to achieve a transition to renewable energy in a certain period with very concrete intermediate steps. I said that this was agreed in the coalition agreement and the energy agreement and that there was also a European directive on this. I have said that I intend to make this a success and that I will look in the interim into how things stand and whether we can reach the agreement. And I said that if we don't, we're gonna change the measures to make sure we achieve our goals. In the meantime, a committee is active, which also does all kinds of things to support the whole process. That's my approach. It's not like I'm saying no to all the suggestions. I did say, however, that if the Chamber interfered with the objectives or the agreements, she would not find me on her side. It's my right to say that. Mr Smaling asks whether that means that if all kinds of fantastic things happen between now and 2020, we will not go into that further. I hope that all kinds of fantastic things will happen, because in 2020 we will only be at 14%. I'm supposed to be at almost 100% by 2050. So I still need a lot of innovation and innovation. The more there is, the better it is and the happier I am. But right now, I need everything that is over-sighted and applicable to ensure that by 2020 I can achieve the high 14% target set by us. I am in no way putting a brake on new things, new techniques and innovations. On the contrary, I need them all very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u280	I'm glad to hear that. However, I would like to ask the Minister to think in two speeds. The energy agreement has broad support here and we all want it to be a success. However, the larger story is an energy transition, which is not linear. At some points of that pillar we are in the start-up phase, in others perhaps in the exponential phase. We don't know how style the curve to that new system will eventually be. This requires flexibility, because you do not know in the coming years what good usefuls will appear on the horizon. I have the feeling that the Minister will stay in the piercing pool, while he will have to jump into the deep end of the next few years on the issues I mentioned, such as solar energy from photosynthesis and the like. They can play a major role and perhaps bring us above 14% or 16%.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u281	Am I going to stay in the paddling pool if I want 6,000 MW of wind on land by the year 2020? It'll have to run by then. So I'm gonna stay in the paddle bath? Do I stay in the paddling pool if I want to have three large locations with large wind farms at sea, which can make an important contribution in 2020 and in 2023? I'm definitely not staying in the paddle bath. I am in the process of committing EUR 3.5 billion or more every year to ensure that this transition to renewable energy is made a success. With all due respect to Mr Smaling, I find the remark that I remain in the paddling pool inappropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u282	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u283	May I comment on that for a moment? This doesn't seem right. What I mean is this: the energy agreement provides the Minister with solid ground and that is the metaphor of the paddling pool. But between now and 2020-2023 there will also have to be a deep jump, because there are things coming that we don't know yet that are useful. That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u284	I think we still have a lot to do to achieve the 16% target by 2023 after 2020. At the moment I see that there is still more wind at sea and more wind on land, more solar energy, even more geothermal heat and even more fermentation needed. If new techniques were to be developed which are affordable and can contribute to this, that would be great. If it can be better and cheaper, that is fine, but the goal is to achieve the objectives. Perhaps it would be a good idea to go into more detail about what Mr Vos has said about blue energy as a result of what Mr Smaling just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u285	Mr Vos, the Minister would like to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u286	With blue energy, Mr Vos referred to a technology as well as other spokesmen who spoke on this subject, using the difference in salt concentration between salt and fresh water for the production of renewable energy. Let us note that this technique is not applied anywhere in the world. Let us also note that no research is being carried out on this technique throughout the world. That is what we are doing in the Netherlands. At the end of last year we got a pilot installation in operation at the Afsluitdijk to try it and until 2017 we will gain experience with it. If that phase goes well until 2017, we will scale it up to a demonstration project and that will have to run in a period of about four years. If that goes well, then the next phase can be started. You can see we're the only ones in the world doing this investigation. We started with a project that lasts four years and then takes another four years. In the meantime, I can tell you that the cost of this blue energy is currently calculated at 58.5 cents per kilowatt hour, while the highest we pay in the SDE+ scheme is 15 cents. We realize many projects for a lot less, but the most expensive is 15 cents. So this is 58.5 cents. I think it's a wonderful research, and we should keep doing that. I hope it will be a success and I will contribute to it all I can. I am not just going to suggest that we can give up windmills for a while because the blue energy is eager to be applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u287	The Minister is right to point out that other spokesmen, including myself, were also talking about blue energy. One of the questions I asked was the following. The SDE+ contains a section that is used for long-term applications. Is the Minister prepared to invest a little more within the SDE+ scheme, which leads you to a different distribution of funds?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u288	We put a lot of effort into the innovation of energy. We do this through top sector energy, where EUR 170 million a year goes into it. That's huge support. In addition, the SDE+ funds have, but I have been given those resources for the transition to renewable energy. That's laid down in rules and I can't just play with them. However, if we are able to make future applications to generate renewable energy cheaper and sooner, then I can use some of those resources to do so. I do. If I see anything to save money within the meaning of the SDE+, I can do so. It's been approved by the Chamber. I do both things, so within the SDE+ and through the top sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u289	Does the Minister think that he has sufficient resources at his disposal to take the right steps for this type of high-tech innovations. I am thinking of tidal energy, which would also be very good for the Netherlands......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... After all, we have once again given up on each other. At some point, the question arises whether we need to invest further in land-based wind energy, which is already reasonably developed, or whether we need to invest more in such technologies in order to have new technologies ready in the future to meet the new ambitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u290	You have a lot of types of renewable energy generation. You also have a lot of supposed types of renewable energy generation. Those who are working on one particular variant will not be satisfied until they have unlimited money at their disposal. If you ask them, it's never enough. Blue energy is something that is not applied anywhere in the world. We are the only country in the world to carry out research and we have already installed a pilot plant on the Afsluitdijk. I think we are doing well on that point. I go to a point raised by Mr Void, but also by others. That's Friesland. Mr Leegte and others ask that no final decision be taken on wind on land in Friesland. I won't, but I'll outline the playing field. It's good to go over that with each other. Friesland has made the appointment with me as one of the twelve provinces to realize 530 megawatts of wind on land. All the provinces have agreed with me. Secondly, it was agreed that all this would be enshrined in a provincial structure vision as of 1 January 2015. That was done by eleven of the twelve provinces, but not by Friesland. Friesland has not yet completed the implementation. In the meantime, I have been working for two years on a state coordination procedure for the location that Friesland has designated for a wind farm over 100 megawatts and for which the Empire has to organise a land-based planning assessment. They have given a location in the IJsselmeer and I have included it in the structure vision Wind energy on land. I'm working on that right now. So I put the location designated by the province of Friesland into the state coordination scheme. Now I'm almost done with the procedure for the state coordination scheme. Now you can say that there are other places that are conceivable, a place that is not laid down in a provincial structure vision and which is also not laid down in the wind energy structure vision on land, but which you could also take. If you're gonna do that, you're gonna have to start all over again. If you do that through the state coordination scheme, the whole process with which I am now almost finished needs to be restarted, with a complete EIA procedure. It'll take at least two years. Before you can release an EIA procedure and a state coordination scheme at a location, you need to know exactly what that location is and what you want to say there. There is still a long way to go for this, and I believe that this is going to take another six months. That means you're going back to a two-and-a-half-year procedure, the outcome of which is, by definition, uncertain. If it is vague, there is not so much resistance, but as it becomes concrete, there will be more resistance. It's just a question of whether it's gonna come through eventually. I have taken a very good look at what has been discussed in Friesland and what views there are. I also know what the agreements I made in the coalition agreement and the energy agreement are and to which I have committed myself. I also know about the eleven other provinces in the Netherlands. I haven't finished the state coordination procedure yet. For the area within the structure vision Wind energy on land I am working out the different variants that are conceivable and I see what conclusion I have to draw from this. At the end of that process, I can make my decision. Then I will look at the whole thing, such as agreements that have been made, views that live in Friesland, the planning situation and everything I have done about the state coordination procedure. At the end of that procedure, I will make my decision. I can't foresee when that will be, but I certainly need a few more months to work out the variants I'm working on for the space within the wind energy on land structural vision further in detail. Once that has been done, I can make my final decision on the procedure. This is in response to what the spokesmen have said on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u291	I had understood that the Commission for the m.e.r. had already looked at this variant. We discussed this earlier in the Lower House with Minister Schultz of I and M. She indicated that it would be best to place mills along the Afsluitdijk. She herself had in mind to do this after 2020. However, we hear from the field that there would be opportunities for achieving the 2020 target. That's what the Minister of Economic Affairs is all about, isn't it? Do I understand from his words that he wants to look seriously at this option, if it is all possible by 2020?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u292	The location mentioned by Mrs Mulder is not covered by the wind energy on land structural vision. That means that I cannot decide to do so. If I would like to make that decision, I have to start all over again with the state coordination procedure and the m.e.r. procedure, and I have just said the necessary thing about it. I'm at the end of an ongoing procedure. I'm working on the final work I have to do for my final decision. When the final decision is made, I will oversee the entire battlefield. In addition to Friesland's view, I have also mentioned the agreements made in the Energy Agreement, the objectives of the coalition agreement to which I have committed myself and the findings I draw from the current procedure under the State Coordination Regulation. If I have that completely, after I've done my pre-work, I'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u293	To what extent does the Minister intend to treat this location positively and approach it as an option? After all, it seems to have been worn quite well in Friesland and of course the CDA attaches to that. I wonder how the Minister looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u294	I don't want to say any more about it than I just said. If you point to a location and work it all out and it gets very detailed at the end, resistance can occur. Then you point out another location that you think will be better. But if you've gone through the whole procedure and you're at the end, it's possible that you're gonna be resisted again and you're gonna have the same problem. There are a lot of aspects that you can talk about, but the way I said it before was carefully formulated. I would like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u295	The conclusion could also be that it didn't fly right from the start. These are major infrastructure projects, similar to the cutting of a landscape by a road. Look at Nijeveen, Nieuw Buinen, Exloermond, Stadskanaal-Musselkanaal: that's where I get windmills from. I was there last week. The resistance might not have been there if from the outset there had been talk of support, financial participation and disadvantage compensation with the residents, and the project had not been enforced through the Crisis and Recovery Act. Is it not worth something to the Minister to take the waste of time for granted and to make a profit in the sense that the residents in large numbers agree to the final choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u296	I was talking about Friesland. Mr. Smaling said "didn't fly well." I don't see what wouldn't have flown right. For the structural vision Wind energy on land, Friesland has itself submitted a certain location to the IJsselmeer. Then, according to the legal procedure, I have the state coordination scheme and the m.e.r. go through it, with everything we've arranged for participation and consultation. I think we've been at it the most careful way. As far as the other locations are concerned, Mr Smaling talks about Groningen and Drenthe. This is the subject of both land-based wind energy and the provincial structural visions established by Drenthe and Groningen. These are the starting points on which the plans need to be further completed. There is still a lot of consultation going on in this context, which I am also involved in.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u297	The Crisis and Recovery Act was designed to speed up infrastructure projects. The National Coordination Scheme has emerged from this. But was this necessary? Is it necessary in those places I mentioned, but also in the close community of Menterwolde, for example, to drive the people apart? On the one hand are the landowners and on the other hand the residents, while you could have organized it carefully at the bottom. Then you wouldn't have had "poles of offense" in the energy agreement. That's such a shame and so unnecessary. I'd say take your time! My question in the first term was also whether the Minister is prepared to appoint a mediator of a stature like that of Mr Winsemius in order to bring this to a satisfactory conclusion as kindly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u298	No. Nor is it the case that, if it had happened carefully, it would have had a different outcome. This has happened very carefully. For example, the location Groningen is a location proposed by Groningen. Then it was said by Groningen: yes, we did, but now we have another location. The Chamber has given room for this and that other location is then again planologically fit. At some point, you've gone through all the procedures, both at the state level and at the provincial level, and it has to come to a conclusion. That is also necessary if you have the ambition to make the transition to renewable energy. If you have set goals for this and if you have made agreements on this with each other, you need to be able to make a decision at some point. In Friesland, Groningen and Drenthe there has been a very careful procedure, in which the provinces were well listened to and, within the structure vision currently established at provincial level and at the state level, further detailed consultation takes place. I am prepared to play my part in this. For example, I will talk to Drenthe again shortly about the precise impact in that province. That consultation and decision-making have been careful for a long time. Until the end, it will remain that way. That was my introduction. I shall now turn to the points raised by the spokesmen. However, I have had the most important points on which the most discussion could possibly have been expected. Mrs Van Tongeren asked why the State does not participate financially in renewable energy projects, as is the case with fossil energy projects. Mrs van Tongeren, and it may also have been Mr Smaling, because there are similar words coming out of their mouths in the environmental and nature fields, also said that we would subsidise fossil energy on a large scale. I can tell the House that there is no euro subsidy for fossil energy in the Netherlands. There is only a subsidy for renewable energy. As regards financial participation in renewable energy projects, by analogy with gas production, Mrs Van Tongeren refers to the deployment of EBN. EBN is part of the gas building. I informed the Chamber over a year ago that I was going to look at the gas building, because I thought things had to change there. I have received an opinion on this. With regard to EBN, there will have to be a stronger direction by me from the Ministry. That's just necessary. Once I have settled that, I will see if the use of EBN in renewable energy projects can replace the insufficient availability of capital to realise those projects. I will also check whether risk participation by EBN leads to better or faster realisation of projects. If that is the case, these projects can be carried out with the involvement of EBN. This is also in line with a motion adopted by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u299	I think that is a good direction in itself. However, I would like to go back to saying that there is no euro subsidy money for fossil energy, for example small-field policy. The Minister knows the whole list, but this is an example. My question was more to think with. If you want an energy transition, you must also have an income transition for the State. We see how complicated it is to get rid of the income from Groningen. That is also one of the main reasons not to turn the crane off there. I wanted to try to get the minister to think with me. I think in the future, by 2050, you should have income from clean energy. The State needs certain tax revenues. Where do you get it when you get rid of your fossil energy? How can you step in that direction? So it's not just because there might be a lack of capital to create a wind farm, but it's precisely because of the idea: why should only private investors earn from it? Why couldn't the state make any money out of that? That is more the direction in which I asked those questions. I know that the Minister is considering whether EBN can in the long term get a different role. I'm very supportive of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u300	Mrs Van Tongeren started one of her questions with a theorem. That was the argument that we would subsidise small fields. We don't subsidise small fields. If small fields are not profitable and are not used with the tax x given, we are going to see if there might be companies that, if we apply a tax of 0.75% x, are interested in investing in and exploiting these fields, which means we need less gas from Groningen and perhaps less gas from Russia. In order to allow this operation, a little less tax is levied. That's not what I call "granting." Let's not talk about that either. We don't subsidise fossil energy. We do apply lower prices for many consumers. Public storage in the form of levies and taxes is lower with high consumption. That's not just with a lot of fossil energy consumption. If many consumers are going to lose a lot of energy from windmills, they will receive the same treatment. That treatment is the same for fossil and renewable energy. Let us not complicate the matter more than it is and find that fossil energy is not subsidised in the Netherlands. Mrs Van Tongeren also mentioned the main gas network. She was wondering if that would be necessary at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u301	Mrs Van Tongeren would like to ask a follow-up question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u302	I was trying to make a much broader point about the transition to the Minister. The Minister sounds a bit cold and may not be in the mood for a debate with the Chamber tonight. However, I try to think along about the transition. I said that we need three parts for that. I've asked the Minister if he shares that thought. I have outlined a possibility and asked whether the State should not make money from clean energy in the long term. That was the main point of my interruption. At Finance, they say that lost tax revenue is the same as subsidising. Let us not waste words on it whether it is a subsidy or a loss of revenue. The main point of my interruption, however, was: does the Minister agree with me that the State's revenue should be evaluated with an energy transition? I think that question is much more important in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u303	I know I sound like a cold. I apologize for that. However, I am very excited about the debate. That cold is an exchange of views between Mrs Van Tongeren and me. I don't need to jump in as a government, to try to make money somewhere, to make that money instead of business. If people in business make money, I think we should look very closely at whether we can help them. If they can make a lot of money, they don't need that help. They can pay a lot of taxes. The relationship between profit making and companies can be established through subsidies and taxes. If money is made somewhere, including in the energy sector, I do not think that is a reason for the government to jump in. I do think we should step in if it doesn't work, if those companies can't get money or if it doesn't work fast enough. That could all be considerations to jump into. If these considerations arise with regard to fossil energy, I consider the use of EBN after I have first improved the control of EBN. Then I come to the main gas grid, which Mrs Van Tongeren spoke about. Gas is the cleanest fossil energy carrier. If we are going to make that transition to renewable energy in 2050 for a period of 36 years, we need the ideal mix in that period. Some countries have a mix where nuclear energy is used. We have a mix where gas could be used as the cleanest fossil energy carrier. So I think gas should definitely be applied in the coming years. There is also a lot of gas available in the world. Without doing anything about our transition ambition, I would like to continue to exploit the possibilities of gas in the coming years. Mrs Van Tongeren also asked whether the coal plants would close in time and whether the coal tax would be maintained until then. We agreed in the energy agreement on the closure of coal power stations and the abolition of the tax that had just been introduced. For some companies that was less interesting, for others that was very interesting. It is part of the overall complex of agreements made in the energy agreement. We couldn't carry out the deal we made because the ACM was in between because of competition issues. Now we have created a legal structure that looks at the efficiency requirements and has the same effect as regards the closure of the power stations. This means that both the agreement on closure and the agreement on the abolition of the coal tax will be maintained. Those two things are inextricably linked to me. I am convinced that those who made the agreement in the energy agreement will keep their share of that agreement, as I keep my share of the agreement. I don't have the slightest doubt about that. Mr Smaling spoke about biomass and the chemical industry. That's what I've been working on. We encourage large-scale local energy supply. We mainly do financial incentives for local energy generation with netting. That is a very lucrative arrangement for those involved. It's a great success. It is described by the Central Bureau of Statistics as the main cause of the sharp increase in solar power production. I believe that we are already at 1%. That's a lot. The netting arrangement is therefore excellent. Then you have the incentive arrangement via the SDE+, which is widely used for Sun PV projects. In 2014 almost €2 billion of proposals were submitted to us to realise solar projects with support from the SDE+ scheme. So that is also a great success. The third scheme concerns the reduced rate. That arrangement has been in place for a year. I've all tracked down and solved the bottlenecks that were there. Now we are working with the parties to the energy agreement to examine what other things may still be necessary. I am prepared to do the same, because I simply want the reduced rate scheme to be a success too. So we are going very far on local energy, and we are doing so with conviction. I think we can be satisfied with that. Mr Smaling also mentioned the use of SDE+ resources for innovation. I have dealt with the way we do that. Mr Smaling also spoke about the statement by the Central Planning Bureau that wind at sea would cost EUR 5 billion. Mrs Klever has spoken about this on previous occasions: we put down those windmills and it only costs money. The Central Planning Office said that. It used a report from the company Decisio. That company said that the additional costs for wind at sea are EUR 5 billion. That's nothing new to me in itself. If you want to switch from fossil energy, for which you have an existing capacity, to renewable energy, you need to build new capacity for renewable energy. That's gonna cost you. If you want those windmills not all on land, but also some at sea, it costs a little more money. That it costs money is true in itself, but it is not true that the calculation of Decisio is the supreme wisdom. There has been another report from SEO, also a serious company. That said, if you take all the costs and benefits, it does not cost 5 billion on balance, but it generates money on balance. It is not possible to say exactly how much it yields, but that amount is somewhere between 800 million and 12 billion. So one says it costs 5 billion and the other says it costs between 800 million and 12 billion. As I said, I find it all very interesting, but what I find even more interesting is that we are making the transition to sustainable energy production; it costs money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u304	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u305	Excuse me, Mrs. Klever. The microphone's acting a little weird. We're trying not to disturb him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u306	It's new technology, isn't it? The Central Plan Bureau has calculated that windmills at sea cause damage to society of 5 billion. The Minister is opposed to another report, in which a different conclusion is reached. The Central Planning Office is the responsibility of the Minister. What does it say about the Central Planning Office that the Minister is so easy to wipe the report off the table? Does he no longer trust the Central Planning Bureau or does he not think his reports are important?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u307	I don't disqualify the company Decisio, I don't disqualify the Central Planning Bureau, but I don't disqualify the SEO either. Everyone does their own research, has released their own calculations and has their own focus points and their own systems. All I can see is that one company, Decisio, says it costs 5 billion on balance, and the other says it accounts for between 0.8 billion and 12 billion. That's what I'm actually establishing. Here's what I'm saying. If we have a coal power station, a nuclear power station and a gas power station and then say that we do not continue to do so because we want to move towards renewable energy, that renewable energy does not come out of the sky. As far as she comes out of the sky, she has to go through the windmills first. She doesn't come out of the earth, either. Then we have to drill holes and raise the geothermal heat. It doesn't just come at us from the cows and pigs. No, we'll have to mix up the manure first. So there's got to be a lot of things going on. Investment in capacity building is needed to make the transition to renewable energy. We knew that with each other. That is why we have created the SDE+ scheme. Mrs Klever said that wind at sea costs 18 billion. That is not the supreme wisdom she could express. The highest wisdom is that at worst it costs 18 billion and at best 9 billion. It'll be somewhere in that bandwidth. The amount of the amounts depends to a large extent on the price of fossil energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u308	The Minister's bringing in all sorts of things. I don't want to discuss the amounts at all. By the way, the 18 billion is an amount that comes from the Minister himself, so I'm just quoting that. However, my question was about the Central Planning Office, which is the responsibility of the Minister. The Minister says about a report from that office that there are other reports that claim otherwise and that he does not know. If the Minister no longer believes the reports of his own Central Planning Office, doesn't think it's important or useful or doesn't do anything with them, should he draw any conclusions about the Central Planning Office?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u309	That 18.5 billion comes from myself, Mrs Klever said, but also that 9 billion comes from myself. So it's somewhere in that bandwidth, so it's between 9 billion and 18 billion. Mrs Klever may always say that it costs 18 billion, but I tell her that it costs somewhere between 9 billion and 18 billion. As far as the Central Planning Bureau is concerned, I think that this is an important body, which falls under my responsibility. We deal with all kinds of budget matters at the Central Planning Office. I appreciate this kind of analysis being made. In this case, an analysis of Decisio was used. I have not expressed any disqualification about this, but I do not do so with regard to the SEO, which comes to different conclusions. Whether it is one thing or the other, there must be investment to build up replacement capacity. That was my statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u310	Mr Smaling, this will be your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u311	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The Minister's point is clear, but I had trouble with the word 'damage' at the time. Was that a slip of the tongue from the CPB? I just need to be able to rely on the political neutrality of the planning agencies. The word "damage" is frantic. The day after it was said, the Minister also said on television that the CPB was wrong with this explanation. I wonder if the CPB was discussed afterwards about whether, in a project that contains so many assumptions, with hard costs and soft benefits, you should take the word "damage' in the mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u312	Yeah, that's what we've been talking about. I understand Mr Smaling's feelings. I share it, too. I also think you can choose different angles for this. This is already apparent from the different conclusions that several serious companies draw on this point. It is important to have the facts, but also to bring them with some caution. Normally, the Central Planning Bureau is characterized by caution. Mr Smaling also asked questions about the Heat Act. I'm not gonna give you a complete reflection on the Heat Act and the Heat Vision. There are two routes. The Heat Act has been in force since 1 January 2014. It is an initiative law of the Chamber, which has been necessary. Eventually, that law came into force, but that brought with it great changes in the heat world. This means that there are all kinds of bottlenecks. I'm in the middle of inventorying those bottlenecks right now. To remove these bottlenecks, I will come up with a supplementary bill. In addition, I am developing the Heat Vision. In the Heat Vision we focus on the question of how we can reuse residual heat as best we can. The Heat Act will also be discussed in this context. We'll be back together on the Heat Act. Mrs Klever spoke about the hundreds of euros that citizens should pay for renewable energy. Maybe it's a good idea to explain exactly how these figures are. Currently, the average household pays €1.795 per year for gas and electricity. That's where I'm talking about the year 2014, which has just ended, an amount of €17 for renewable energy. In 2020, renewable energy storage as part of an average household's total expenditure will be between €150 and €175. It depends on whether you consume much or little energy. If you use little energy, you will have less storage and you will be at €150. If you use relatively much energy, you are at €175. Those are the amounts we are talking about. These are the costs charged to citizens, as are costs charged to businesses. These are the investments we are making in the transition to renewable energy. We believe that this is ultimately in the interests of citizens and businesses.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u313	That's obvious. An average household currently pays about €1,800. In answering my written questions, the Minister says that an average household based on the same consumption, 3,500 kilowatt hours and 1,600 cubic metres, will pay €2,300. So that's $500 more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u314	It is based on the same usage, but the amount is a little higher there, because we are talking about the year 2020. Other amounts are then assumed, but the total amount that a household pays is between €150 and €175 for an average household of storage for renewable energy. I just said that. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Ouwehand wondered whether I would equate the development of renewable energy with economic growth. I spend every day promoting economic growth. I think it is of the utmost importance that people in our country get to spend more. We can only achieve this with economic growth. But apart from that, I'm working on a trajectory to achieve the transition to renewable energy. We are currently investing much more in renewable energy than you could relate to economic growth, which has been at a low level in recent years, if it was not already negative. At some point it comes into balance, but now an extra effort is being made to achieve that transition. Mrs Ouwehand also suggested something that she has often raised in discussions, namely to stop intensive livestock farming and to stop the production of renewable energy from manure. I wasn't going to. Manure is part of the meat production in our country and of the production of crops. Production in the agricultural sector makes us the number two exporter of agricultural products of the world. That is an important basis for our prosperity. If you produce meat, there's manure. If you can use that manure for renewable energy, I think that's a good thing. I intend to continue to encourage that. Mrs Ouwehand was wondering whether you should introduce manure taxation. At least she thinks I should. I don't intend to. I believe that the system of incentives and tax payments that applies to entrepreneurs in the general sense and to farmers in the agricultural sector in particular is a well-balanced system, which I do not want to pass through with a manure tax. Mrs Ouwehand has a view on both side and most. I have already gone into this in detail, also in her direction, as was my intention. Mrs Mulder wondered what the effect of falling oil prices on our sustainability ambition was. The falling oil prices make it necessary to increase subsidies for the transition to renewable energy. That means that transition is gonna be more expensive. At some point you see what the situation is and what your expectations are for the future. That's why you're making calculations. Later, reality presents itself. One time it gets cheaper, the other time it gets more expensive. You don't know that before. It has now become cheaper; in six months oil prices have fallen by half. I didn't expect that, nor did others. Whoever did provide it is now wealthy. That is a fact that we are confronted with. I don't know what it's like in six months or a year. If I look at the whole picture, I can only say that the estimates we have made are still valid at the moment. If important new estimates were to be made on this point, I will, of course, inform the Chamber. Mrs Mulder mentioned innovation and SDE+. I've already gone into that. I have responded to her in response to the windmills in Drenthe and to the discussions that will take place there with the involvement of the Empire. In addition, she asked whether I would give room for alternatives that could be more acceptable in the case of land-based winds. If alternatives are started or if initiatives are taken, we will look very closely at what is possible and what alternatives are being put forward in the national coordination scheme for land winds. Then we will make a choice and lead it to a decision according to a careful consultation procedure. I have just said that I have been working on this for two years in one situation. That is a very careful procedure. In doing so, we use the structure vision Wind on land, which has also been carefully achieved with a lot of participation. In addition, there is the province, which makes its own structural vision for wind on land. There is also participation. This has also been demonstrated by everything that has happened in Drenthe and Groningen, for which I have offered space. I think that there is a lot of room for alternatives throughout this process, that there is a lot of work being done on support and that it is particularly important to do so. But we have to face each other that you run the risk that projects will not be realized if you make yourself completely dependent on the consent of the immediate environment for a project. There are always bigger interests on a larger scale, which must also be taken into account. We have laid it down in the energy agreement and in the coal agreement. We're trying to defend those interests. We do this in the most careful way, with as much support as possible. I believe that the code of conduct established by the nature and environmental movement, together with the wind sector, supports the process of creating support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u315	Mrs Mulder, this is your third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u316	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. I asked the Minister how he reacted to the three municipalities that sent a letter to the Minister, namely Borger-Odoorn, Stadskanaal and Aa and Hunze. Following the letter back to the municipalities, I hear that there were questions in the city council about what exactly the minister will do with that support. Because the municipalities had actually asked for revised plans, because they themselves had a support measure and were about 80% against. We understand that windmills are going to be there, but it is about the extent and the way in which it is going to take shape. Is it then conceivable that a number of less megawatts will still be released in good consultation with the environment because this can count on much more support? Is that something the Minister still wants to look at?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u317	In that support study, which Mrs Mulder points out, 42% of the people responded, and 77% of them spoke out against wind energy in the Veenkoloniën. Because we want to get something done nationally, we have our procedures. Those procedures are in the interests of those people. Those procedures are made for those people. The People's Assembly here shows that these people want a transition to renewable energy. These people want electricity and gas to always be available to them, now and in the future. They want the interests of nature and the environment to be protected. They want security of supply and we do not depend on some countries. All these interests need to be taken care of. We therefore need to do something about this and we have the procedure for the national structure vision, the provincial structure vision, the national coordination system, the EIA procedure and the licensing procedure. Every time there is participation for the people, but eventually you inevitably come to a point where you have to cut the final knot. If you're gonna back down and start over, you're not gonna be okay. What I say to Mrs Mulder is all that is in structural visions, EIA, coordination arrangements, etc. For me, everything that has been done in a democratic, careful way is the starting point. What can still be done in its elaboration by the province, by the Empire or by the municipalities, we are prepared to do so, but I do not want to create false expectations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u318	For a moment I was wondering whether the Minister was actually prepared to look seriously at the possibilities with the people in the area. I understand that the Minister does not want to raise false expectations, nor do we want to do so here in the House of Representatives, but I would like to point out, for example, the situation in Meeden. A rowing setup of mills is planned there. You can imagine that a number of mills will fall close to the village center. I ask the Minister if he would give the people the room to see which mills are most disturbing. If the Minister says he doesn't want to do anything about it anymore, it's clear, but the CDA hopes that the Minister is still willing to take a good look at it in consultation with the local communities. Perhaps this will increase the level of support. That is the question the CDA is asking this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u319	There is a structural vision of wind energy on land, there is a structural vision of the province, there are zoning plans, there is a state coordination scheme, there is an EIA procedure, there is authorisation. All these things happen according to the rules of participation. You can't say I'm not willing to take a good look at it, can you? It has been looked at for years and years, but in the end a decision has to be made within the frameworks established by the Lower House together with the Cabinet and the Upper Chamber. If discussions are still possible within these rules, then this will be done, including with my involvement, but I do not want to raise false expectations. Mrs Van Veldhoven has said a lot about biomass. I have already gone into that in detail. She wondered how much the closure of coal plants costs. I do not know all that, but I do know that the closure of old coal plants is part of the energy agreement. We have agreed to close these coal plants and to end the coal tax which has just been introduced in direct connection with them. That's a fact, and I'm going to do it. I do not have any further calculations about this at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u320	The Minister knows why I'm asking. That is because coal tax money, which companies no longer have to pay, now has to be raised by households. The amount has been transferred to the SDE+. It therefore seems logical to me that the Minister should know how much he is paying and how much the households are paying for the closure of these coal plants. Is he willing, if he doesn't know now, to have it investigated how much it costs, so that we know with each other what the total price tag is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u321	The revenue from the coal tax was 200 million euros. If it fails, there must be an alternative, but that is part of a very large whole. We do not just decide to transfer these burdens to households. A lot of burdens have been transferred to households and businesses. Some apply to certain companies, others to all companies, sometimes now and sometimes in the future. This has been the subject of a complex agreement which has been negotiated for a very long time. This is part of that. We can take that out and highlight it, but we can also realise that this is part of a larger whole. In any case, we will both agree that the agreement has been made. I want to keep to that; what you think, I like to hear. We have agreed to close down the coal plants and to abolish the coal plants. I intend to honour that agreement from the Energy Agreement as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u322	Nor did I have the illusion that the Minister would not intend to comply with the agreements of the Energy Agreement, because that is what he says about every second sentence. That's also to be praised in him, because that's what he's for. We're here to check on the minister. That is why I ask him to share with the Chamber the figures, the facts under this agreement. Mr Leegte has just asked the Minister to make clear what the different options for renewable energy cost per avoided tonne of CO. I ask the Minister to share with the Chamber the costs of closing the coal plants, not because I would not want to do so, because we have to do so, but because we should have the facts on the table. That is why I repeat my request to the Minister. Is he willing to send that calculation to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u323	Yeah, I just did. I told you what the loss of revenue is: 200 million. That's the calculation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u324	Then perhaps the Minister misunderstood me. I mean, how much does it cost those companies that shut down the coal plants, what damage do they suffer? As I said in my speech, I think it is only natural that we should pay real costs if we, as a government, intervene in business. That's what we do everywhere. What are the real costs of these companies? Then we can judge politically whether there is a real price. Perhaps the price is higher too, but we still find it real in the context of the overall energy agreement. We must first have the facts on the table. What damage do these companies suffer? We now know what is on the other side, the 200 million to which the Minister referred.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u325	I have no idea of the exact costs the companies incur on this part. You can also charge costs in a certain way. There's another way to cover them up or not. All kinds of different calculations can be released on this. I'm not sure what's going on here. As a cabinet, we felt it very desirable to close those old coal power stations. That was also agreed in the Energy Agreement. It has been said that the opposite should be the abolition of the coal tax. We have been negotiating on this for a long time. We then came to a conclusion. I can't do anything about the agreement in the energy agreement; it's just there. I'm not going to ask for company confidential information. If that's why I'm asking, it's still a question of whether I'm getting it. None of that makes any sense, because that information is company confidential and that appointment was made. Whatever calculation is made and whatever information is given, it does not lead to any conclusion other than the conclusion I have just drawn, namely 'climate coal power stations and eliminate coal taxes'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u326	The Christian Union is not negative about a coal tax, because it is behind the idea that pollution has a price. The agreement has been reached on this subject in the energy agreement, but, as far as I am concerned, the tax on coal will not be abolished until the five coal plants have been closed down. I think that's what the energy agreement says. So all five plants have to shut down and then the coal tax will come off. Is that what the Minister has in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u327	No. We communicated those dates to the Chamber. Three power stations close at one point, two other one year after that. We have also indicated when the coal tax will come off. The way I communicated it to the Chamber, I'm gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u328	I am disappointed by this answer. I am going to look into this and come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u329	This is also one of the reasons why I constantly come back to the agreements made in the Energy Agreement. Mrs Van Veldhoven says to me: you will return to that in every second sentence of yours. When we talk about the coal tax, about sustainability criteria, about windmills at sea and windmills on land or about manure fermentation, I refer to the agreements we have made on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u330	I'll come back to the coal power stations anyway. I know the minister as someone who's financial and wants his share tight. Now it costs the citizens 200 million. At the request of my colleagues, the Minister says that he does not really know whether this is cheap or expensive. He does not know whether the damage to these companies is, for example, 50 million, or perhaps 400 million or 500 million. If the damage is 50 million, spending 200 million to compensate for that damage is hugely expensive. At 400 million or 500 million, closure is really a generous movement of business. Then the business community says that we are losing this tax, but we are suffering for it. I cannot therefore imagine that the Minister does not know or does not want to know. When it comes to business sensitive information and the Minister cannot tell us at the moment, he may be able to tell us confidentially.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u331	I know, I want to know, and I've already told the Chamber. Look, in the energy agreement, the closure of coal power stations and the abolition of coal tax are linked together. However, it is not the case that one case is a compensation for the other. The two issues are linked in the energy agreement. In that agreement, a lot of things relate to those energy companies. Surely we all understand that it will have enormous effects on existing energy companies if we switch to 35% sustainable electricity production by 2020? This means that they have to shut down power stations and that power stations run far below their capacity. So that costs the energy companies a lot of money. As you can see, these companies are currently in serious financial difficulties. I believe that all major energy companies have to deal with these financial problems as a result of the transition to renewable energy. Nevertheless, we have been able to make agreements with these companies to achieve that transition to renewable energy. The companies have also committed themselves to this. A positive point for them is the abolition of this coal tax. The entry into force of that measure is linked to the closure of the old coal plants. That's how it's done. That's the information I can give the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u332	I know what the Minister is saying now. But did I hear him say that he knows how much it costs the companies to shut down those power stations? If so, can the Chamber be informed by him, if necessary confidentially, about the amount of that amount?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u333	No. I have said that that amount is not easy to fix. The calculations are, by definition, debatable, because a certain plant may be written off at some point, but despite that it could, for example, go on for a number of years. You can further assess in different ways what the price of energy will be in the future. These calculations are therefore, by definition, debatable. Moreover, it is a matter of business confidentiality which I do not have at my disposal. They are also data that I do not need, because a coal tax has also been agreed on in the whole of the energy agreement. I just said that. Its implementation is linked to the closure of those old coal plants. For me, the case is crystal clear. I don't need any more information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u334	We need to control you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u335	Sure, you can check me because I'll give you all the relevant information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u336	No!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u337	You may not think so, but I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u338	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u339	Mrs Van Veldhoven also spoke about the network companies, which she thought could be used in energy saving. I disagree. I think that these network companies should focus entirely on their core task. Network companies do not play a role in energy saving. There are market players who can do that. It is also precisely those market players that come up with innovations, such as energy displays and smart thermostats. These things come from the market players. So I do not intend to use the network companies for this energy saving. Mrs Van Veldhoven also spoke about the network at sea. In this respect, 3 billion has been saved by the use of TenneT and the clustering that we have created. We have also submitted a plan to the Chamber in which we have planned for a small part the windmills at sea also within the 12 mile zone, with the result that a saving of 1.2 billion has been achieved. That 1.2 billion cannot be spent, because when you realize wind on land and wind at sea, you sometimes have setbacks, sometimes windfalls. If there are setbacks, they must be borne by those who have to pay the SDE+ levy. If there are windfalls, they must also benefit them. So I'm not going to charge the setbacks and spend the windfalls on other targets. I'm not. That is why we have already promised that the 1.2 billion will be spent by means of a tax correction. I have already spoken with Mrs Van Veldhoven about energy saving. I've reported on the 100 petajoule. Work is now under way on the intermediate target of 35 petajoule, to be achieved on 31 December 2016. We will see if we can make it in the course of 2016. Mrs Van Veldhoven has also suggested attracting an environmental manager for new decision-making processes for wind on land. I would like to chew on Mrs Van Veldhoven's thought, because her intention is to ensure that the consultation with the people in the area is done at an early stage. That is what we are trying to achieve in the national coordination system. The provinces also work that way, but I don't think it's wrong to see if you can give that a little more solid form by involving such an environmental manager. So I will think about that and discuss it with IPO and the VNG to see if that will lead to an improvement. So can I keep that with me for a while and come back to that on another occasion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u340	This is your last interruption. Go ahead, Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u341	From Drenthe we have experience with the land consolidation. There was someone there, Peter Bennema, who did a pretty good job. Perhaps the Minister could also look at such examples, because that could work well here. He did that work for ASTRON to get all the channels in a certain area in a good way, so that the farmers also benefited from it. Eventually, everyone got a little better. If we could achieve something like this, it would be worth a lot to the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u342	You support Van Veldhoven's suggestion. I will also include your input in the reflection on this. Thank you. Mr Leegte has indicated that he wants to know the cost per tonne of CO avoided of all the measures in the energy agreement. That's what I'm up against, because then it seems like it's just about avoiding CO. Avoiding CO is very important, but security of supply, the impact on affordability, the competitiveness of businesses, which may have opportunities in the international market, and employment effects are also important. They're all playing along. So you can talk about narrowing it down to CO, but when it comes to these amounts and this scale, that's information that could be relevant to the Chamber in a larger whole. We have already given an insight into the cost of the various measures. For every measure, I cannot accurately reflect what it will cost per tonne of CO. I am prepared to make an inventory of what is going on at the moment and of what the costs are per avoided tonne of CO, and thus give the Chamber an insight into it all over the field. Mr Leegte also spoke about the cost of the energy agreement. He says he wants to see the cost of the energy agreement on budgets well. If Mr Void, and even more the Chamber, would like that, we should facilitate that. I think Mr Leegte is concerned not so much with the cost of the energy agreement but with the cost of renewable energy. All EZ expenditure on renewable energy is related to the energy agreement. We do not have any expenditure in the budget that is not related to the energy agreement. In other ministries, in particular BZK and also Wonen and Rijksdienst, there are also amounts linked to the energy agreement. I will look into how we can make the overview of the whole of renewable energy available to the various ministries, to Mr Leegte and thus to the Chamber, in the next budget presented to the Chamber. I have spoken to Mr Leegte about Friesland. I've been talking about the new techniques he went into. He also wondered to what extent we could offer provinces room for alternatives to renewable energy. I have already indicated that I am very interested in these alternatives. I will need it very much to achieve further progress in the transition in the years after the 14%. Mr Leegte indicated that he had predicted that the cost of fossil energy would fall. Well, I hope for him that he's got that in smart investments too, 'cause now he's a rich man. Anyone who predicts that the price of oil will fall by half in six months will, of course, do very good things. I didn't anticipate it. Mr. Leegte says that he had analyzed it and that he did see it coming. As a cabinet, we can only make our calculations on the basis of the information we have at some point at our disposal. We can also make our expectations for the future as good as possible and involve them. However, we do not have a glass ball.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u343	Of course, no one could have foreseen that it would be half of it. At least I didn't. I agree with the Minister: I wish I had, because that would have been a good profit. What I said a year ago was that in the Millions' Note and the long-term estimate of the Minister himself and of the government, there was, at best, a stable oil price, whereas the energy agreement said that it was going to rise. That was an anomaly from what the EIA said. That was a deviation from what the Millions Note itself said. My question at that time was how the energy agreement could have deviated from that. What did they know of what we didn't know? Now it turns out to be much worse than the government and everyone else could have foreseen. However, the question remains relevant: what happens to the large price difference? What is the consequence of that? That is, of course, what we are talking about in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u344	"Much worse," it's just how you see it. Moreover, the question is how long it will take. As we have not anticipated that this could happen, we can foresee what will happen in the next six months or year. In this respect, we can only make the best possible assessments at any time. The cabinet then bases itself on calculations that are generally made by the ECN, sometimes by the ECN and the Planning Office for the Environment. On the basis of these calculations, which are always accessible and transparent to the Chamber, we come up with our figures. Mr Leegte also spoke about the reliability of the energy supply. I can only say that the Netherlands has one of the most reliable energy supplies in the world. Our gas grid is connected to everything and everything and the same goes for our electricity grid. The production of gas and electricity is optimal. There are all kinds of developments in the future. In the transition from fossil energy to renewable energy, there are changes, we run risks, we need to be careful and we need to monitor and, if necessary, adjust. Given TenneT's estimates for the next few years and given the way we've regulated it now and the attention we give to all developments, I think we're able to maintain the high level of security of supply in the future. In addition, we are working on additional connections with Denmark, Norway and Germany and on strengthening links with Germany and Belgium.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u345	I'm careful with my interruptions, but I have another one. I also have an open question. TenneT's latest report says that the amount of overcapacity is only 1.5%. Renewable energy such as sun and wind cannot be counted as a reliable basic load, purely because there is no shop where you can buy wind or an hour of sunshine. That means it's gonna be very vulnerable. It's only 1.5% where it's now over 20%. Of course we will work together with Germany and Belgium, but Germany has an even bigger problem. That's where traditional power stations shut down.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u346	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u347	My question is: the Minister is saying this now, but how can we ensure that it does not go wrong? How do we ensure that the reliability TenneT sees going down does not become reality?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u348	Mr Leegte goes out with that 1.5% that everything in the mothballs can no longer be used. It's not like that. A number of power stations have been shut down, but there is no bulldozer against them. If necessary, they can be re-enabled. TenneT follows that whole and we follow that whole. At present we have a very secure energy supply, which, according to TenneT, will continue to be guaranteed over the next few years. In the longer term, we will continue to monitor developments closely and, together with the electricity companies, we will take the necessary measures. The security of supply in the transition to renewable energy is one of the most important points. That security of supply in the transition does not speak for itself. We must continue to ensure that it remains at the desired level. The next point is...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u349	Mr Leegte would like to comment on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u350	In addition to the security of supply, my big question was whether the minister has scenarios what to do when large companies go bankrupt. Before Christmas, we saw that E.ON made a kind of bath bank by putting all the fossil power plants in one part of the company and all the renewable energy in another part. Traditional companies are making losses and have to write off billions. That means, in my simple analysis, that these companies are under financial pressure. It's only possible that one of those companies is going bankrupt. Then suddenly big bites come out of the market and my question is: what happens then? Should we then be some kind of rescue from the banks that finance companies with public money, or are there other mechanisms to prevent that? If such a scenario occurs, we should not let the citizen pay again for the energy transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u351	The companies that supply energy in the Netherlands are generally internationally operating companies that form part of a larger whole. It is not only in the interests of the Netherlands but also of other countries that these companies continue to operate. We as governments are trying to provide the framework conditions so that these companies can continue to operate profitably and the transition to renewable energy can be made. These companies will also invest in renewable energy and cooperate with the government. That positive interaction is there. There is currently no reason to speculate about the bankruptcy of energy companies. Mr Leegte does not do that either, but he says that this is an element which deserves attention in terms of security of supply as a whole. All the elements that deserve attention will receive them, and so will this element. It is not a doer of death, because I consider the issue of security of supply and the questions raised by Mr Leegte to be relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u352	No, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u353	You've had two questions. This is an interruption, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u354	I thank the Minister for taking this question seriously. I'm really worried about that. The big companies, such as NUON, GDF, E.ON and RWE, have to write a lot off and then it's not imaginary that such a thing happens. The minister says that's what he's worried about. The follow-up question is, of course, where does that come from? You can work with scenarios that is a memory in the future so you know what to do when you get there. My question is: how does the Minister express the concern he shares with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u355	I didn't say I was worried. I said that these companies in the Netherlands are part of a larger whole. Apart from the Netherlands, other countries also have an interest in the continuity of these companies. We want to create framework conditions for these companies to function. These are important for the transition to renewable energy. The survival of these companies is part of the overall security of supply. The issue of security of supply is important, and that is why this section needs to be given the attention that Mr Veegte demands. The brief summary he gives about this is different from the words I just used. Mrs Dik-Faber spoke about buying wood and about stricter criteria than for wood for energy production. I said that the sustainability criteria of one are derived from the other. Hopefully that will satisfy her. I also discussed the sustainability criteria and their application with the Chamber. I come to the code of conduct for wind on land. I sent a letter on 7 November 2014, also on behalf of VNG and IPO, on that code of conduct. I was pleased because there was a code of conduct drawn up by the industry and the nature and environmental organisations. Rich, provinces and municipalities will actively support the members of the interbranch organisation in complying with that code of conduct. This is a contribution to achieving as much support as possible for the transition to renewable energy and, in particular, the installation of wind turbines in this context. I cannot say exactly what support there is in the decision-making process. Both support and a careful procedure, as well as the weighting of participation, as well as the realisation of ambitions and political agreements, must be linked together. We are doing so by ensuring that we do and comply with the procedures in force in a formal and substantive manner. Where there are opportunities to improve implementation, we use them. I referred to Mr Vos's point on sustainability criteria. I also dealt with the blue energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u356	I would like to refer to a letter to the Borger-Odoorn municipality, which was discussed earlier in the debate. The Minister is right to say that procedures must be followed carefully. The letter identified the procedures, but only after the end of all these procedures were accepted. That letter was shot in the wrong throat at the municipality, because it seemed like procedures were more important than support. We have seen in recent years that support has only been worked on when the plans were almost ready. Does the Minister share my view that support should be discussed at the beginning of the process and that we should then go through the procedures?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u357	No. Procedures and support are inextricably linked. Before you start anything, you have to look at the alternatives and you have to make a choice. Then you start a procedure with the participation needed for this. There are different procedures. You have the m.e.r., the provincial and national structure vision, but also the permits to be granted on that basis. They are all the effects of our efforts to act carefully and gain acceptance. However, at the beginning of the journey, you cannot choose between different options and go through all the procedures, which are focused on care and support, and at the end you will question the matter again to see if there might be more support for another option. That has two objections. One objection is that you cannot realize the ambitions. The second objection is that a plan is still general at first, leading to little resistance. When it comes to a concrete end result, there are people who are directly affected by the plan and with great force express their views. In the public interest, a careful decision must also be taken at the end of a careful procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u358	I believe that the Minister and I agree on a number of points. Procedures must be careful and careful decision-making must take place. The supporting surface should be an essential part of this and should be given a place even at the beginning of the process. I think this is extremely important. We have seen recently that only after the procedure was concluded, when the plans were already in place, was the idea of acceptance. That was also a bit of the suggestion that was raised in the Minister's letter, at least as it was understood by the Borger-Odoorn municipality. I would very much like to give it back to the Minister: shouldn't we constantly anchor the support base in the process and at least have a good understanding at the beginning?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u359	Yes. I think that's important. We will not start a state coordination system without first working on the basis of the principle of acceptance. This involves both planning and financial participation: the application of the Code of Conduct. I fully agree with Mrs Dik-Faber that support from the outset is an important aspect. I believe that good, careful procedures can support the basis, but I also think that it is necessary to take the decision at the end of the procedure. I was working on Mr Vos' comments and questions. I have already addressed the sustainability criteria for blue energy in detail. I have also dealt with 25 petajoule biomass and 100 petajoule energy savings. On the sustainability criteria, he asked what we have done to reach agreement and how far we have come. I hope I have answered him adequately with the points I raised in my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u360	The Minister has indeed answered the questions very well, for which I would like to thank him. I would like to ask whether he would like to comment on the enormous amount of money we are spending... The microphone's jamming. Shall I use another one?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u361	It's my microphone. I apologize. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u362	We are going to spend EUR 3 to 4 billion on biomass by-products. If I understand correctly, we are subsidising it at €0.09 per kilowatt hour. We have paid a great deal of attention to the postcode rose scheme. The total amount involved here is EUR 10 billion, which we are going to subsidise less for €0.07 per kilowatt hour, while there is so much support for this. How does this relate to the effort we make? Shouldn't we think about that further in the future? Did the Minister think about that? Does he have a vision for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u363	I've been thinking a lot about stimulating local energy production. I made a separate policy paper on this and sent it to the Chamber. This is why I believe that this is of the utmost importance. We have three forms in which we stimulate local energy. I have indicated that two forms are very successful. The third form has been running for a year. It is one of the subjects on which I have spent most of my time to solve the problems that arise. I believe that local energy is of the utmost importance, even if it was only for the support Mrs Dik-Faber was talking about. In this way you get people involved and they become aware of their energy consumption and of the possibilities to influence it. I am therefore very positive about this. However, I am not just dealing with that part. I also have to deal with the hard objectives which the Labour Party had in its electoral programme, which are included in the coalition agreement and which have become part of the energy agreement. I need to achieve those goals. I must make the most of everything that is currently available for renewable energy in order to achieve these objectives. That includes biomass. In the energy agreement, it has been agreed that we are not going to do this indefinitely; we are going to put a cap on it. That cap was negotiated on 25 petajoule. I will stick to that and it will be paid the amount necessary for it. In our assignment, calculations have been made for that. We hope that these amounts will enable this renewable energy to be realised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u364	Can the Minister, but not now, explain again how the €0.009 per kilowatt-hour has been built up? Seems like so much money for those pallets when you see how that relates to a windmill plant. It's cheaper than the biomass pallets. And again, the postcode rose scheme of €0.075 is also cheaper. I think it's a lot of money. I can imagine that it is really necessary, but in what way is that amount built up?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u365	I'm certainly willing to give that information to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u366	We were just talking about the enormous amount of money we are now putting into biomass. Of course, that is not something that we are going to make six times as big if we want to go far beyond 14%. So we will need other technologies to make those big leaps after 2020. Innovation is crucial here. I have looked it up: according to the National Energy Exploratory, the Dutch public funds for R&D are above the EU average, but they have been falling for energy since 2010. My feeling, Prime Minister Rutte, is that it is always his 'rageful political feeling', says that something is wrong here. That is why, in my term, I asked the Minister if we could make additional money available for innovation. However, the Minister did not share one of the possibilities. The broader question is then whether the Minister would like to see how we can find more money for innovation at all. We have an opposite trend in this respect: it has been going down since 2010, while the challenge is only getting bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u367	The public investment in innovation in the Netherlands is above Europe's average. We're not doing too bad with that. Business is a little under there. However, we have designed the scheme in such a way as to encourage business to do more. You've seen the effect of that lately. There are huge amounts of money involved in the renewable energy transition, and that is very attractive for business. Among other things, industry has promised to reduce the cost of wind at sea by 40%. This requires a lot of innovation. Business really has a drive to do that. I believe that, with the amounts currently available and with the financial interests that are at stake for business, the possibilities for innovation in the Netherlands in the field of renewable energy are currently wide. I also think it is an example that the Netherlands is the only country in the world to carry out research into blue energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u368	I'm happy with the Minister's response to what's happening. I also share with the Minister the potential that the Netherlands has. An example like that of the blue energy shows that again, as well as what happens in Delft and what happens with energy storage. We have many opportunities here, but the facts say that, where we are on average above the EU level, the amount of public investment for energy innovation has been falling since 2010, even if we include private investment. The European Union once had 3% as its target, but China is achieving this by green investment alone. The Netherlands raises 1% of public investment, but private investment is lagging behind. We're not in a luxury position. We need to do a lot, because public investment in energy innovation has been falling since 2010, despite the fine amounts. Surely that cannot be the intention of the Minister who also sees this great challenge?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u369	I have already said that, in my opinion, business and government are doing what needs to be done in the area of renewable energy. I am prepared to look at the facts of innovation in the field of renewable energy in the Netherlands on the next occasion, which may be the next budget, but also another annual report, and to submit my assessment to the Chamber separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u370	The Minister has not answered one question from me. I was a little afraid of that, because he was talking on my term. So let me repeat my question. How does the Minister intend to prevent an alarming increase in the number of power closures, as in Germany? The Minister just confirmed that an average household would lose €500 more to its energy bill in 2020 if electricity consumption remained stable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u371	Where does Mrs. Klever get that last one? I have said that I will do so again for Mrs Klever, who is currently spending the average household for gas and electricity €1.785. There is €17 in storage for renewable energy. In 2020, renewable energy storage for an average household will be between €150 and €175. I mentioned those figures. So the figures underlying Mrs Klever's question are not correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u372	The Minister has just confirmed it in my previous interruption. He said that an average household with average consumption now pays €1,800 and that an average household with average consumption will pay €2,300 in 2020. He also wrote this in the answer to my parliamentary questions, under Question 7. €500 is of course an incredible amount of money. There are already 1.3 million households that have their mortgages underwater. 2.3 million people live in poverty. 800,000 people can't afford their own risk in health care. How are these people supposed to pay their energy bill when it's $500 higher? How does the Minister prevent us, as in Germany, from having a shocking number of energy closures?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u373	The figures mentioned by Mrs Klever are estimates of future price developments. Mr Leegte has rightly said that the price of oil is currently halved. Prices of gas and electricity have also fallen. The prices that citizens have to pay for electricity are therefore also falling at the moment. However, we are now debating the energy agreement and the transition to renewable energy. I said what the increase is and what the average household pays for it. So that's not about $500. What the transition to renewable energy costs is exactly what can be calculated. In 2014, it cost €17. In 2020, the average household is between €150 and €175.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u374	That was not an answer to my question, to the question I asked in my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u375	I answered that too. At some point, based on the information available, what will be the expected development of gas and electricity prices between now and 2020. In reality, oil, gas and electricity prices are falling. In this debate, we can talk about what we are doing to promote renewable energy, what amounts we want to spend on it and what costs it will cost the citizens. I have just mentioned the figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u376	This brought an end to the government's first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u377	The second time limit is two minutes per political group, including the reading of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u378	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government is aiming for an economy that in the long term relies as little on fossil energy as possible and that our infrastructure must fit in with this;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the possibility and consequences of non-connecting new construction on the natural gas network, for example in the form of an SMEA of a gas-free new construction area,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, according to recent scientific research, large parts of today's well-known fossil fuel reserves should remain underground in order not to exceed the critical 2°C limit;]] [[calls on the government to examine the implications of this understanding for the Dutch energy supply and thus for the energy agreement, and to include this in the 2015 Energy Report,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas local energy generation contributes to the objectives of the Energy Agreement;]] [[Whereas current laws and regulations may sometimes hinder municipalities;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the VNG, to come up with a proposal to give active municipalities experimental space for energy saving and renewable energy projects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government's energy agreement aims at an energy transition and that that transition has an effect on the State's revenue;]] [[Considering that the government could benefit financially from renewable energy production as it now does from fossil production;]] [[calls on the government to examine the possibility of constructions so that the government participates and deserves to participate in renewable energy projects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-262]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-263]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-264]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-265]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u379	With these motions we are trying to support the energy agreement that the Minister has concluded and intends to implement. In doing so, we pay attention to the fact that you need three transitions: one in the area of clean energy, one in the area of financial and fiscal matters and one in the area of infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u380	Mr. Chairman. It is an interesting debate on an extremely interesting subject. On balance, the energy agreement is very promising. This also applies to everything surrounding it and to the transition, which is greater than the energy agreement itself. I deliberately say 'off balance' because a few things are negative for my group. Wind on land is one of them; the Minister will not be surprised. Mrs Van Veldhoven will table a motion on this matter. I have a feeling that support for me means something different from that for the Minister. It's supposed to be "our mills" for those people, and they're not. That is a pity, because that might lead to wind on land dominate the atmosphere around the energy agreement. We certainly shouldn't have that. As regards biomass, I would ask the Minister to respond to the Academy study of professors Vet, Rabbing and Katan. That is, I think, useful, given the discussion we have had on the reform on the one hand and on the green building materials and cascading on the other. I'll file two brief motions. The first concerns the energy saving performance of industry. In the first term, I said a very short sentence about this, but that was actually too short. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas energy saving performance for industry is difficult to monitor at the level of individual companies;]] [[noting that this does not give rise to an understanding of frontrunners, followers and stragglers;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a monitoring system that provides as much insight as possible into this and to use it in the review of the Energy Agreement in 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-266]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u381	Finally, I am tabling a motion aimed at ensuring that as many people in this country as possible believe in the energy transition. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the energy transition should be a process for the whole population;]] [[calls on the Government to organise the review in 2016 in such a way that it is clear to less well-introduced citizens which parts are more or less successful and how their behaviour can influence them for the better,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-267]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u382	Mr. Chairman. It does not benefit the transition to renewable energy if we call things sustainable that are not. When it comes to the majority of wood in our power plants, the Academy is quite clear: it has no place in the transition, it does nothing for the climate and only does damage. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that biomass in power plants leads to large-scale deforestation and biodiversity loss and poses a threat to food security;]] [[noting that research shows that biomass's climate gains in energy production are negligible;]] [[calls on the Government not to subsidise biomass by-products,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-268]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u383	Then there is the generation of manure from the bio-industry. That too is not without energy effects. That manure does not fall from the air, but is produced here using a huge footprint elsewhere. The fact that you dare to call the residual product that comes out of it sustainable, the Party of Animals is actually very embarrassing. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a large proportion of the SDE+ funds are spent on the production of biogas from animal manure;]] [[noting that manure digesters cause major nuisances and risks to residents due, inter alia, to odour nuisance, explosion risk and the possible release of toxic gases;]] [[noting that the fermentation of manure itself produces very little energy and that food crops are fermented on a large scale;]] [[calls on the Government to end the subsidy for manure fermenters,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-269]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u384	Mr. Chairman. Finally, the energy saving targets are not met. The minister who is talking about it has left the debate, but this motion is addressed to him. I hope Minister Kamp can embrace her. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in winter a lot of heat is blown up the street by open doors of shops and that this causes unnecessary energy waste;]] [[calls on the government to encourage shopkeepers to reduce energy waste by keeping shop doors closed in winter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-270]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u385	Mr. Chairman. As indicated in my first term, the CDA is looking at employment, innovation and support for the ESC energy agreement. Fortunately, in the field of innovation, the Minister has moved a little more in our direction by looking at the possibilities. Together with my colleague, Mr Van Veldhoven, I shall table another motion on this matter. As far as employment is concerned, Minister Blok indicated that it was actually a bit slow. I hope he's taking it really fast right now, because that's what he needs. Then there's the support. Minister Kamp gave the regions, including Friesland, space to come up with proposals. The results of this in Friesland are clear. Local and provincial has been chosen for the line-up. Do we really have to conclude today that Minister Kamp is not doing anything about this and is actually referring again to a process that has already taken place before that? This, while the EIA does have room for this and we are getting signals that the new set-up could also be achieved by 2020. We call on the Minister to look at this again and seriously examine this option. On our side, there's a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Provincial States of Fryslân have chosen to accomplish the provincial task for wind energy in an arrangement on and along the Afsluitdijk;]] [[Whereas the EIA report on the Wind Land Structure Vision fits this arrangement on and along the Afsluitdijk;]] [[calls on the Government to allow the placement proposed by the Province of Fryslân,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-271]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u386	Is the CDA aware that, given the amount of windmills Friesland has to place in order to generate wind energy, there should be five or six rows of windmills next to each other? It is not about what it says in the original motion Holtackers/Van Tongeren, but it is a lot more windmills next to the Afsluitdijk. Is the CDA aware that it is in favour of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u387	We have, of course, heard from colleagues in Friesland what this is about. This is the wish from Friesland. There's support for this. Of course, a number of things still need to be made very clear. The question from the CDA to this minister is: does he want to take a serious look at that? If the Minister is genuinely committed to acceptance, I would recommend that he take a serious look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u388	Mr Vos, you too may ask one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u389	Looking at it seriously is something other than the full imposition of the exercise, which this motion seems to be aiming at. Does the CDA still support the energy agreement? There are, after all, a number of conditions, which the Minister must take into account, but which Mrs Mulder's motion seems somewhat populist.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u390	I regret that the PvdA chooses these words, while asking the Minister herself to look at the possibilities. I had previously expected support from the PvdA Group here. The PvdA Group in the Provincial States of Friesland has supported it. I now have to conclude that there may not be such support in the House of Representatives. I regret that. I hope that Mr Vos will be able to state in his term that he also wants to examine this variant seriously. We'd love to realize him, too. We are now very clear about this to anyone who wants to hear it and who wants to know what the CDA thinks about acceptance and whether the CDA takes it seriously. We take it seriously. It would do the PvdA Group good if she did the same. I had a few seconds. Five of them would have gone off wrongly. We also hope that the Minister will have a serious discussion with the people in Borger-Odoorn, Aa and Hunze and Stadskanaal. This is the time for the Minister to take energy transition seriously. Of course the Minister says he has already done so, but why are we seeing these results now? It's a really missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u391	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister as always for the sharp debate. I have a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, if necessary confidentially, to provide the Chamber with an insight into the damage suffered by energy companies due to the agreement on the closure of coal plants by the summer of 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas wind energy projects are of great importance for people to be able to participate and to offer alternatives;]] [[calls on the Government to appoint an external area coordinator per wind energy area in the State Coordination Scheme to coordinate participation and support and loss compensation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important for large energy projects in the spatial environment to be able to offer alternatives, which have a serious bearing on decision-making;]] [[calls on the Government to support at least one civilian alternative per project, if appropriate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Energy Agreement agreed to achieve 100 petajoule energy savings in the built environment by 2020, with at least 35 petajoule energy savings in 2016;]] [[Considering that the National Energy Exploratory shows that the current envisaged policy is far from achieving these objectives;]] [[calls on the Government to present its own proposals in autumn 2015 for additional measures to meet the 2016 intermediate target and the 2020 target, including pilots for innovative projects, in the event of insufficient measures by the Security Committee in spring 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that investment in innovation of new energy sources is of great importance in order to move towards the long-term sustainability of energy resources, but that public investment in them has been falling since 2010;]] [[calls on the government, by the summer of 2015, to submit to the Chamber options allowing additional funding to be made available for the innovation of energy sources within the existing financial frameworks so that we can include these options in the budgetary treatment process,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-272]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Veldhoven, Agnes Mulder and Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-273]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-274]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-275]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Veldhoven and Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-276]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u392	The request in this motion therefore goes a little further than the Minister's commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u393	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his first-term answers. He has promised to come up with an update of the so-called McKinseytable, to see what is going on with the cost-effectiveness of CO measures. That's very good. My question to the Minister is when that table, that update, will come. The energy agreement also looks at employment. There are objectives for this. It also looks at competitiveness and the affordability and cost of electricity. But we do not know what the CO effects of the measures are. And those were the main reasons for the energy agreement, according to the Secretary of State of I and M and the Minister, so they said at least a year ago when concluding the energy agreement on this subject to questions from the VVD. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the objective of the Energy Agreement is to reduce CO emissions efficiently;]] [[Whereas, in addition to reliability, energy policy is also a question of affordability;]] [[noting that it is not directly clear what the economic effectiveness of the energy agreement measures is;]] [[calls on the Government, in the case of the measures resulting from the Energy Agreement, to indicate in euro the cost per tonne of CO avoided of the measure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Leegte and Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-277]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u394	Then my next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the energy agreement provides for different measures to be taken by different ministries;]] [[noting that these measures are often not presented in the budget of the ministries as measures resulting from the Energy Agreement;]] [[Whereas it is therefore impossible to obtain a comprehensive overview of all the measures contained in the Energy Agreement;]] [[Whereas such an overview is necessary in order to be able to control the policy of the government as a Lower House;]] [[calls on the Government to include in all relevant budgets a recognisable rule presenting the measures resulting from the Energy Agreement;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the budget of the Ministry of EZ a comprehensive overview of all measures taken by all ministries under the Energy Agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Leegte, Klever, Agnes Mulder, Jan Vos, Van Veldhoven, Smaling, Van Tongeren and Ouwehand.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-278]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u395	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his answer. The sustainable energy transition makes energy priceless for ordinary citizens. An average household will see its energy bill rise significantly. Part of that increase is caused by the storage of renewable energy, i.e. the windmill load. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in order to subsidise renewable energy, at least EUR 30 billion of storage of renewable energy should be collected from citizens and businesses;]] [[Whereas this is detrimental to our purchasing power and competitiveness;]] [[Considers that this money is spent to a large extent on uneconomic windmills and therefore contributes to the greatest waste of public money from Dutch parliamentary history;]] [[calls on the government to abolish storage of renewable energy, i.e. the windmill tax,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klever. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-279]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u396	With the provincial elections approaching, I hear many groups concerned about the support for windmills. I think there is only one party that really listens to the wishes of the people and that is the PVV. I'll file a motion on it. Perhaps I am wrong and the motion is widely supported by parties who are concerned about its acceptance. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is no support for land-based windmills in the provinces;]] [[believes that building windmills on land is a waste of public money;]] [[calls on the government to stop the roll-out of windmills on land,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klever. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-280]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u397	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers to my questions. In the first term, I advocated an extra effort to implement a real transition to a green economy. That doesn't mean you have to stare blindly at targets by 2020. The initiative for a transition agenda towards 2050 lies with the cabinet and is needed. It calls for boldness, for far-reaching choices in our tax system and in our legislation. We must start to price pollution. However, the Minister's movement is the opposite. He's scraping the coal tax. The Christian Union finds that really counterproductive. Clean energy is being put back on track. Now that the coal tax is being set at zero, I ask the Minister if he wants to re-introduce the tax if the second set of closures of coal power plants does not happen in 2017. I'd like a response. We must use every subsidy euro as effectively as possible. Among other things, the Academy has shown that subsidy for biomass is not a good idea. I do not think it can be explained that we are spending 4 billion on this, while the postal code rose costs a few tens of millions for local energy corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u398	Mrs Dik-Faber is talking about abolishing the coal tax, but I think it says literally that it will be an exemption. The coal tax remains, but it is an exemption. I think Mrs Faber does not want the exemption to apply until the plants are actually closed. Is that correct or does it want to abolish the coal tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u399	The Christian Union is in favour of coal tax, because it is a way to price pollution. As Mrs Van Veldhoven has outlined, it is indeed in the agreement concluded. I have also asked questions about the development path of biomass certification. I have already tabled a motion on this matter, which I have arrested. I'd like to put her to the vote next week. Energy savings generate major cost savings, environmental gains and a boost for the construction sector. The energy agreement states that it must be 100 petajoules. The NEV states that this 2020 target will not be met with the instruments set out in the Energy Agreement. There we need a considerable extra effort. I would like to hear from the Minister when he comes to the Chamber with an additional package of measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u400	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with a motion on the coal power stations and the coal tax. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the energy agreement agreed that the five oldest coal plants in the Netherlands will be closed in 2016 and 2017 respectively;]] [[noting that it has also been agreed that the exemption from the coal tax will apply from 1 January 2016;]] [[Notes that the exemption from the coal tax is withdrawn if the agreed three coal plants have not been closed as of 1-1-2016 and the two remaining coal plants have not been closed as of 1-7-2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Jan Vos and Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-281]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u401	My group would very much like the Minister to look very seriously at the possibility of the Afsluitdijk proposed by the States of Friesland. However, the objectives of the energy agreement must be met, because it is not a free-for-all, as it appeared from another motion that has just been tabled. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a great deal of discussion about the location of windmills in the province of Friesland and that it is very important for the support base to ensure that the integration takes place in the best possible way;]] [[Considering that the Provincial States have voted in large majority in favour of a location in the water (IJsselmeer/along and on the Afsluitdijk) of 316 megawatt and therefore ask the provinces to consult with the Empire to develop the variant on and along the Afsluitdijk as an alternative to the Fryslân wind farm desired by a large part of the population and to submit this effect to the States;]] [[calls on the Government to take as much account as possible of the Friesland Province's wish to integrate windmills into the IJsselmeer or IJsselmeer, in compliance with the energy agreement's objectives. on or along the Afsluitdijk,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Jan Vos and Monasch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-282]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u402	I'm now filing my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Energy Agreement has agreed that a substantial increase in biomass could be co-fired in coal-fired power plants, but that they should meet strict sustainability criteria;]] [[noting that energy companies and environmental organisations have agreed on the sustainability criteria in many respects, but still differing views on the development path;]] [[calls on the Government to call once again on energy companies and environmental organisations to engage in dialogue and reach agreement by 1 March at the latest;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that subsidies from the SDE+ are not made available for the most part of biomass until then,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Jan Vos and Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30196-283]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u403	I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs to answer the questions which remain open and to give his reactions to the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u404	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Tongeren has tabled four motions. In her first motion, in part No. 262, she asked the government to investigate the possibility and consequences of non-connecting new buildings on the natural gas network. New construction projects always look very closely at the energy supply. Municipalities and project developers are looking at what needs to be done in connection with connection to the gas network, and in a more general sense in the field of energy supply, on the basis of the building decision. This means, for example, that the following questions will also be discussed. Is connection necessary to the gas grid? What about possibilities for the use of residual heat? Should something be done with heat and cold storage? On the basis of their own beliefs, municipalities are already working on this. In this respect, they also have a link with the construction decision. I will further facilitate that process with the Power Bill, which I come up with. In doing so, we can further support the balance that municipalities and developers need to make. That means that this motion by Mrs Van Tongeren must be dissuaded by me at the moment. I'll leave it to Mrs. Van Tongeren to decide if she'll hold the motion until we deal with the Power Bill. Then she can determine whether this is properly dealt with in that bill in her view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u405	One of the reasons for tabling this motion is, of course, the fact that, certainly in recent years, we have discovered that there are major problems with the extraction of natural gas in Groningen. That is also a reason to wonder if there are any more reasons to encourage this. Mrs. Mulder from the CDA said the same thing. I would certainly like to follow the Minister's suggestion of holding the motion. However, I would like to take into account not only the degree to which a house is energy efficient, but also the question of how much natural gas we want to continue to consume in the Netherlands. After all, we must also pump up the natural gas that we want to continue to consume.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u406	At the request of Mrs Van Tongeren, I propose her motion (30196, No. 262). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u407	I have taken note of Mrs Van Tongeren's considerations. In her second motion, in part No. 263, she said that the government should examine the implications of the observation that large parts of the fossil fuel reserves should remain underground. What implications should this have for the Dutch energy supply and the energy agreement? This is also mentioned in the Energy Report 2015. In the short term, the Netherlands, as well as Europe as a whole, will certainly still depend on fossil fuels for energy supply. It's no different. The CIEP has commissioned the cabinet to investigate the consequences of this carbon bubble that Mrs Van Tongeren is talking about. The cabinet sent a letter to the Chamber on 16 December. The study shows that the risks to the Dutch economy are manageable in the long term. All the information that could be given on our part is in that letter. That's all we want to do. That means I'm deceiving Mrs Van Tongeren's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u408	I am very pleased with the information we have received about the carbon bubble. However, this goes a little further. They asked what the exposure of the Dutch economy was to that carbon bubble. However, the motion says that if you want to stay below 2C, you should actually consider how many of these reserves we can bring up from underground worldwide. The Minister has repeatedly said that he wants to remain below that 2C and this is also in the coalition agreement. Looking at this has never happened in the Netherlands. This motion therefore asks whether we should not also look at it. If the 2015 Energy Report is not the right instrument for this, it can also be done on another occasion. That is actually the question raised in this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u409	I don't think we should. Apart from the carbon bubble and the considerations mentioned by Mrs Van Tongeren, we are also very motivated to make that transition to renewable energy. We have targets for 2020 and 2023, and Europe has targets for 2030. We have a target for 2050. We're just going in a straight line. This doesn't really add anything to that ambition. That's why I betrayed her. In her motion in part No. 264 asks Mrs Van Tongeren to have the VNG present the proposal to give municipalities experimental space in energy saving and renewable energy projects. I think that experimental space is important. That's why we're offering it. We have made an experimental AMvB based on the Electricity Act. We have constant consultations with the UNG to see how we can also support local energy and energy saving. Municipalities also receive EUR 30 million to support the whole process. We therefore share the value Mrs Van Tongeren attaches to this, but with the AMvB we already have, with the consultation with the UNG and with the funding we already give, we have sufficient incentives. That is why I have tabled the motion in part No. 264 detachment. In her motion in part No. 265 Mrs Van Tongeren says that the government could benefit financially from renewable energy generation and that therefore constructions should be possible in which the government participates and deserves to participate in renewable energy projects. That's not my angle. I have received a few clear statements from the Chamber on EBN, for example with the support of the Labour Party. The conclusion is as follows. We make the management of EBN in order. Next, consider whether public money is needed to finance renewable energy projects. We are also looking at whether this will lead to faster, better implementation of projects. In these cases, participation of EBN is certainly a possibility. Now it is said that we have to do that to earn. I told you I'm gonna do it, but I have my own considerations. This motion is on top of that. Because what has already been said by the Chamber and has been promised by me has no added value, I advise her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u410	My last question of the evening is next. If you consistently say that the government should not earn from it, then you have to privatise the NAM and EBN and ensure that there are no state participations in fossil mining. GroenLinks argues for a level playing field by saying: should we not create a construction in which we, what we do for fossil, also do for clean? If the Minister says that this is not his view, but that the market should do so, unless it is private, does that also apply to the other fossil extractions, such as gas extraction in Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u411	At the gas extraction in Groningen, I am stuck with agreements made decades ago. I just have to take that into account. On this basis, we now have the last part of the extraction of natural gas in Groningen in mind for the years to come. So I don't see that comparison. If EBN were to end up investing in renewable energy projects, then the money invested in them would have to be paid for. This is also earned by EBN. I have no objection to that at all, but it's the question of what your considerations are to do that. I have promised this consideration in line with repeated statements in the Chamber. I do, too, so I don't think there's a real difference of opinion behind this. The motion in part No. 265, I don't recommend. In his motion in part No. 266 Mr Smaling said that the government should develop a monitoring system that provides as much insight as possible into leaders, followers and laggards in energy saving in industry. We have very well-functioning and recently improved agreements with the companies. On a voluntary basis, they provide information enabling us to monitor the energy savings agreements we make with them. If we are now going to provide insight into frontrunners, followers and stragglers, then you are ruining the atmosphere in this respect, because companies voluntarily come up with their business confidential information and then face the fact that they are lagging behind. That doesn't fit well with covenants. If you're gonna make agreements, you're gonna have to make agreements. You need to make it verifiable. If they work in the end, that's good. If they don't work, you're gonna have to improve them. However, this will work counterproductively. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u412	I have two comments to make. First of all, the Environmental Management Act requires that best available technology should be applied. The second point is that, as far as I am concerned, this can also be anonymised at sector or sub-sector level, provided it provides more insight than the containers of, for example, a top sector or a very wide sector within the industrial field. If the Minister wants to read the motion in this way, he may be receptive to the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u413	No. What is stated in the Environmental Management Act must be respected and I have exchanged views with the Chamber on this. We've made a deal about that, too. There can be no doubt about that. The point is that we have well-functioning agreements, where we get the information we need and where we can achieve the goal we have agreed with business. It's a lot of extra work around it to ask for even more business confidential information, so you can start classifying per company. And especially if you're going to anonymize it, you might wonder what its value is. I really do not think that this has any added value and that it does not improve the atmosphere around well-running agreements. That's why I don't recommend the motion. In the motion in part No. 267 says Mr Smaling that the energy transition must be a process for the whole population. I agree with him. I also think that, in future, we should pay more than less attention to the question of how to involve the population as much as possible. Local energy generation is an example of this in three different variants. Another example is that we want to work on the basis at different times in windmill projects. The code of conduct is also working towards that. So I think we should definitely do that. However, the review in 2016 is about a complex energy agreement and about agreements we made in the government agreement. We must then consider whether we can realise the ambitions we had and, if not, what we need to do in order to achieve them. That process should not be confused with the process in which you make the case clear to the people and motivate the people. I do not find the combination made in the motion fruitful. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u414	If, however, the Minister likes the idea, how could I amend the motion so that it is acceptable to the Minister? It is worth a great deal both to the Minister and to me if as much of the population as possible gets excited and has an action perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u415	It is not for me to decide how motions should be formulated. I do not like the link between informing and motivating the population and the evaluation, but I take Mr Smaling's encouragement very seriously. I also think that we should act in the spirit of that encouragement. But I don't recommend the motion. In the motion in part No. 268 calls on Mrs Ouwehand not to subsidise biomass. I apologize for taking this off a little short. We simply have different views on this. I want to stick to the energy agreement, and so I advise against this motion. For the motion in part No. 269, in which manure fermenters should no longer be subsidised, the same applies. I want to take advantage of all the opportunities for sustainable energy production, including this possibility. I also advise against this motion. Mrs Ouwehand's motion on item No. 270, in which shopkeepers must be encouraged to close their doors, does not fit in with the policy of the cabinet. We want to reduce the regulatory burden and not be patronising. Of course, shopkeepers need to take a good look at their energy saving potential and they need to consider it. However, they also want to sell and attract customers. We would like to leave the responsibility for how this balance works out. I'm not gonna tell them to close their doors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u416	I ask the Minister to look for ways in which that can be stimulated. I imagine he's in consultation with an alderman of a city. I think there should be a pilot somewhere, because I do not think it would be desirable for people not to go to a shopkeeper who has closed his doors and to the competitor who has the door open. I can imagine that individual shopkeepers would benefit from a joint pilot project to see what we can save. But then everyone has to participate and perhaps only a very small push is needed. I'm asking the Minister to look for ways to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u417	I could have said that we could make this a subject for discussion in consultation with shopkeepers, but that is the responsibility of my colleague Mr Blok. I don't want to be patronizing with those shopkeepers, and that's why I advise against this motion. In general, I would like to discuss with them energy losses that occur when the doors are open in winter. I am so reluctant because the physical retail trade in the Netherlands is having such a hard time. Shopkeepers do their best to sell and bring people in. They have to consider this, and I want to give them that space. I want to discuss it with them, but I don't want to patronize. I do not recommend the motion, but I will consider how this point can be discussed in consultation with the shopkeepers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u418	Thank you for that commitment. It's not about patronizing me, and I'd like to hold the motion. It would be nice if the Minister could report on the response of the shopkeepers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u419	I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u420	At the request of Mrs Ouwehand, I propose her motion (30196, No. 270). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u421	Mrs Mulder asked the government to allow the installation of windmills proposed by the province of Fryslán. That motion in part No. 271, I can only advise against it. It's about a placement that's on land outside the wind energy structural vision. No structural vision has been established by the province itself. The province is asking for something to explore and investigate. This means that the current and future state coordination procedure could be stopped and a new procedure should be launched. I have already indicated that this would result in a delay of more than two years, and that means that the agreement made jointly with the provinces is not being complied with. As a result, I cannot meet the target for renewable energy. I will combine the view of the province of Friesland with the latest results of my research into the location of windmills on the IJsselmeer with the objectives to be achieved. I will consider all this in my final decision in my current state coordination procedure. I can do that, but I can't be positive about the statement that we're going to make that placement possible. That's why I don't recommend this motion. The motion in part No. 272 belongs to Mrs Van Veldhoven. It wants to have an insight into the damage caused to the energy companies by the agreement on the closure of coal plants. I have had an extensive exchange of views with Mrs Van Veldhoven and I have said that I do not want to do so. That's why I don't recommend the motion. Mrs Van Veldhoven, together with Mrs Mulder and Mr Smaling, tabled the motion for a resolution on item No. 273 submitted. It calls for an external area coordinator to be appointed for each project in the State Coordination Scheme. It must be about participation, acceptance and disadvantage compensation. She's going a little further in there than I want to go. Mrs. Van Veldhoven makes a suggestion. In my view, it is important to consider how it relates to existing activities and whether they can have added value. Once I've looked at that, I'll come up with an opinion on that. I don't like the fact that before I look at it, I'm told to do it. As far as I'm concerned, the motion will be held until I've looked into it. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u422	I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to chew on it, as he himself said. I see the points in the motion as points for reflection. We'd like to wait for that trial. Can the Minister tell us when he intends to return to the Chamber with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u423	I will not allow that to last longer than is necessary. At the end of this quarter or at the beginning of the next quarter, I will inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u424	Then we'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u425	At the request of Mrs Van Veldhoven, I propose her motion (30196, No. 273). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u426	Then I come to the motion on part No. 274. It states that, where appropriate, the government must support at least one civilian alternative per project. In the case of a procedure aimed at the installation of windmills, all alternatives should be considered at the beginning. Alternatives offered by the municipality or provided by those citizens, whether organised or not, must be considered. Apart from the question of whether or not an alternative is on land within the wind energy structural vision, I do not think it is desirable to lay down that obligation. I wouldn't want to have this obligation. I have said that it is very wise to collect, visualise and weigh alternatives at the beginning. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u427	I am pleased that the Minister says that he will take a serious look at all the initiatives that are being submitted. In order to be able to compare an initiative that is truly viable on an equal basis with an initiative developed, for example, by initiators of a wind farm, it is important that this is well developed. Otherwise, you're gonna compare apples to pears. We also see this in infrastructure projects. That's where this idea comes from. There is also a degree of support for citizens' initiatives. I think it is important that, if an initiative emerges from all these ideas, citizens, if there is any reason to do so, should be supported in their development so that we can make an equivalent comparison. This is in everyone's interest and helps to understand and support those who submit that initiative and whether or not they are right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u428	I will look into what has been communicated to the Chamber by me and colleagues on the issue of citizens' initiatives. I'll see if there's any reason to come up with a supplement. I don't know. I'll inform the Chamber of my findings. I'm dissuading the motion. Maybe Mrs. Van Veldhoven can hold the motion until I've looked into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u429	I'd be happy to hold the motion until then. It is your colleague Schultz who is concerned with infrastructure projects and participation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u430	At the request of Mrs Van Veldhoven, I propose her motion (30196, No. 274). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u431	I will include what Mrs Van Veldhoven says. Mrs Van Veldhoven has also asked for a statement that additional measures could be taken in autumn 2015 to meet the 2016 intermediate target and the 2020 target. We have targets for 2020 and 2023. For energy saving we have a target of 100 petajoule, with an intermediate target of 35 petajoule as at 31 December 2016. We know exactly what these objectives are. I will evaluate that in the interim as planned. Then I will take action if necessary. If this is what is being asked in the motion, she is superfluous and I advise against her for that reason. If it means wanting more, then I am not prepared to do so and I also advise against the motion. In the motion in part No. 276 says Mrs Van Veldhoven that the government should submit options to the Chamber by the summer in order to free up funds for innovation within the existing financial frameworks. I am responsible for innovation and for the sustainable energy transition. Of course, it is attractive to get extra money, but I think that with the amount of 170 million made available through the top sector for innovation for the renewable energy transition, we have the necessary resources. I have already said that I will inform the Chamber of what is available in the course of this year and to what extent this is sufficient. I will come to the Chamber with that information, but I do not think that it is wise to say what is requested in the motion. I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u432	I'm glad the Minister says he's willing to put it on paper and put it in perspective. Those two things I hear in his answer. I suggest that I weaken the motion slightly by saying that the Minister does not have to submit options, but should investigate the possibilities. Then we can always see if we find it worthwhile, but then we know what could and could not be done, coupled with the perspective that the Minister himself is going to outline.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u433	I never make extra claims for money outside normal procedures. When I have claims, I do them through the spring note, the autumn note and the budget and not through motions. I don't like that for a ruler. I always stick to that myself. To say that we are going to make extra money available for innovation, I do not think it is right. I believe that there is sufficient money available from the government for innovation for the renewable energy transition. I believe that there are many incentives for business, given the huge amounts of money involved and the ability to attract them if they perform particularly in the field of innovation. I think this is a great incentive for business. I therefore believe that there is sufficient money available. In the course of the year, I'd like to put it together again for the Chamber, but I'm not asking for any extra money. That's why I don't recommend the motion. In the motion in part No. 277 asks Mr Leegte to make the cost of avoiding COinvisible per tonne of COper measure. I'll do that. In the foreseeable future, I will appoint the measures, indicate the costs and inform the Court of Justice about them. It will be a measure that I will take once to provide the Chamber with full insight. If that is the intention of Mr Leegte's motion and Mrs Van Veldhoven's motion, I shall leave it to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 278 by Mr Leegte and a large number of colleagues, the government is asked to give an overview of all the amounts in the budget relating to the energy agreement. If Mr Leegte is referring to all the amounts in the renewable energy budget, then the energy agreement extends across the whole spectrum of renewable energy, and he wants these amounts to be understood across the board, I would like to leave the opinion on this motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. Mrs Klever's 279 calls on the government to abolish the storage of renewable energy. I do not recommend this motion because we have set it up precisely to enable the transition to renewable energy. The motion in part No. I also advise against Mrs Klever's request to stop windmills on land, because this is an important part of the transition to renewable energy and this is very much in the interest of the people in the Netherlands. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 281 of Mr Vos and Ms Van Veldhoven, which submitted the ruling to the Court that the exemption from the coal tax would be withdrawn if the agreed three coal plants were not closed by 1 January 2016 and the two remaining coal plants were not closed by 1 July 2017. The Chamber must have an opinion on this. I can only say that the view put forward by Mr Vos and Mrs Van Veldhoven to the Chamber is in line with my policy. I shall therefore leave the vote on this motion to the Chamber. In the motion for a resolution, Mr Vos asks for item No. 282 to the Government, taking into account the objectives of the Energy Agreement, to take into account, as far as possible, the wish of the Province of Friesland on the integration of windmills into the IJsselmeer or IJsselmeer. on or along the Afsluitdijk. I would like to ask Mr Vos to hold this motion so that I can inform him at the end of the current state coordination procedure on how my assessment has gone. I will take into account the information I am still getting from ongoing investigations in that procedure. I have to deal with the goals of the coalition agreement, which must be achieved, both in time and in size. And I have to deal with a statement by the provincial board of Friesland, which, by the way, has not established a provincial structure vision before 1 January 2015. I will consider this in full and I will give the attention they deserve to all the parts of it. Then I will make my conclusion clear to the Chamber. Perhaps Mr Vos will be able to put the motion to the vote by then, but they will now be retained. I would like to leave it to Mr Vos to make that assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u434	What exactly is the Minister's reason for me to hold that motion now? I am prepared to do so, but I do not understand why the Minister is so anxious to do so. We can simply include that consideration in the Minister's assessment in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u435	I have made a very careful statement to the Chamber on this point. I have talked about agreements with the provinces, about an ongoing state coordination procedure and about a location for a wind farm that has been delivered from Friesland. We are now at the end of that procedure. It is important to ensure that what you have done carefully also leads to a careful decision. It is not the case that my decision is based solely on what information comes out of that procedure, including from the investigations currently under way. I must, of course, also include the objectives of the coalition agreement and the energy agreement. I must also include the ruling of the provincial board of Friesland. I have already said that I will do so and that I will also give all those parts individually the attention they deserve. I do not see the added value of this motion. It is a difficult process, but it must lead to a decision. A motion which, in my view, has no added value does not facilitate that process. That is why I am considering holding the motion. Those are the arguments I can give for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u436	You can no longer ask a question, Mr Vos. You can only indicate whether you are holding the motion or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u437	I will not ask any more questions, but I would like to point out that I will have the Minister's considerations taken into account and that, after consultation with my group, I will take decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u438	The motion in part No. 282 is under arrest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u439	In the motion in part No. 283 by Mr Vos and Mrs Veldhoven, the government is invited...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u440	I said it wrong. Mr Vos is not going to hold the motion. I misunderstood that. You haven't made a decision yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u441	You can read it in the Acts. Sorry, I'd like that comment to be deleted from the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u442	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u443	I'll think about it very carefully. That's what I said about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u444	The motion in part No. 282 has not yet been apprehended. Well, that's in the Acts now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u445	That is clear, Madam President. Then I come to the motion on part No. 283 by Mr Vos and Mrs Van Veldhoven. With regard to the sustainability criteria, an attempt has been made first by a separate chairman, who has made great efforts. Then it was tried by the chairman of the bail committee and then by me. However, it did not work out, and in the end it has to be dealt with in the way I have indicated. The motion calls for another attempt and in the meantime for no subsidy to be made available for most of biomass. I have no major objections to that. The proposers give me another month and a half to try again seriously. We tried it three times. If Mr Vos and Mrs Van Veldhoven ask for a fourth attempt, then I am not going to oppose it. I will not make a grant available in the interim. So I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. I'll see if I left any questions. I have answered Mrs Dik-Faber's question about coal power stations. I put down Mr Leegte's question about the update of the McKinsey table in time. Then I think I have responded to what the House of Representatives has put forward in the second term, for which I thank her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u446	Mr. Smaling has another afterburner.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u447	I had asked for a response from the government to the study carried out by three professors on behalf of the Academy on the biomass issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u448	If Mr Smaling appreciates that, I will see which piece is best suited to come up with a response. So I'll come up with a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-9.u449	We will be voting on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank you all for your participation and I thank the Minister for wanting to do so under difficult circumstances.
