ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. You want to be proud of your country, proud of our achievements, proud of our past. As a country, we know only too well how others should deal with their past. We take it for granted that our eastern neighbours are constantly reflecting on their recent war history. But is this also self-evident when it comes to the description of the dark periods of our history? Slavery is a disgrace to our history. It has been pushed away too long and too often. We'd rather not talk about it. We prefer to talk about the Golden Age, our successes in the East, our VOC mentality, our fight against the Spaniards. But that's just part of the story. We were able to make the Night's Watch and we had our invigorating share in slavery. We Dutch were also trading with people. We made people a commodity. We thought we could own people, trade them, they could be servants. We must remember that slavery. We must continue to learn from it and it forces us to humble ourselves about that part of our history. This calls for a national remembrance, carried by our country. That memorial doesn't tolerate Holland's merchantship, no discussion about whether we have any money for it. It demands the moral and symbolic recognition of a country's administration in order to make this possible, both in the presence of the government and in the contribution of the state budget. That is why my questions are short and simple. Is it true that the cabinet will or will not end the funding of the national commemoration of slavery after 2016 through the Mondriaan Fund? Should this be the case, is the Cabinet prepared to continue the current funding of the commemoration of slavery beyond 2016 and is it prepared to provide long-term security for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. With Mr Monasch, I believe that slavery is unfortunately part of Dutch history, that it is a dark period and that it is therefore important that we remember that period, consider what we can learn from it and continue to reflect on our own history. Having said that, in reply to the first question, I can tell you whether the reports in Het Parool are correct. I have now understood that the director of the Mondriaan Fund has been in contact with Het Parool about the article and that she has meanwhile provided Het Parool with the right information. What's the deal? When I arrived, the subsidy for the memorial and the NiNsee, the museum, had indeed been withdrawn. Immediately after my arrival I made €50,000 per year until 2016 available to the Mondriaan Fund, precisely to allow commemoration of slavery. On top of that, I made €400,000 available in 2013 through the Mondriaan Fund and a one-off contribution to the municipality of Amsterdam, all in the context of the commemoration of slavery. Furthermore, my colleague from Social Affairs has also made funds available, including for a toolbox to support teachers in teaching about slavery. What about the future? This subsidy expires after my period, even after the current BIS period. In 2017, we are going to distribute the new resources; we recently had a debate on this with the Chamber. I will come in May with my initial letter on the new period. It will also include grants for the funds. I think we're gonna talk to the room about that. I think we can work it out, as far as the commemoration of slavery is concerned. After all, the Chamber should know that I attach great importance to the means of commemorating slavery and the past of slavery. This will be no different in 2016 than in 2013.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u3	I understand the Minister's response in such a way that she wants to continue funding the national memorial after 2016. That's good news, but can the Minister confirm that clasp-and-ready? Moreover, we should not have this discussion every four years. We carry this history with us, and there must be long-term certainty about it. It should not be the case that, in four years' time, we will have to talk again on the basis of a newspaper report about whether this will be included in another Art Plan. Is the Minister prepared to consider whether this funding might be placed somewhere else, so that it is simply a structural expenditure in the national budget and so that this discussion does not return here every time? After all, it is almost embarrassing to have to have that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u4	At the moment, I cannot go beyond saying that I attach great importance to the commemoration of slavery and that this will continue to be the case in the future, but this is a discussion that we must have with each other in the context of the new Art Plan for the whole new culture period 2017-2020. We discussed this with each other recently. I sent a request for advice to the Culture Council. That advice will come soon. I will send a letter of principle to the Chamber on this matter. That seems to me to be the perfect time to think about what needs to be done in the funds, what needs to be done in the basic infrastructure and how to ensure that long-term security can also be achieved in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u5	Finally, I understand that the Minister says that even after 2016 there is at least the commitment and commitment of the Cabinet to allow this national commemoration to remain possible from the national budget in the following years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u6	Yes, again: me and the cabinet attach importance to giving meaning to the commemoration of slavery. I am not only doing this; my colleague Asscher of Social Affairs is also very closely involved. The question of how you do that and the question of who can make an application must be decided in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u7	These are justified questions from Mr Monasch. The dark slavery ideas were conceived in the Ministry of Colonies. Unfortunately, Mr Monasch and his partymate are still in the Ministry of Colonies. The Minister mentioned a number of measures. My specific question is whether she is prepared to transform the former Ministry of Colonies into a "museum of Colonies" rather than the past of slavery.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u8	If I wanted to do that, I would not go about it, because I think that is what your President is talking about, Mr Öztürk. If I was talking about it, I might take away your room; I don't know exactly where you are these days, but it might be in those parts as well. Apart from that, I attach to the fact that several museums in the Netherlands pay attention to colonial history and slavery. For example, the Rijksmuseum, as well as the Maritime Museum. In the Zeeuws Archive, where I was recently, even in images and sound, what happened on a slave ship and what it looked like, is imitated by a doctor's log on that ship. These are all elements that are very important to confront our younger generations as well. That doesn't have to be in one place, as far as I'm concerned, in many more places. On that point, I would like to be somewhat more ambitious than Mr Öztürk might be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u9	Mr Öztürk's second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u10	But...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u11	Your question must be put to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u12	Well, the Minister did pass it on to you, Mr. Chairman. I say to the Minister of Education that we have hundreds of thousands of young people here in the Chamber, and I even understood about 300,000. Surely it would be wonderful if all young people visiting the House of Representatives, including a slavery museum, a museum of colonies, would visit, in order to see the past of the Netherlands and the shared past of all of us here in our democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u13	As Minister of Education, I do a lot of work together with Asscher College to ensure that slavery history is a subject for discussion in education. I have already referred to the digital toolbox in which it is precisely about providing teachers with handles to make the history of slavery discussable in the Netherlands. Again, I would like all young people not only to come to one place here, but there are many places in the Netherlands where slavery history is made visible. That is why I also asked the Rijksmuseum and the Open Air Museum to think further about this national history and how we can make it accessible to many people in the future. I agree with Mr Öztürk that we cannot continue to stress enough that, unfortunately, this is also part of our Dutch history.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u14	For D66 it is also important to remember the abolition of slavery, everything that happened at that time. I am therefore pleased to hear the Minister's ambition. She talks about the Art Plan and that every four years we have to distribute it through the Mondriaan Fund. A few years ago, her predecessor said that it was the intention to achieve a "orderly vision of the future" in the area of commemoration at the monument. I therefore ask the Minister whether she would at least like to explain in her letter how we can remember in a structural way. This debate arises every few years, and I do not think it is appropriate, given the subject we are discussing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u15	I understand your concerns and say I will return to them. I am not saying that we should put it right in the BIS, because this is about institutions that are really receiving long-term subsidies. However, we must say to each other that it is important not to have a new discussion every year about whether or not to appreciate such a memorial. We shouldn't want that. So I'm sure this debate will continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u16	Can you tell me when you'll be able to get back to me on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u17	I think I have already said that my initial letter on the new cultural period will be sent to the Chamber in May.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u18	For the summer. Thank you. I call Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u19	Following on from this subject and the Minister's commitment, the following. If there are requests for subsidies to commemorate the abolition of slavery, what is the Minister's position? Is she going to look favourably at these requests? Does it have the commitment to continue to finance such activities, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u20	Yes, but the proposals will be submitted to the Mondriaan Fund. That is how we have arranged it; it is the funds that decide on the quality of applications. I can say that I have reserved funds for the commemoration of slavery, but I cannot say in advance who gets those resources. This must be assessed in qualitative terms. I will stand for that, even here, no matter how important it is to society. If funds from the cultural and art funds are to be used, these applications must be of high quality. It is the responsibility of the Mondriaan Fund to judge this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u21	Thank you for your answers. Thank you, too, for coming to the Chamber.
