ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-5.u1	That's right, Mr. Chairman. It is good that you have allowed this question. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, the U.S. Central Command accounts were hacked on Twitter and YouTube. The group that carried out the hack called themselves the Caliphate and claims to support ISIS. The U.S. Central Command commands all U.S. military in the Middle East, North Africa and Central Asia from Tampa, Florida. This is the nerve center of American military operations in as many as 20 countries, including Afghanistan and Iraq. This nerve center also coordinates the international coalition that fights ISIS in Iraq and Syria and thus also the Dutch contribution. A message on the Twitter feed from the Central Command was: American soldiers, we are coming, watch your back. Was signed, ISIS. All this must set off alarm bells, not only in Washington, but also here with us. The hack took place exactly at the time when President Barack Obama gave a speech on Internet security, including on another hack that was very exciting, namely Sony Pictures' by probably North Korea. Of course, there is a big difference between data breach and hacking a Twitter account and between commercial information and defence information and infrastructure, but any security breach, especially at this level, raises the question whether we are sufficiently resilient to cyber attacks. I have four questions. How did this happen? Was any confidential information obtained from this hack? Have security interests, including Dutch security interests, been at stake in this? The U.S. Central Command states in a press release that there has been no operational impact. Can the Minister confirm that? Who's investigating this, anyway? Is it U.S. Central Command itself, or does the FBI? Are the results of the investigation shared with us? The U.S. Central Command also states in a press release that it sees this hack merely as a case of cybervandalism. Does the Minister share that view, or does she see any reason to ask some more serious questions to the Americans about fundamental vulnerabilities in cyberattacks? Finally, the Twitter page of Central Command also contained personal data from military personnel, including senior officers. It would be address details, e-mail addresses and phone numbers. Was this information public? Are there any Dutch military members?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. That's a lot of questions. Indeed, CENTCOM confirmed yesterday that the Twitter and YouTube accounts were compromised for about 30 minutes. The incident is currently under investigation. Mr Ten Broeke asked me whether CENTCOM did so or whether the FBI was involved. I do not know which services are involved, but the fact is that CENTCOM has initiated the investigation and that various services will be involved from their expertise. It has been stated that the results of the study will be shared with the Netherlands if they give cause for this. Let me be clear: hacking Twitter or YouTube accounts is not very complicated: it can happen to you and me. These sites run on the so-called commercial servers. CENTCOM himself said the necessary things about this last night. It is now clear that the operations controlled by CENTCOM have not been compromised. The security interests of the coalition have therefore not been at stake. Consequently, the Dutch security interests were not at stake either. CENTCOM itself speaks of a case of cybervandalism. I have been asked whether I share that view. At least I have no reason to doubt that. Another thing that stood out was Mr Ten Broeke himself saying that it was signed by ISIS. IS itself rarely or never speaks about ISIS but always about IS. So it may well be an action of sympathizers of IS. The information leaked doesn't seem classified. I have just referred to the investigation; we will have to wait and see. It is now clear that many documents and images that came out last night were previously published on public websites. CENTCOM has also indicated that anyone whose personal information has come out will be approached by CENTCOM. I now have no reason to assume that there was information from Dutch military, but if so, we will be approached by CENTCOM. Once again, the results of the research will also be shared with the Netherlands if they give reason to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-5.u3	I think that the most important part of the Minister's reply is that the security interests were not at stake, neither those of the coalition partners nor those of the Netherlands. That insurance must be obtained, because the operations are very sensitive and the level at which security interests could have been at stake is very high. The Minister also said: it is a relatively simple operation; it could have happened with your or my Twitter account. For a moment I thought she was going to say that we could have done it ourselves; at least she'd be too high on me. We have to be 100% sure that this kind of thing is going to happen, and we have also seen what happened to Sony, which cannot happen in the future. That is why I am asking a few supplementary questions. In this event, does the Minister see any reason to look very closely at the Dutch armed forces and their partners, who also coordinate operations? Are we sufficiently protected against cyber attacks? Does the Dutch military also have sensitive or classified information on commercial servers? Can the Minister guarantee that this information, which is apparently easier to hack, is still safe?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-5.u4	Of course, Mr Ten Broeke is quite right to say that we really need to get the assurance that sensitive information has not been compromised. The first indications are that this is not the case. That's confirmed. I just referred to the investigation. I too will have to wait and see the results, but I have no reason to doubt the words that CENTCOM said clearly yesterday and today. Cybersecurity is a permanent subject of attention. In general, we say that guarantees can never be given 100%. It is not only a permanent issue for the Netherlands, but also for our coalition partners, for NATO and the European Union. Classified information is never put on commercial servers in Defense. Those are also the instructions that the employees receive. We have experienced in the past that an employee spontaneously sent something to his Gmail account. Even then you'll get in touch with a commercial server, but it's always being sent on and it's always being watched. There are no guarantees in life, but everything is being done because cybersecurity is the key to almost all military operations in 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-5.u5	I thank the Minister for her answers and for her coming to the Chamber. This brings to an end the first oral Question Time of the new year.
