ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u1	Mrs van Veldhoven has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u2	Mr. Chairman. We have the impression that it might be a good idea to make only the contribution of the Chamber this evening in the first term. Many detailed questions are likely to be asked, which may then be partly answered in writing. If those answers are received, the Secretary of State may explain them orally in the second period in the follow-up to this debate, at another time. I hope that this will be supported by colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u3	I'm looking at the members. There's a nod in agreement. So tonight we're only doing the first term on the side of the Chamber. You've all signed up for quite a few minutes. I know that this is a matter of legislation and that no speaking time has actually been fixed for it, but I would ask you to stick to the speaking time for which you have registered as much as possible. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Van Veldhoven of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u4	Mr. Chairman. If you travel by train, you want it as fast, as cheap, as reliable and as comfortable as possible. Who owns that train, which logo is on it and which hat the driver wears, the traveller doesn't care much. D66 believes that rail competition can provide that faster, cheaper, more reliable and more comfortable train journey. Competition keeps everyone sharp, including the NS. On routes where other carriers can offer a better product, they should also be able to do so. That is all in favour of the traveller and that is what it is all about. This competition must be fair, open and transparent. That's another challenge. The track is not an ordinary market. Market parties such as Veolia, Arriva, Syntus and Connexxion have to compete with a state-owned company that has been running on most of our tracks for over 175 years, namely the NS. From this unique position, the NS has information and assets that other market participants depend on, such as stations, station facilities, passenger information and passenger statistics. It is therefore a particular market, in which parties depend on a competitor, for example for crucial information in procurement. That therefore requires very clear rules. It calls for transparency and it calls for a very good, strong market master. We have often spoken with the Secretary of State on this subject, for example last year, when I tabled a motion with the CDA, together with a colleague of Mr Van Helvert, Mr De Rouwe, for a quick scan of the Authority's Consumer & Market on procurement in Limburg. This should assess whether there was a level playing field. Unfortunately, this motion didn't make it. Now, a year later, there is still an ACM advice. It concludes that there was no level playing field. This report from the ACM is now under the judge. The Secretary of State has therefore rightly said that she cannot say much about it now. I assume she, like D66, is very curious about the judge's ruling, but we will not go into this case now, since it is now before the judge. However, the appeal by the NS raises a different question. To what extent does the NS accept the ACM as market leader? In its response to the aforementioned motion, the State Secretary said that a fair playing field in decentralised procurement is a matter for local authorities. Today we are talking about a legislative proposal to ensure a fairer playing field, including for decentralised procurement. What role does the Secretary of State see for himself in these decentralised calls for tenders? What role does she have? What role does the ACM play? What should the local authorities themselves take care of? The legislative proposal we are discussing today represents progress on a number of points. The ACM is given a stronger position, in which it monitors, inter alia, the network statement, the fee for the minimum access package and access to services and services. The ACM can also do a pre-test, a so-called ex-ante test, on the method of allocating costs. But do we remove all the bottlenecks? Were the current problems surrounding the invitation to tender in Limburg prevented if these rules had already been applied? I doubt that. For example, I read in the explanatory memorandum that the ACM supervises the station portfolio and that it has sufficient powers to act with the implementation of the directives. But what exactly does that mean? Is that a guarantee that it always goes well, for example with the system of fines or the training or not in the provision of information? The case of Limburg has, I think, served as an illustration for all of us. The Secretary of State states that the ACM already has the possibility to impose a penalty charge. But in Limburg the NS would have delayed delivery for so long that the burden under penalty was no longer worth the effort. Does the Secretary of State see this problem as well? And how is she going to prevent this in the future? Furthermore, I read that the cabinet is not in favour of more ex ante surveillance. The ACM itself states that more ex ante surveillance is needed to make the rail market fairer. The ACM even calls a complaint scheme or ex-post supervision ineffective for the purpose of supervision. Ineffective! And that is our supervisor, who describes this as ineffective. In 2013, therefore, it advocated a much broader competence for ex ante surveillance, including for price regulation of services and services. I must say that I do not see in the government's documents any good, substantive argument for why it has not opted for ex ante surveillance in many other areas, such as the station portfolio. I would therefore like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. I know that amendments have been tabled on this subject and will be happy to take a positive look at it. The foreign position of the NS in the market and the question of how good competition can occur are also visible in business mobility cards. Employees of companies can use different forms of mobility with such a map; from the train and bus, but sometimes also from a taxi or a rental car. Everyone understands that the train is an essential part of such a mobility card. Most of the Dutch network is in the hands of the NS by direct award. But the NS has its own product, the NS-Business Card; we probably all have it. This allows the traveller to use the same combination of train, bus, taxi and so on. Market providers of business mobility cards therefore compete with the Business Card, but they do depend on the NS for a very important part of the product they offer. In order to make its own card more attractive, the NS can apply reduced rates for itself and increase prices for other market providers. For example, the NS can make the other mobility cards more expensive, or even so unattractive that their providers decide to pull the plug. When that happens, the NS has new customers for its own Business Card, based on rights it has through a direct award of the main rail network. When we look at the situation in the market, we are afraid that this is exactly what is going to happen. Nor does the Secretary of State deny in her letter that discounts for business card providers are being completely reduced. Of course, this isn't fair and D66 thinks this is undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u5	I have a small point of order. In a few weeks' time, the Passenger Transport Act will be on the table here. This includes the Business Card. I wholeheartedly agree with Mrs Van Veldhoven and support her plea. But I would like to add this, because I will not discuss it in my speech later because we are going to talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u6	This implementation is about competitiveness. I thought it was important to include this topical issue. As we have just agreed, the Secretary of State will reply in writing. We can of course involve it in the next examination of that bill, but I thought it was an important illustration to show that it does not only concern, for example, the case-Limburg and that we constantly run into these kinds of points. But, of course, it is important for Mrs De Boer to have stressed this. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State says: well, it's just a matter of two private providers, so I don't really have much to do with it anymore. Of course, that's only half the truth. The NS can do this because of its position on the main rail network, and that is what the Secretary of State is about. The direct award given to the NS by the Secretary of State is, of course, the key to this story. As far as D66 is concerned, the Secretary of State cannot remain on her hands. We therefore ask the Secretary of State: does it consider it desirable that the NS can potentially raise the rates so that it actually price providers of other mobility cards from the market in favour of its own Business Card? Is there not unfair competition? Is it prepared to look at a solution to this problem, for example in the form of a wholesale price charged by the NS for both its own Business Card provider and other market participants? In this way, you ensure that everyone can use the service provided by the government under the same conditions, namely the train on the main rail network, and you have the guarantee that there will be no indirect cross-subsidisation of the public service, driving on the main rail network, and the private service, the NS-Business Card. I still have some questions about the bill itself. On some points, we are also considering tabling amendments. We will also look at ideas for amendments that already exist with other parties so that we do not have too many things side by side. First of all, I come to the charges linked to the minimum access package, such as the charges for lack of capacity and environmental charges to keep trains quieter and cleaner. We have read that the Court is still receiving an effect of these charges, but when can we expect them? What are the Secretary of State's ambitions in this respect? Is it also a question of quieter freight trains and does it apply to foreign freighters? Who determines the level of these charges? Are they also tested and, if so, by whom? Is it true that the directive states that these charges must be assessed in terms of market capacity, efficiency, transparency and non-discrimination? Then why did these points disappear from the bill? Would it not be good to include those points in it so that we all know what these charges will be tested for? Or are those points in an AMvB? The Minister states in Article 62 (5) that further rules will be laid down on the costs to be allocated and the method of allocating the costs for the minimum access package. What further rules are these? I come to the topics of consultation and disputes. Article 68a (6) of the Bill states that the ACM must also consult users of freight and passenger transport services. That's great, but how do we make sure it's more than just consulting? Can the advice of the representatives and the reaction of the ACM, for example, be sent to the Chamber? The D66 Group also raised questions about the dispute settlement procedure in the report. We are not reassured on this point, because the answer says that the expectation is that NS and ProRail will provide for this. However, it would be nice if the Secretary of State gave us something more than an expectation, namely insurance, because what if the NS and ProRail didn't provide for that? There are a number of times when there are rules on access to services and the provision of services. However, these are rather essential points such as the provision by operators to the infrastructure manager of information on access to their services or services, the "use it, or lose it" principle and the keeping of separate accounts. There must be rules on this. Why, then, has a wording with "can" been chosen? The Directive also includes incentives to keep the price of the minimum access package as low as possible. In the directive, yes, but is it true that this is not reflected in the legislative proposal before us and if so, why not? The station portfolio is published one year in advance. A complaint procedure may be initiated after publication of any objections. There's a year for that. A year sounds quite large for a complaint procedure, but the situation in Limburg shows that this takes quite a lot of time. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore: what if the complaint procedure is not completed within that year? Will the station portfolio of the previous year remain valid until agreement is reached or will we find ourselves in a different situation? This bill adds additional tasks for the ACM. In previous correspondence between the Ministry and the ACM it is stated that any additional resources are only dealt with in the implementing legislation, but it is of course good to ask the Secretary of State if she already has an idea of this. It is, of course, not desirable that we adopt legislation now if it turns out that the ACM does not have the capacity to implement it properly. Speaking of implementation, when can we expect the various AMvBs, the General Management Measures in which some of the agreements still have to be laid down? Is the ACM also involved in the development of this or could it at least be asked for advice? The bill seems to be a good step forward towards a fairer and more transparent market, but you only know what the pudding tastes like when you taste it. In short, a lot depends on the execution. I hope that the Secretary of State will also stand for a fair market and that she will do everything in her power to offer the traveller the best train journey. I'll get to a few more details. The Secretary of State wrote in the note following the report that there could be an exception to the band of charges where there are several operators. This concerns fees for access to services and the provision of services. But what is "multiple service providers"? Is two then enough and can you really speak of such competition in two that supervision is no longer necessary at all? Or should you make that subject to the existence of real competition? The same letter also talks about the possibility of transporting domestic passengers on an international train service, which may lead to economic imbalances as long as this does not result. We have also talked about this before. A threshold of 10 million has been set, which we can all remember from the discussion on the Fyra. My question to the Secretary of State is where the 10 million came from. Was it tested by the ACM? Does that result from the directive or why is that threshold of 10 million set in another way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u7	Mrs Van Veldhoven has asked quite a lot of questions and I am also curious to hear the answers to them, but I do not hear any questions about the concerns that might be associated with this legislative proposal. I mention the point that we are on our way to a track where the laws are no longer at the service of the traveller, but above all of lawyers and lawyers, and that later mainly carriers, together with the ACM and the governments, will bring each other to justice and fight their conflict there. My question to Mrs Van Veldhoven is whether she is not concerned about this either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u8	I believe that I have started my input and ended it with what is at stake, namely that we offer the traveller the best possible service at the best possible price with as much comfort as possible. That's what D66 is all about. Then it is important that you build in the right incentives for that. One of these incentives is competition. Therefore, a strong market master is also very important. That's what we're doing with this bill. All this is done at the service of the travellers, because that is what it has to be about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u9	It should be at the service of the traveller, but looking at this bill and the way it is worked out, we have to conclude that if the parties disagree, they will have to fight it before the courts, as we read in the written reply of the Secretary of State. So we're gonna get a huge legalization of the track. Transporters are gonna sue each other, they're gonna sue ProRail, and they're gonna sue governments. My question to Mrs Van Veldhoven is therefore whether we should not go behind the traveller rather than behind lawyers and lawyers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u10	Mr Bashir sketches a contradiction that I do not quite see. I think we're in this room together for the sake of the traveller. Clear rules are important to ensure that travellers are able to work in their interests. For example, I asked: if no agreement is reached, how do we ensure that we do not fall into a black hole? That could be a moment when the traveller might notice something. It is important to me that we ensure that the train services continue to be good and comfortable for the traveller. I would like to hear in the SP contribution where the specific concerns of that group lie, because I do not understand the point that Mr Bashir is trying to illustrate very well. In my view, we work together for the traveller and this bill does not undermine that. In Mr Bashir's contribution, I would like to hear where his concerns lie.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u11	The bill we are discussing today concerns the implementation of a European directive to take steps towards a European rail and rail network. What's the vision of D66 now? Mrs Van Veldhoven talks about competition, a fair market, transparency and so on. That sounds good in itself, but does D66 also take into account that there might not be a place for the Dutch Railways in such a model? Would she mind if the Dutch Railways went under European competition and if we were dependent on the Deutsche Bahn or the French railways?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u12	The directive implemented by this legislative proposal is not about liberalising international passenger transport. A directive for this is now being negotiated in Brussels. At the moment, there is no basis to liberalise domestic passenger transport in such a way that there is genuine competition on domestic markets. If that were to happen, D66 considers it important that there really is a fair playing field. If the Deutsche Bahn or the French railways would like access to our market, the NS should be able to offer its excellent services on equal terms on the French or German market. It is a question of ensuring, through competition, that the traveller gets the best product. I would also like to give that to the French or the German traveller.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u13	My question was specific: are you prepared, in your vision of the future, to sacrifice the Dutch Railways? The Dutch Railways may no longer exist in your scenario, because they are going to die in the competition you are aiming for in the European field. Do you think that is acceptable, or is D66 always in front of the Dutch Railways? Does D66 want to be sure that there will always be a market for the Dutch Railways?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u14	Mr Madlener seems to be most concerned about the company, but I am most concerned about the traveller. What is the most important thing for the PVV: that we necessarily have a yellow-blue logo or that we have the best service for the traveler? I think the latter is the most important thing. Of course, we shouldn't be naive. That is why I have just made it very clear that when competition comes, it has to be done on fair terms. We're not crazy Henkie, so we won't say: come all here, while the NS, a beautiful company, has no chance on foreign markets. For us, however, it is not the company but the traveler who is at the forefront. I think I have heard Mr Madlener say that in an AO. I assume he will respect that statement in the course of this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u15	Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that the European Union is working towards further rail integration and is striving for a single European rail area. This promotes cross-border passenger and freight transport on rail. That is good news for the internal market. On the positive side of the legislative proposal, it also monitors the separation, albeit accounting, of the management of infrastructure and transport activities in Europe. We have already arranged this in the Netherlands in the form of ProRail on the one hand and the NS and other carriers on the other. The VVD is strongly in favour of this, because only in this context can more market forces emerge on the track. Let me just say to the left and right flank in the Chamber that we are getting more quality in transport and that has led to lower prices. I would like to emphasise the following points. For the use of other additional station activities by carriers, such as counters, waiting rooms, and the placing of payment posts, NS and ProRail will provide a website on which the conditions and rates for this so-called station portfolio will be included. The bill obliges them to provide transparency through this website. This is in itself positive, but the ACM is subject to ex post supervision of the rules and tariffs at which other carriers can use these station facilities. I believe that prior monitoring should be carried out, i.e. prior to the start of the tender procedure on the railways, also in relation to the unilateral dependence of carriers when stopping at a new station and reaching new agreements with the operator of the station, including on station activities. I therefore propose a number of amendments, together with the CDA, to achieve this in the legislative proposal. I have just understood from the interruptions of the SP that that group is very much in agreement with that. Prior supervision rather than ex post supervision, as we see today in Limburg, leads to much less judicial proceedings. That is why legal proceedings are being initiated there. It saves a lot of costs, it becomes a lot more user-friendly for the other carriers and it contributes to a level playing field. Transporters can thus achieve a better and more complete offer for the transport of passengers. Afterwards, the costs of the proceedings will be reduced. This amendment, with prior supervision of the tariffs of services and facilities at stations, also addresses the issue of the tendering in Limburg and the alleged abuse of power of the NS in this regard. Subsidiary Abellio of the NS has won the tender in Limburg. According to leaked passages from the ACM's report, the NS withheld information and delivered it too late. In itself, the province of Limburg is important, but nationally, we are tackling this problem by means of our amendments. Rail freight transport will face major problems in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u16	The problems with the invitation to tender in Limburg are not new. Last year the CDA, together with D66, tabled a motion highlighting the major problems with the level playing field, which would not be there. A report from the ACM has now been leaked, in which it is actually confirmed. What I have read is that there is actually a brutal abuse of the position of the NS. Does the VVD agree that the tender should be over? Does the VVD also consider that the Secretary of State should act immediately in order to find a solution for the parties? Or is the VVD waiting for all lawsuits first? The VVD didn't support that motion last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u17	That may have been premature, but the province of Limburg is the contracting authority in this regard. He'll have to take action. That province may provide that the tender is to be transferred, depending on the outcome of the procedure. We are dealing with the problem at national level by tabling these amendments. I hope that the PVV will support them too, because then we will be able to avoid this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u18	We need to learn lessons from what went wrong in Limburg. In this sense, I sympathise with the amendments, but we must also look at what is happening in Limburg. A tender went terribly wrong. The NS was a player. In fact, according to the leaked report, the NS itself ensured that the tender was unsuccessful and that there was no level playing field. The person responsible for the NS is the Secretary of State in this government. Does the VVD leave it at that, or does the VVD ask the State Secretary to intervene and let the NS still make a new tender, in such a way that the NS is not rewarded for this misconduct?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u19	I'm falling back on my response at first instance. Limburg is the contracting party. We are dealing with this problem at national level by means of the amendments. As a result, pre-monitoring will take place. Then you don't have these crazy procedures after all. That's gonna save you a lot. I hope that the PVV will also support those amendments. The ACM's report is not yet public. We have taken note of certain passages but we will have to wait until the ACM sends the report to the Chamber and to the Secretary of State. I'm looking forward to that moment. It is still too early to draw all these conclusions because there are still a number of procedures in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u20	Mr. Chairman. I would ask both Mrs De Boer and Mr Madlener to be careful. The content of the report that is being discussed has not yet been established at all. That is why it has not yet been published. The findings currently being discussed are not findings. They are assumptions that cannot seem to be substantiated. My question to Mrs De Boer is therefore why she relies so carelessly on sources that have been leaked and which apparently cannot bear the light of day. Otherwise, they would have been made public.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u21	These qualifications of a report by the ACM, an important supervisor on behalf of all of us, are on Mr Bashir's behalf. I can't wait for the report to officially come to the Chamber so we can assess it. But what has been leaked speaks for itself and worries me. That is why we are tabling these amendments today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u22	I don't think this is possible. I have also been informed and, as I understand it, the report has not been published, because the assumptions cannot be substantiated. If the report is still published, it is another reason to challenge it. I would therefore like to ask for care, especially when we are discussing a legislative proposal that gives even more powers to the ACM in order to be able to write more reports. If we then draw such conclusions on every report that has not been substantiated or has not yet been published, the end is lost.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u23	What is your question, Mr Bashir?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u24	The SP seems to shop selectively in the proposals and opinions that come to us from important supervisory bodies. That is Mr Bashir's choice. Again, I await the official publication of the report. To be honest, NS doesn't go against it for nothing. So there might be some truth in it, otherwise the NS would not be able to appeal it. Anyway, again, I too await the official version of the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u25	You must ask a question, Mr Bashir, that is the intention of an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u26	Then I would like to see the basis of Mrs De Boer's assumptions. She talks about a report that has been leaked, and documents that have not yet been officially published and which the ACM apparently cannot take on because they are not yet public. I would therefore like to ask Mrs De Boer to stand behind those passages and say that these things are based on truth, together with her justification.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u27	I'm okay with it. I also welcome, in the context of invitations to tender, in the case of registration as recently as those two railway lines in Limburg, that the information on the pricing of additional station facilities is known in advance through a website and that it has been approved by the ACM. I think this is a good development, which I very much welcome, especially given that the market is increasingly open to multiple tenders. We are in the process of introducing more and more market forces on rail and in public transport. That's good for the traveler. I think it is also a good development that there is clarity and transparency on these matters, where the carrier is one-sidedly dependent on the operator on that one station and has no choice because the train stops there, on the charges at which the carrier can use the provision at these stations. It seems to me to be a good development that all this is known in advance, so that the carrier can take this into account in his tender and register it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u28	I have a question about Mrs De Boer's comment that the province is in the process of making progress. What's she like, given the judge's ruling? Veolia tried to enforce through the court that the province of Limburg does something against the alleged wrong conduct of NS. However, the judge makes it very clear in his opinion that it is not up to the province to monitor and assess competition on the track, nor to regulate or simplify it by means of its tender procedure. In that sense, I wonder what Mrs De Boer means by her remark that the province is at play in this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u29	I take the liberty of interpreting this point, but I believe that it is important to ensure that contracts are awarded, i.e. tenders in general, in full width, and that this is not fundamentally a matter for discussion in the province of Limburg. I could almost bounce the ball back, because Mr Van Helvert has been in our midst for several months now, but he is from the province of Limburg. At least he was in the public administration until recently. Perhaps he will be able to give a hint of the veil, but if the judge's ruling on this specific tender is there, it is indeed up to the contracting authority, the province of Limburg, to take concrete action in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u30	Then that's clear. As far as adjusting the rules is concerned, I think that we, the Cabinet and the House of Representatives, are on the move, but Mrs De Boer has made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u31	Mr. Chairman. I want to talk about rail freight. As has just been said, this will have serious problems in the years to come, because Germany is building, at least until 2022, the missing part of the Betuwe route, along which the goods will have to be transported from ports. We must not neglect this. Fortunately, flexibility in rail freight transport and last-minute requests for freight routes are being increased by keeping more space available. That deserves a compliment, but it is in fact at odds with the next point. According to the directive travelers and freighters must indicate, at least 12 months, but in our system eight months before the start of the new year, what space they wish to claim the following year on the track. This is provided for in the Directive. Passenger carriers know eight months in advance the times and frequencies in which they want the trains to run the next year. For freighters this is just a lot more difficult, because they do not know when a ship with goods enters the port of Rotterdam. We must therefore exercise some flexibility in this regard. The VVD is afraid that the freight transport will hit an undersnowed child. For unincorporated space by a carrier, the Secretary of State wants to come up with a system of fines. An impact on this point should still come to the Chamber, but the VVD is opposed to this fine. After all, the freighters are not in control when the ships with those goods will enter the port, so a fine is really crazy. Are we also doing this to passengers? No, I'm saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u32	I understand Mrs De Boer's plea very well. We all want these freighters to be able to make efficient use of the railways, because that also means fewer trucks on the road. At the same time, we have limited capacity. Mrs. De Boer is opposed to a system of fines. What system does it propose to ensure that there is an incentive to use this space as efficiently as possible? I think we can find each other widely in the Chamber. Fines are indeed a means, but not necessarily the most popular means. What could we possibly do in Mrs De Boer's view?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u33	That is indeed a difficult task. I understand very well that by imposing a fine that encourages freighters to look carefully at the space they want to reserve on the rail. If there is no system of fines or if they do not have to pay, you might think that they might be able to claim a lot of space, which means that that space is not being used. With a fine you could deal with that, but I find that too much of a negative incentive. The directive and the legislative proposal mention a reserve levy. With a reservation charge you might force the freighters to take a good look at the space they want to use on the railways in the coming year. If they use that space on the track, you could deduct the reserve charge they have already paid from the user fee they pay for taking up that space on the track. This saves me a lot of speaking time in a moment, so you can be pleased, Mr President. If the space is not occupied, you could also look at the possibility that they transfer space to each other. The carrier who could claim that space could refund part of the reservation fee to the first carrier. That's one way to approach it. In addition to the reservation fee, you could impose a fine, but we do not do that with passenger carriers. That is where we look at the average of the year and do not impose a fine on any untaken train path. We would be able to impose fines on certain carriers in the country by now, but we do not. So we do not have to do that with these freighters. I agree with Mrs Van Veldhoven that you need to look at how to build an incentive into the system to encourage freighters to look as consistently and as carefully as possible at the space they need, so that they do not claim unnecessarily much space that endangers other freighters. I would not like to do that by means of a fine, but by looking at how you deal with the reserve levy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u34	In my view, the directive does not specifically refer to a fine, but to a sanction. You can shape that in all kinds of ways. Perhaps Mrs De Boer and I could jointly ask the Secretary of State how it can be arranged in such a way that the incentive is there, but this incentive mainly leads to maximum efficiency of use. If there are indeed any train paths that remain unused, including by passenger transport operators, it would be interesting to see how we can improve the incentive to apply for them as efficiently as possible. This, too, creates room for other carriers on the railways. Let us put that question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u35	I agree. In the coming years, in particular until 2022, we will have a huge task. We cannot use the Betuwe route, that freight line, because the third rail, the missing rail for freight, is being built in Germany. So you have to see how they can be guided between the passenger trains in Brabant, Overijssel and Gelderland. The VVD believes that you need to take measures to prevent the nuisance. We also need to look carefully at how we can best conduct this process over the next few years. If we start with penance systems, I don't think we're on the right track. In my view, therefore, we do not provide sufficient incentives for freight transport from ports. I will continue with my speech. I would have stayed with the penance system. If the Secretary of State can't agree to that, I'm considering a motion on this point in the second term. I would also like to know first what impact this has on the attractiveness of Dutch rail freight transport and what impact it has on the attractiveness of ports. I would like that question answered in writing. I think we should also know how it is arranged abroad. The focus must be on how we can make rail freight transport more attractive in the long term and how we can best guide freight transport operators throughout the next few years through the Betuwe route. The Directive allows for the completion of additional charges and reductions. I see this in the legislative proposal in the form of a possible reserve levy and environmental tax. The VVD supports a European approach to cross-border rail transport in the context of a level playing field between countries. I understand that the Secretary of State wants to make better use of the rail system through this type of charge, both for the freighter and for the passenger. I support this line. However, I think it is important that the impact on the position of freight transport should be taken into account, even in the case of this environmental tax, I have just mentioned the reservation levy and that the sector should be consulted on this. I heard Mrs Van Veldhoven say something like that. I think it is important for the Secretary of State to go around the table with the freighters on the track to see how you could actually implement that. I am concerned that it should be coordinated at European level. How many wagons are involved, for example, in non-environmentally friendly vehicles? Then what are we talking about? What is the extent of this problem? Don't we shoot a cannon on a mosquito? I'm gonna check my input. I think I have already named the remaining part in my reply to the questions raised by Mrs Van Veldhoven in the event of interruption. I think I have indeed completed my speech with the answers to Mrs Van Veldhoven's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u36	Mr. Chairman. According to the SP Group, the proposal before us and behind it the European directive establishing a single European railway area paves the way for further legalisation of our railways. We, as the SP Group, are concerned about the development that is already going on. We see that transporters always bring each other to justice. Transporters drag provinces and other governments to justice. We see that with this bill that road will continue to be strengthened. The ACM will be given more powers to monitor compliance with the railway station portfolio and user fee. Is it not true that this bill will lead to the creation of additional strings between, for example, the NS, regional carriers and public authorities? To what extent is the Secretary of State satisfied with the current commitment of ProRail and NS to achieve greater transparency towards other carriers, towards government and towards politics? Isn't that enough to ensure that there is transparency when, in addition to transparency, there is clarity towards other carriers and public authorities about the tariffs, the conditions and the trade-offs that are being made? Also with the current setup of the ACM, the SP is not content to say the least. There are often bold statements that cannot be made hard. Furthermore, the ACM did not hesitate to engage in a public debate, for example by stating that the full opening up of the rail network would benefit the passenger, while there is no justification for this. In the concession in Limburg we see again that the ACM states that the NS acted improperly in the tender. The NS disagrees with this, which may lead to a lawsuit again. That is a very bad development. This is all a distraction from what it is all about, namely a good and reliable track. In this situation, money which normally benefits the traveller must also be used for the conduct of procedures. Can the Secretary of State comment on this? How much money is involved in this? Why are we letting this happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u37	Mr Bashir made a brief comment on the ACM's statements on the behaviour of NS in the tendering procedure in Limburg. His interruption has also been about this for a while. Does Mr Bashir agree with me on the following? An organisation which we have identified as authority and which wants to produce a report must be able to produce that report independently. It does not need to discuss this with a regulated body. As a regulator, the authority should be able to take matters into its own hands. Does Mr Bashir agree with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u38	A regulator can have all kinds of findings, but one must of course be able to support those findings. It would be logical if the regulator, before he would come out with such findings, would first allow the one who is addressed to go into them. It would therefore be very logical for NS to be given the opportunity to respond to the report and to give its findings.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u39	I assume Mr Bashir knows that the NS has already been given the opportunity to react. The NS has already responded. But apparently the NS doesn't agree with what it says. If an authority, i.e. an organization that we here in the House of Representatives are to issue an authority report in which it makes a number of criticisms of a regulated, in this case the NS, this authority should be able to publish this report. Does Mr Bashir agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u40	I'm in favour of freedom of speech, so anyone can write whatever they want. However, it also seems logical to me that those who are addressed, in this case the NS, should have the opportunity to respond. In this case, far-reaching and bold statements have been made. In such a case, the judge should be able to give a ruling on the matter. I say this all the more because a majority in the Chamber, against the will of the SP, has created these opportunities. Carriers can sue each other. It is therefore very strange that Mr Van Helvert now says: everyone can do this, but the NS cannot do this. Or Mr Van Helvert says we're done. Or he says, "Let everyone do what they want." By the way, I'd like him to say, "We're quitting." I'd like parties not to bring each other to justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u41	I wanted to interrupt at first. Then I thought, "I'm gonna wait a little longer." But then Mr Bashir said something very intriguing: we stop, because that is what the SP wants. Could Mr Bashir perhaps explain again how I should see it in practice? What does "we're quitting" mean? Does the ACM stop? Is the competition stopping? What exactly is stopping?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u42	Indeed, the SP does not need competition on the track. According to the SP, the parliament oversees the performance of its own state-owned company. If things are not going well, the people's representatives must intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u43	But there is competition on the railways at the moment. I know that Mr Bashir is not in favour of this. Of course, he and the SP are free to have an opinion on this, but the reality is that there is competition on the track. We have set up a supervisor to ensure that this is fair competition. I can accuse the SP of a lot, but not that that party would be in favour of unfair competition. Then it's important that we have a strong supervisor, isn't it? Does the SP agree with D66 that we need a strong supervisor in the current situation, even if you might disagree with such a strong supervisor?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u44	Mrs Van Veldhoven actually says: if this is the case, then perhaps it is. No, of course I'm not going into that. The SP is not for competition, so we do not need a regulator who will then strengthen competition. No, let's get out of here as soon as possible. By the way, there is no competition at all, because it is foreign state-owned companies that operate here and act as if they are a market player. In fact, however, they are state-owned companies. Such parties operate here and act as if there is a free market, but that is not the case. We should therefore not pretend that there is a free market and also appoint a market supervisor who should monitor such a market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u45	I have two questions. The first is whether we can expect a proposal from the SP soon to abolish the ACM. The second question concerns the following. In fact, Mr Bashir has always expressed his disgust at procedures and such things that result from them. He didn't put that disgust on chairs or couches. Maybe that's why he agrees with the ex ante test I'm proposing with the CDA. That saves a lot of procedures. After all, there is now a question of ex post surveillance. The amendment envisages prior monitoring. This will prevent a lot of procedures afterward. That could perhaps lead Mr Bashir to vote in favour of the amendment. He may think that things should be different, but this reasoning might convince the SP to vote in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u46	The answer to the first question is no. On the second question, to which the answer is also no, I should like to go into more detail. The VVD and the CDA propose an amendment setting out a preliminary test. Then my conclusion is very clear. Mrs De Boer has apparently not been paying attention in the Chamber, which is why she has made legislative proposals that are not good. Apparently they don't work so well, so a test is needed in advance. Competition should not have been set up or otherwise arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u47	I really can't make chocolate out of the answers. Mr Bashir cut the ACM and how it works. So we cannot see any proposal from the SP to abolish the ACM. Then the SP accepts the ACM as an authority, as a supervisor on the track, but it is one or the other. It's hoof or calf. Mr Bashir then also accepted the opinions she gave. Otherwise, he must propose to abolish the ACM. I would also like to try to convince him of the wonderful amendment we are about to table. Mr Bashir may indeed disagree with everything, with all the market forces on the track. It's just that we have market forces. He could spar with his colleagues about adopting this amendment anyway, because that avoids a lot of procedures. I think he's giving the wrong answers after the argument he made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u48	Even more competition is not the solution for the railways. The solution is that we must have good railway companies which are in the hands of the government and which are controlled by governments through democratic control. If things don't go well, the people's representatives can intervene, call the responsible Secretary of State to the Chamber and tell them what needs to be done better. If you organise competition and set up a market supervisor when there is no market, you are not on the right track. There's no market. There are state-owned companies from other countries operating here. Explain to me why there is a market here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u49	Mr Van Helvert, you have already had an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u50	That was about another subject. This is about the ACM. Mr Bashir made comments on this. I would like to ask Mr Bashir very briefly about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u51	Very briefly, then. Several questions have already been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u52	Does the SP accept the ACM as referee in this game or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u53	I see no role for the ACM here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u54	That, I think, is a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u55	If so, I can only conclude that the SP does not dare to say it, but actually says: what the ACM says, we don't care at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u56	That's your conclusion. Do you have a follow-up question? I see that's not true. I would ask Mr Bashir to continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u57	However, I note that the ACM and its directors make rather bold statements. From what they have proposed, I understand that they are in favour of further liberalisation of rail. I think we have the people's office for this sort of thing. That's what the House of Representatives is about. The ACM is now in fact running a campaign to further liberalise the railways. Then we have a supervisor who makes political decisions. I wonder if we want to go down that road. Then I will deal with the CDA and VVD amendments. They want the ACM to decide what to do on the track without any prior check. Does the Secretary of State consider that this form of so-called ex ante surveillance is desirable? Does it share the view that these are ultimately political considerations that the Chamber should make? The SP also finds it curious that the ACM is given a role in whether or not to authorise international passenger transport operators to start up international rail services and also to transport domestic passengers. The SP understands that this falls within European agreements, but wonders how far the competence of the ACM actually goes. Is the ACM even about this? Does this not confer powers on a supervisory authority? Can the Secretary of State respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u58	Mr Bashir outlines a scenario that I do not understand very much about. Surely the ACM can only test on the basis of the rules we set here as Chamber? It is only a question of whether we do this before agreements have been made or whether we opt for a lengthy procedure after the agreements have been made. I still do not understand what point Mr Bashir is trying to make. He sketches here a kind of contradiction between the question of whether the ACM can check in advance and the House of Representatives. But we make the rules. We give the ACM the tools with which it can work. That's what we do. Then the question is: does she go to work before or after? I would like to hear from the SP Group a fundamental reason why it prefers that to happen afterwards rather than in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u59	I don't want either. I think Mrs Van Veldhoven should wash her ears out, because I have said several times here that I do not want supervision by the ACM at all, not beforehand and not afterwards. If there are legislative proposals here that give the ACM powers, which are again questionable, this will lead to more procedures: court cases against decisions and decisions of the ACM, court cases against governments and court cases between carriers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u60	Mr Bashir is a bit detached from reality, because there is competition on the trail, although he does not want to. The SP apparently prefers to live in an alternative reality, but there is competition on the track. Now I hear the SP Group repeating that the ACM should be abolished and that no one should be watching for competition on the railways. However, I still do not hear any argument as to why you would prefer to have a discussion afterwards rather than in advance. And I regret that, because I know the SP as a party that always supports its point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u61	Then Mrs Van Veldhoven should listen better, because I just said: I do not want them either. Can't she understand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u62	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u63	No, no, no, Mrs. Van Veldhoven. This is going to be an endless debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u64	I won't make it an endless discussion. You won't hear a question either. I simply note that Mr Bashir is unable to answer my question. Well, that's true. We shall have to deal with that, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u65	You continue your speech, Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u66	There is talk here of competition when there is no competition. We have state-owned companies operating here from Germany and France under the guise of competition, but there is no competition. In fact...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u67	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u68	... I also notice that a comparison is constantly being made between rail and the energy market. That example was brought forward by the Secretary of State. This comparison may be made on paper when it comes to competition, but not at all in practice. In the case of rail, the passenger himself is part of the journey, while in the case of electricity, the power simply comes out of the outlet and, above all, the administrative act creates competition. In addition, in the case of electricity, people can choose to switch themselves, while in the case of rail, the authorities make choices on paper with each other and eventually make the choice to hire one or the other carrier. The recent issue in Limburg is a matter of concern. It is also linked to the legislative proposal before us, because the question is: are we going to allow more legal matters on the track or not? Undoubtedly, it hurts a lot to lose a tender from the NS. Veolia and Arriva are constantly putting that party away as a non-performing monopolist. Unfortunately, the tender in Limburg has not been lost by Veolia on unfair grounds, as is stated. The fact is that there are leaked e-mails, which are not denied, unlike the ACM's report, at least that is not yet established.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. After that, proceedings and court proceedings were intended to extend the current concession as long as possible in order to earn as much money as possible. First of all, of course, this was denied. Later, the bid turned out to be too high. Finally, this was confirmed by the leaked e-mails. This was also a reason for the ACM not to immediately make the report public, because she had not done her job well. It was the Veolias and Arrivas of this world who had conspired against the NS. My question to the Secretary of State is: should we not learn lessons from this? Isn't it time to intervene instead of let more lawyers and lawyers on the trail?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u69	Mr. Chairman. We are discussing today the amendment of the Railway Act and some other laws relating to the implementation of the European directive establishing a single European railway area. The new European Directive recasts and replaces three of the earlier Directives. This concerns the development of Community railways, as it is called, the licensing of railway undertakings and the allocation of railway infrastructure capacity. The main changes in this directive and in the law are, of course, the improvement of and fair access to rail, the associated services and services, and the strengthening and extension of the position of railway market regulators. This fits in with the ambitions of the Long Term Track Agenda. In addition to the costs directly resulting from the operation of the train service, a lack of capacity and an environmental impact charge can also be included in this new law. I have a number of questions about this, in particular about the incentives that can be built in, i.e. charges or discounts. Is the Cabinet prepared to apply these incentives, and in what way and how is sustainability and perhaps capacity promoted? In short, how are these incentives actually implemented? Now they're just on paper. I have access to services and the provision of services. The Directive requires that access to services and the provision of services should be non-discriminatory. These include access to facilities necessary for the maintenance and fuel supply of equipment, the washing of trains and repair work. Requirements are laid down for the conditions of access, pricing and transparency to be applied. In the context of creating a level playing field for the efficient use of services, there are also strict requirements for access to certain services. That is where the role of the ACM, mentioned earlier this evening, will be addressed. It is being tightened up and extended as well. This is in line with an earlier request of the Chamber and with the earlier recommendations of the ACM itself. In addition, NS has indicated that it recognises the importance of transparency, so that it will be transparent about a number of access conditions and fees ahead of the Directive on services and facilities at stations. That's good. The Directive also aims to strengthen the role of the national supervisory authority by imposing requirements for independence, strengthening the tools and setting up a network of supervisors in the Member States. That's all good business. Then I come to the subject that has been the most discussed this evening: generic ex ante surveillance. The cabinet is not in favour of that. I have some questions about it. As I said, the cabinet is not in favour of more generic ex ante surveillance. Is it really in favour of more specific ex ante surveillance? Why then, on one part and not on the other part? Can that be supported a little more? In fact, we have been able to find this support in the documents. It's interesting to know what the difference between one and the other means. Everyone has an image of this, but the question is how it works in practice. Cooperation is always better and more effective than sanctioning alone. Now this law is mainly about sanctioning. But are there any aspects of cooperation in this law? Why am I asking? I think that the Dutch traveller in the public transport market, who looks like she does, needs that more than just supervision. Reinforcement of supervision can contribute to better service provision, but cooperation is particularly important given the nature of the Dutch OB market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u70	According to the explanatory statement, the aim of this directive is to create a single European railway area: "further integration of the European railways is seen as an essential part of the creation of a European internal market, including for rail." Does the PvdA support that vision of the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u71	I think we should make a distinction. On the one hand, there is a single railway area in terms of technical requirements or standards and so on. On the other hand, when Mr Madlener talks about the operation of the rail market and a single railway area where there are more market forces, calls for tenders and so on, he knows the position of the PvdA in this area. The PvdA is never in favour of more market forces on the track. The situation in the Netherlands is that the main rail network has been awarded to one party: the NS. The PvdA is very pleased with this, glad that this is in the government agreement and glad that it has been able to ensure that our national railway company will be on the Dutch track for the next ten years. That was in front of the PvdA. Why? The Netherlands has a small and complex railway network. For the traveller it is important that switching and services are done properly and efficiently. By holding such a complex network in one hand, this is the philosophy of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u72	What the PvdA brings in here sounds nice, but reality shows that in Limburg it went horribly wrong with the tender. The taxpayer will suffer from this. We're in court right now. This could be a very lingering issue. Does Mr Hoogland agree with us that we should immediately send the Secretary of State to Limburg to put things in order and to stop further court cases, that the Authority's report should be made public and that the government should take responsibility for the issue in Limburg? Does Mr Hoogland agree with us and is he prepared to support the call I will make later?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u73	I wonder if it would be wise to send the Secretary of State from Groningen to Limburg. In addition, she has already been a deputy. Is she supposed to be now? I don't think that's wise. The formation in Limburg is still under way as far as I know. But I understand what Mr Madlener means, namely whether we should interfere with the situation there. I do not think that is wise for a number of reasons. I will mention some of them. The tender is a responsibility of the province itself. There are still a number of cases under the judge. Now I know that the PVV always has less trouble judging before a judge has done so than my party, but I think it would be wiser to wait and see. And yes, I have a judgment on it, too. That may be different from Mr Madlener's: I think we should not do anything now. That is always difficult for the House of Representatives, but we have to leave it where it belongs: in Limburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u74	Mr. Chairman. I can be brief, because our position has already become clear in the interrupting debates. The PVV does not support any further steps towards a European internal market for rail. The PVV doesn't like more competition. However, we have decided on a tender in Limburg. That's exactly where things are going very badly. Therefore, let the ACM report, which has been leaked, become public as soon as possible. There is now an application for interim measures, but that does not have to take long. Let us continue the debate when we have the results and the report and we can discuss these matters here. According to the leaked findings, it appears that the tender was not fair. That is unacceptable in the eyes of the PVV. The PVV is not for calls for tender, but if we have chosen to do so ourselves, even with support in the Chamber of Appeal, it must be done 100% transparently and fairly. Otherwise, the Limburger, the taxpayer, will suffer. With all the lawsuit coming up now, it's all gonna be even more expensive. They cost a lot of money and time. That is why I appeal to the Secretary of State to go straight to Limburg when she is well-equipped and well-equipped; I understand that she is not feeling well. It must sit there with the parties at the table to see whether there is a solution outside the courts, for example whether the tender may need to be repeated. What's leaked doesn't look good. I hope that it will be possible to find a solution quickly and that we will not have to wait for further legal proceedings. I think it would be better for Limburg to find a solution quickly. Is the Secretary of State prepared to make that report public as soon as possible and to travel to Limburg in order to enter into consultation with all parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u75	Mr Madlener wants action to be taken quickly in Limburg and that we boom! In the event of a failure to comply with the obligations laid down in this Directive, the Commission shall inform the other Member States of the measures taken My question to Mr Madlener was: you yourself had government responsibility when the call for tenders on the high-speed line took place and everything was wrong with it; what did you do to ensure that the HSL started driving again as soon as possible? Then the PVV was nowhere to be found. The PvdA's proposals to do it again or differently did not support the PVV. But now you want to intervene with another government. I don't understand, because when you went over it, you didn't do anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u76	You can't blame me for something like the HSL's tender. That's a little out of line. The PvdA is in Limburg in the college that is directly responsible for the tender. There is also a PvdA Secretary of State waiting. I therefore call for action and consultation with the parties. It seems to me to be a good thing if that happens. I don't see why the PvdA wouldn't support such a call.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u77	I really don't understand this answer. You ruled yourself then. If governing, as we do in Limburg, is the criterion to be able to intervene, then you could have intervened, because you ruled along with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u78	I do not quite understand the question put by my colleague, because we have not ruled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u79	I hear Mr Madlener saying that the Secretary of State must travel urgently to Limburg. I have a question about this, because I think the problem is not so much in Limburg. That is where the tender went smoothly, with applause and flowers from the PVV in the States there. The problem is that the ACM blames the NS quite a bit. The NS is not so much in Limburg, but in the center of the country. Does Mr Madlener therefore agree with me that the problem is not so much in Limburg, but that the problem lies in the behaviour of the NS, on which the ACM has had an opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u80	Yes, I agree with the CDA colleague. So perhaps it would be better to ask whether the Secretary of State is prepared to invite the parties in The Hague to come to a solution to the situation that has arisen. However, I would like to add that a new tender cannot be excluded. If the conclusions of the leaked report are true, then the tender has gone so badly that it is not a fair situation. We need to find a solution to that soon. I agree with Mr Van Helvert and would say: invite the parties here. I am therefore counting on a plea in that vein from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u81	Mr. Chairman. A century and 40 years ago, in 1875, the Railway Act was passed. Until now, that law is still in force. After 140 years of service, if it is true that the railways not mentioned in the Decision as principal railway lines which are actually still present are covered by the old Railway Act of 1875, the law still applies to Maastricht-Lanaken up to the border, Santpoort Noord-Ijmuiden, Nijmegen-Kranenburg up to the border, and Roermond-Vlodrop up to the border towards Dalheim. Several of those lines are rusting happy at the moment. Those railway lines have become ecological connections. However, other lines are still in use. The Railway Act of 1875 was made by the Count Van Lynden of Sandenburg. King William III was then head of state. We are now five generations ahead of the head of state. Van Lynden van Sandenburg was one of the Orthodox-protestant conservatives, who sympathized with the anti-revolutionarys. So it was a very good law. That last sentence comes mainly from my colleague and not so much from me, as you will understand, Mr President. At least the law was so good that he's still doing it. This minister concluded the treaty with Belgium on the construction on the Dutch territory of the Iron Rhine, so we have been talking about this for 140 years. My question is whether this law, after a profound bow to former Minister Van Lynden of Sandenburg, can finally be repealed. The legislative proposal contains several delegation provisions and does not provide for the involvement of the Chamber in the establishment of all lower regulations based on these provisions, for example by means of a suspension procedure. Now I'm gonna go to whatever's ahead and track the market. What's going well? Let us not forget to mention this, because it is also going very well. That can certainly be said of, for example, the Valley at Barneveld. It is certainly a success under the current Railway Act. The Valley line is actually such a success that it almost succumbs to its own success and that we have to look at it again. The invitation to tender in Limburg has recently taken place. That's an example of something that didn't go so well. The ACM comes to the hard conclusion that competition in Limburg has been hampered. The ACM and NS themselves have already communicated in the media that competition has been hampered and that NS deliberately delayed the provision of information. NS reduced the cost-orientation obligation and charged commercial prices where they were not allowed and without any justification. NS brought an interim action before the College van Beroep voor het bedrijfsleven against the decision of the ACM in response to complaints concerning the tendering of public transport in Limburg. NS disagrees with the ACM on the substance of whether NS would have broken an article in the Railway Act or not. Although the decision of the ACM does not lead to a fine or an enforcement request for the time being, NS still asks the court to rule on this dispute. As long as the case is under judicial review, NS chooses not to provide any further explanation of the substance and thus leaves interested parties in the dark. That's the line the Secretary of State chooses. As long as this is under the jurisdiction of the court, it does not comment on the substance and thus leaves interested parties in the dark. In this particular case, the question is how long the cabinet will continue to pretend that nothing is going on. How long will the Secretary of State wait until NS has completed its own investigations into internal abuses? How long are we waiting for the defendant's delay tactics to be exhausted in the ACM report? When can we see and discuss the ACM's report? That is the report on the behaviour of NS that I already have on my desk and so is the Secretary of State. I refer to the report that NS and the ACM themselves have already communicated in the media. When does the Secretary of State take responsibility for resolving this? The cabinet is the sole shareholder of NS. When does the cabinet say that it is enough; we do not want this? How is it possible that a spokesman on behalf of the cabinet says that the directors are on top of NS's business, while the Secretary of State also says that she, as the main shareholder, knew nothing about NS' behaviour? Now we wait again for things to go wrong. The tender of the Zwolle-Kampen and Zwolle-Enschede lines has the same problems as in Limburg. The deadline for registration is 22 April. As a result of the case in Limburg, the CDA considers a large ex ante regulation necessary. Not only ex post, but also ex ante control by the ACM should be carried out. Moreover, there must be strong supervision, including all the powers necessary to avoid problems before they arise. There must be a strong referee with enough cards in his pocket to issue sanctions. The ACM must be involved in advance and not only afterwards, if there is not enough time left to act and a penalty charge no longer makes sense. The ACM is an authority, but it cannot act as such now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u82	Mr Van Helvert cites an unpublished, leaked report. That cannot yet be substantiated and therefore it has not yet been published. He completely ignores the undisputed, leaked e-mails that show that various transport companies, foreign state companies, are conspiring against our NS. Why is Mr. Van Helvert ignoring those e-mails? This shows that several transport companies have conspired to light NS feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u83	I was just about to start on the e-mails, so it's not like I'm ignoring these. The e-mails are also about that tender. They need to be taken, too. The question to the Secretary of State is how long we are waiting to intervene. How long will we allow all these parties to fight amongst themselves, knowing that something is not right? At this particular point we should not wait until the report is officially released by the ACM. We know that the ACM wants to release it, because that's what she's been communicating in the media. Apparently, resistance from the NS isn't allowed to do that. I find it strange that those who are regulated, namely the NS, with the rules that we have here, the regulator, the referee, can force the ACM not to publish anything that it has investigated. That's impossible, isn't it? If we call the Authority Consumer & Market an authority with a capital A, then surely it cannot be that it is dependent on the regulated one? That's the NS in this case, but that could also be Veolia or Arriva or any of those e-mails. They can't put pressure on that authority not to publish something, can they? That is why I am in favour of us taking action now, because we know that something is not going well here and we are the main shareholder of the Dutch Railways, with a public task and public money. That's why we're here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u84	We are certainly dealing with the NS, so I am glad to see the CDA group at my side in the near future if we want things to be different and better in the Chamber. I am glad to hear that the CDA Group does not say: we are not about that. My question was about those e-mails. This shows the picture that carriers have made advance price agreements. The leaked report shows that the ACM does not accept this at all. How can you say that the ACM does its job well and is an authority with a capital A, while things that cannot be accepted and that reach us through the newspapers seem to have completely escaped the ACM?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u85	Whether the report mentions those e-mails or not, I don't know. The NS has asked to make large parts of the report unreadable. That is also my point of criticism, since we are talking about it. When we asked the Secretary of State to make that report public, when it was not yet under court, it was said to be confidential. That report was not confidential, but about parts of it the NS had said that it was company confidential information and that it did not want them to be read. That piece was confidential, but on all the other matters the NS had already had the opportunity to react, as I said to Mr Bashir. The reaction of the NS that he disagrees is part of the report of the ACM. However, many parts of it have been crossed out so that we cannot see them, so I cannot say whether the report mentions them either. However, I ask the Secretary of State to draw this case to himself and to include those e-mails and the ACM's report. I agree with Mr Madlener that we must ensure that the report becomes public as soon as possible. Let's not wait until others decide it's going public. I call on the Secretary of State to draw it to him. What can we do ourselves? We ourselves can change something, now that the Railway Act is in place. That is why, together with the VVD Group, I have taken the initiative to table three amendments. One of these concerns the wide ex ante regulation that is necessary. The postal and telecommunications legislation already knows it. I do not know whether the comparison with the energy legislation made by Mr Bashir is entirely correct, but I believe that the comparison with the postal and telecommunications legislation is. There is sufficient experience with ex ante or in advance, so that can also be on the track. At present, the Authority can only subsequently monitor compliance with the Railway Act. It has different powers to do so, both of its own motion and on the basis of a complaint, through a dispute settlement. A complaint was lodged in Limburg by both Veolia and Arriva. The use of these powers has not had the effect of combating or preventing bottlenecks. It is a question of ex post surveillance, so-called ex post surveillance. This is ineffective for the purpose of monitoring, which is to make the rail market work, because clarity and transparency on the provision of services and services is necessary before a carrier can join that market. Otherwise, he would not be able to make a good estimate of the cost of drawing up a tender. This clarity can be achieved by prior monitoring. That's the so-called ex ante. This is also going to be limited with this law. The method of allocating the costs for the minimum access package is approved by the ACM by the new ex ante law. That's a start, but the CDA and the VVD too I'm very pleased to want to continue. They want a broader ex ante competence for the ACM. An example of this can be found, as I said, in the Postal Act. In the note following the report, we read that the Railway Act now has three General Administrative Measures that are being put forward. Another amendment we are tabling, on the subject of veils, is aimed at introducing the involvement of the Chamber in the drafting of regulations resulting from the Railway Act. In this way, the Court may express its feelings about the further implementation of that law. We understand that a new EU directive is also on the way. The implementation of this directive has taken a long time. Could the following be implemented more quickly in Dutch legislation, I ask the Secretary of State. For the CDA, the Long Term Track Agenda (LTSA) must be broken open at one point. In the Long Term Track Agenda, the NS should focus as its main task on the main rail network. That focus and mission are clear. After that, however, it becomes unclear and it presents problems. The NS may also compete for regional concessions and for concessions in bus and tram transport. That is an entirely grey area. As a result, according to the ACM's report, the NS caused problems in the tendering process in Limburg. The question is also how this has gone in the past with the Gouda-Alphen a/d Rijn line. Abellio, a daughter of the NS, then won the tender with miles ahead of the rest. This makes it clear once again that the LTSA is not good at this point. The grey area of the exception provokes abuse of the NS. By the way, not only does the CDA find this. I'm not just saying this because I find this myself. The 2014 Ecorys study states that "In particular, NS may have potential competition problems, as NS has an incentive to penalise other carriers in the provision of service facilities and services at stations'. So I'm not the only one saying this. Ecorys said this as a result of the situation in Limburg. Ecorys predicted it, the NS does it and the ACM concludes it. And what do we do? That's the question. We're waiting for reports to go public. We wait and wait when we do. Therefore, it is wise to reopen the LTSA and limit the task of the NS to the main rail network only. How does the Secretary of State feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u86	I am pleased that Mr Van Helvert quotes from the Ecory report. I do not know it entirely by heart, but it also states that generic ex-ante surveillance is not wise. Mr Van Helvert said that he would like to continue with a number of recommendations based on the Ecory report, including in the area of a fair market. At the monitoring point, however, Ecorys says something else. Can Mr Van Helvert provide some further arguments as to why he wants to follow Ecorys on one point and not on the other? That is what I take from the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u87	I do not agree with Ecorys' report on this point. Indeed, the Postal Act and the Telecommunications Act show that generic ex ante regulation does work well. I have quoted from the Ecory report, because it specifically exposes the pain in the situation between the NS and the other providers. Ecorys says quite clearly, quite clearly, that this situation in the Long Term Track Agenda provokes abusive behaviour. That's why I used that quote. Again, I do not agree that they say: ex ante, generic, that would not be good. As examples, I referred to the Postal Act and the Telecommunications Act. The new Rail Act also deals with the cost of operating: the railway charge that ProRail may charge to users for the compensation of its costs. The complaints about this are enormous and the competitive position of passenger rail transport, but certainly of goods, is at stake. With the CDA in the lead, the Chamber has already asked a number of questions about this. The first round of questions has been answered, but unfortunately I have to say that they had little to do with the answers. The second round of questions is still open, but today the Chamber must find something of this law. When are these answers coming? Can the Secretary of State say anything about this in her reply? The stations themselves and their ownership is another subject. Research has been carried out into the desirability or undesirableness of unbundling of NS services, i.e. rail transport, and NS stations. In doing so, the NS must constantly balance the importance of shops and travellers: do we spend the money on the shops or on the travellers? The NS has a dominant position vis-à-vis other carriers; see the problems we have already discussed in detail in Limburg. The investigation suggests that the stations should not be separated. This has not yet been a real subject of discussion in the Chamber, while the situation in Limburg sheds new light on this question and the investigation of the ACM has not yet been completed. The question is, therefore, whether this draft law prevents the unbundling of the stations, or whether it will be such that it will be more difficult to unbundle the stations than it is at the moment before the draft law is dealt with. I would also like to ask that question. So much for my input in the first instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u88	Does Mr Madlener have a question for Mr Van Helvert?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u89	No, I have a small point of order. This debate has, as I expected, largely been about Limburg. And rightly so: there's a lot of stuff going on around that leaked report. The Secretary of State will not reply in the first term, but will reply in writing. My request is to continue this debate if the report is public. I understand it's an interim hearing. So it doesn't have to take that long. I would ask you to make every effort to await the publication of this report so that we can fully involve it in this debate. I find it very difficult to have this debate without having the report. Mr Bashir more or less denies the findings. We've got them all, but okay. So I find it very difficult to go forward in this way. I would like to know what colleagues think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u90	Mr Madlener is actually asking for the continuation of the debate to be postponed until the report is made public. However, I must point out that there is some pressure on the handling of this bill. But I'm just gonna wait and see what my colleagues think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u91	I would like to make a procedural proposal to colleagues. We can ask the Registry to give us the different timelines. When can we expect the interim injunctions about and how much pressure is the time pressure? We can then discuss this at the procedural meeting and then express our preference for the follow-up in plenary to the Registry. Otherwise, we might be discussing something here that we don't know exactly which way it goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u92	I think it's hard to think of that on the spot. Short-term proceedings generally take place fairly quickly, but you cannot know in advance when exactly. That should be scheduled in court. I would suggest that we close the debate now. The Secretary of State will answer the questions put here in writing. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State when the answers will be ready. Then we know that at least for the planning of the follow-up to the debate. Is that in a week or two weeks? I understand from the Secretary of State that Easter is two weeks apart. I assume that the interim proceedings will have taken place in the meantime. So the follow-up to this debate could be planned. I think that we are still reasonably on schedule for the procedure, but I will also look at the Registrar for that. Of course, the bill has to go to the Upper House as well. So there's time pressure on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u93	Easter in between for two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u94	I think that is a reasonable proposal, but I would still like to ask the Secretary of State whether it can have the non-business confidential data made public even if the NS has not identified it as business confidential in the report, because that information is ultimately not confidential. It may be possible to discuss with the ACM whether such data can be transmitted as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u95	The Secretary of State is there, otherwise I'd say the stenogram goes to the cabinet. The Secretary of State is now present and she has therefore heard your request. It's up to her to see if she can. If it is possible for the State Secretary to be assessed, this information may be sent to the State Secretary when answering the questions. I can see Mr Hoogland still standing by the microphone. Can you accept my procedural proposal, Mr Hoogland?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u96	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u97	Thank you very much, Mr Hoogland.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-16.u98	I would like to thank Members for their input. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for hearing the first-term contribution of the Chamber. We wish her well.
