ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. People in need of care should be able to rely on the quality of the healthcare provider. However, it is still possible to start a care institution as a malicious caretaker without any quality control. This is evident from the case TCC Zorg from Almere. Just start, don't say anything to anyone, and it's done. It's as simple as possible. For months, home care and nursing services could be provided that did not meet the quality requirements and even posed a risk to patient safety by using unqualified students. These kind of cowboys need to be stopped in advance. That is precisely why the Minister has previously promised that each institution would be visited by the Health Inspectorate within four weeks. But that didn't happen because it's tricky to get around. The IGZ didn't know anything from the start and only came into action after former employees started complaining. The action was very good for the IGZ, but this situation must be avoided. What is the Minister going to do to prevent such abuses in the care and danger of patients? How's the minister gonna close this leak? How is the Minister going to guarantee that everyone will receive a real inspection visit within four weeks, as was promised last year? How to prevent unauthorised trainees from carrying out medical procedures? What is the role of IGZ in this and what is the role of the educational institution in this? What role does the health insurance company have in this? Has this care institution had the opportunity to collect money for this after it has provided poor care? This is not just a risk to a patient, but also a waste of care money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. I share Mrs Bouwmeester's impatience. Care in the Netherlands must meet the quality requirements. Patients should expect that. That is also the reason why I introduced a six-step plan just over a year ago to strengthen admission. In 2014, a pilot was run at the Health Inspectorate. Every new institution that joins the healthcare system will be visited within four weeks of the opening and after the start of the care. That pilot's been running all year. Fortunately, pilots come from lessons so that we can improve each other again. In this case, which I checked on paper, you could have expected the inspection to take place on August 25th. At that time, she received signals that the care was provided, while this had previously been denied by the provider. The inspection didn't do that immediately. She should have performed. That is what she is calling for. Eventually, the inspection took place when it took the supplier off the market in December. For the sake of clarity, I would like to point out that, as far as I am concerned, this should have been done sooner. Of course there are lessons to learn here. You usually do that from a pilot; that's good, too. Visiting new institutions within four weeks of the start of care is a new method of inspection. By the way, all the rules and all the supervisors can never guarantee 100%, but we must continue to learn. For me, there are two very important lessons to be learned. Firstly, the supervisor must always look very critically at the stories that are told to him and, if possible, check them. If there's false information, in this case you're going to spend it on nurse when you're not, then the inspection must act directly on it. That's risk-driven supervision; that's how we agreed. Secondly, the inspection will have to find a method by which it can distinguish and check whether or not care is being provided. That is very difficult in practice. In this case there was a subcontractor, where the main contractor had a very important responsibility. So what I'm going to do is talk to the inspection about how you can actually deal with the main contractor, who is contracted by the health care office and who then lets someone else do the job, if he does something like that. That is where the responsibility lies. The same applies, of course, to the healthcare office. This is a care institution, but the healthcare office pays and has to make sure that the person with whom he concludes a contract actually tests who ultimately does the work for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-5.u3	I am pleased that the Minister admits that the IGZ should have intervened earlier and that there are lessons to be learned here, because that is the beginning of the solution. The IGZ should have been there earlier, but of course there is also a leak in this case. The Minister's own CBG has given permission. That was a paper test. Subsequently, the CBG did not pass on to the IGZ that it had to check and this institution could go on for a very long time. I'd like to know from the Minister how she's going to close this leak. Internships were deployed who were not qualified to perform medical procedures. So that's very dangerous for patients. I asked about the role of the IGZ, but also of the educational institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-5.u4	Most of the settings that register and pass the CBG test do not give immediate concern. That's the big problem the IGZ has. They register, but sometimes it takes a very long time before they actually take care. If you actually take care, it's up to the inspection to check. A weakness in the system is that transition from not to giving care. Here the provider has said not to care at all. So the inspection thought, we don't have to look. But if you always trust everyone in what he says, you don't have to be a supervisor. So I think that's a leak we need to close. How do we mark that moment now? On the other hand, I'm afraid we're gonna keep stacking rules. There is also an error in practice here, because the healthcare provider, who had outsourced the care to this subcontractor, which was therefore not a good one, should have made sure of that. That healthcare provider is also liable, because it is his responsibility. So I think we should also look at how we can better deal with such a main contractor, so that he can also make sure that it is all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-5.u5	I hear a commitment about sealing the leak; thank you for that. I would like to know in a letter from the Minister when the leak is closed and how it is resolved. There are two further questions. The first is: has money been paid to this institution and will it be repaid? They've just done some bad work. This applies to the district care, the health insurance and the health care office. There is also a question about trainees. Apparently, it's possible that interns who aren't qualified are doing medical work. That's dangerous. That is a responsibility of the school, of the trainee and of the care institution. How can this be prevented?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-5.u6	You can't do that. An intern can't do this, and so there's a violation of the law, of all the rules we've made with each other. It's not a matter of changing the law. I find that obvious in this case at all. We have arranged it well on paper; now we have the practice. What we need to be vigilant about is how we can actually translate the papers so that we actually intervene and act on time in practice. For me, then, it is important if I still have to take care of something, for example that someone who is paid for care and hires someone else to deliver it can actually get a sanction from the inspection, if the person concerned is not satisfied when outsourcing that the actions are carried out by people who are competent and competent. That's where we find each other. I can write you a letter. This is a learning process. Despite the fact that I really want to tighten up the WTZi on a number of points, you can see that there are still real improvements in practice, even though we have done well on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-5.u7	I thank the Minister for her commitment. I think an important conclusion is that it didn't go well. The practice is a learning process, in which there should be room for improvement. However, we must always keep an eye on the patient's safety. We'd like to see the letter. In that letter I would also like to read whether money has been paid out to these people in health care. If so, that money should simply go back to the contributor and to people who may have paid their own contributions. The Minister can answer that question in the letter, because I can imagine that this is perhaps too detailed a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-5.u8	What matters to me is that we got it right on paper. Last year we started with a different approach, namely a method in which the inspection really checks physically once you have started. In practice, we see a number of things coming up that look like a lot on paper, but in practice it is very difficult to decide when to look now. I will explicitly include this in a paragraph in the collection letter which I write regularly. Of course, the care was paid for by the care office. That is why I see a role for the healthcare office, namely to check that what one buys is of quality. That was clearly not the case in this case. The healthcare provider may have done well, but if the healthcare provider subcontracts it and doesn't pay attention, you can see that the system offers many possibilities not to deliver what we want with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-5.u9	Mrs Bouwmeester would like to know at what time the letter can be expected. I understand from the Minister that this should work within two months. I thank Mrs Bouwmeester for her questions. The Minister can stay for a while. Mrs Leijten would like to ask her a question. She has done so on several occasions, but the Minister has failed to reply by written means. That is why Mrs Leijten has the right to ask the questions again orally.
