ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last weekend we were able to read and see on TV that anti-terrorism measures are hardly imposed on jihadists. According to the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security (NCTV), the bank balances of 15 people have been frozen and 50 people have been actively identified, as it is so beautifully called, to prevent an exit to the battle zone. That's all nice and nice, but there's a lot of ifs and buts on it. Terrorists are apparently the laughing third parties. As far as my group is concerned, there is no excuse to remain a little bit undiplomatic in times of terror, because that is what it looks like. Terrorists can just move on with their plans. I therefore have the following questions to the Minister. If you already have an action programme of jihadism, then what you think of the content; what my group thinks of it is clear why is it not used? Why was the passport taken from only 50 people or detected when 180 people had left? Why are the bank accounts frozen from only 15 people while at least 100 are eligible? Let me anticipate the answer a little bit, because I expect the Minister to say that they are far-reaching measures. Major measures? These are people who want to overthrow our democratic rule of law or at least have no heart for the democratic rule of law, because they have their middle finger on it. Why do we keep protecting them? The policy of the cabinet is, and continues to be, blindly aimed at preventing exit. I can't, because at least 180 have already left. According to my group, the cabinet is setting the wrong priorities. What should be done in concrete terms before the cabinet realizes that it should not be primarily concerned with the fight against exit, since they do so anyway? What should be done to ensure that the cabinet focuses on protecting internal borders from returning terrorists? What should happen for the cabinet to decide on administrative detention as a second best?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Helder commented on the broadcast of RTL News on the use of measures to combat jihadism. It points out that in 50 cases passports have been reported and bank balances have been frozen in 15 cases. These are two key elements of the Action Plan, which also contains 38 measures. They are important and, as Mrs Helder herself put it, far-reaching measures. So the cabinet doesn't hesitate to use it either. In order to achieve this, a legal basis is needed. As Mrs Helder knows, there has sometimes been a court ruling which, for example, has flagged back the withdrawal of a passport. That's the kind of situation you want to avoid. In addition, it is always a consideration at what time you are using what measure. After all, you're also investigating and prosecuting. In this context, it may be wise to use a measure at a slightly different time. This does not alter the fact that, where necessary, the Cabinet does not hesitate to use these measures. In this context, I have today given a law with additional measures in consultation: the Administrative Measures Act, which is part of the jihadism action plan. This includes, for example, additional measures relating to an exit ban, a notification requirement and the possibility to take identity cards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-3.u3	I quote what the Minister just said: they are important elements. As I have just indicated, the conclusion is that they apparently do not work. These important elements are important on paper, but in practice they do not work. Let me quote what has been said on behalf of the AIVD and the Public Prosecutor's Office: it is difficult to get rid of these two important elements. What is the Minister going to do to ensure that these important elements do work? My group's proposal is still to close the borders, because that is how mopping with the crane is open. I would like an answer from the Minister to the question of how he will make the elements important to the cabinet work in practice. The Minister spoke about the legislative proposal that is in consultation, but that too is aimed at countering the exit. The Minister may call that an important element, but we can already assume that this will not work. Perhaps the Minister would like to comment briefly on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-3.u4	If a measure has been applied 50 times, you can't say it doesn't work. In a rule of law, I think it is right that careful action should be taken to prevent this from passing the judicial test. The investigation and intelligence services always consider the instruments they will use at what point in time, in the interest of detection. That too seems to me to be in the interest of defending safety in the Netherlands. It would be a shame if a bird flew while he was in the picture, and we could have caught that person if we had waited for a measure. I consider that to be very logical considerations in the context of prosecution. Passport signs shall be used both for the prevention of exit and, where necessary, for detention on entry. They are therefore measures which can be applied in both places.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-3.u5	I note that we are not making much progress, but the discussion will certainly continue. I thank the Minister for his answers. I would remind you once again that the AIVD and the Public Prosecutor have said that they are having difficulty getting rid of the measures. I assume that the Minister will consult these bodies before he formulates an action programme. We have that action programme. These two organizations find it difficult to cope in practice. They don't even get to the judge's test. I appreciate the answer, but it is not really the beginning of an answer. So we are definitely going to talk about it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-3.u6	We will undoubtedly be talking about it, if only because the Chamber receives a further progress report at the end of March. Of course, there will be consultations with the Public Prosecutor's Office and with the other services.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-3.u7	We can consult all kinds of legislative proposals and come up with all kinds of plans, but in the end those countries in the local communities have to work on them and the local authorities have to work on them. Recently, our group visited a medium-sized municipality. I'm telling you, you scared the shit out of me. One had no idea how to deal with things. One had no idea what should happen if someone comes back from Syria and how to take that person. So we can come up with great plans, but I think it is very necessary now to contact municipalities and ask them if they know what to do and if they know what instruments are at their disposal. Is the Minister prepared to do this, perhaps through the VNG? It really needs to be rushed. That action programme has been around for so long. We have made a lot of plans here, but they really need to land in the local communities now. Does the Minister intend to take action on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr Segers is right to say that municipalities should be well informed of the measures they can take. Of course, I don't know which city he went to work in and where this was playing. However, there is regular contact with the municipalities concerned. There is also a special consultation for it. I take Mr Segers' signal in such a way that we must continue this intensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thanks to the SP and the other opposition parties, we are now finally investing in security. There is a lot of investment in the AIVD and only a little bit in the municipalities. However, these municipalities have a very important role to play in the reception and deradicalisation of people who wish to travel or return. That ball's in the municipalities. A lot of municipalities don't know exactly what to do with those boys and girls. They're reinventing the wheel. Does this new minister not think that this is also a responsibility of the national government? Why is it left to the municipalities to deradicalize? Why is there so little financial support for it? This case concerns all Dutch. That is why there must be a national policy, with national responsibility and national funding. Why doesn't the government say so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr Van Raak suggests that the fight against jihadism is unilaterally deposited with the municipalities. I don't recognize that image. The measures I was discussing with Mrs Helder are typically national measures. However, there are also measures that require important local input, for example from municipalities. Administrative measures are always taken in close consultation with the municipalities. Mr Bussemaker has just announced plans to avoid radicalisation at the front, in education. That is not a question of "shutting off," just to use Mr Van Raak's term, but of realizing very well that the approach to jihadism does not happen with one button, but that at the beginning you must avoid radicalising young people and then you have a whole chain of measures. It is not for nothing that 38 people are there to intervene in the chain at any time. In doing so, the cabinet takes full responsibility; it was the reason for the action plan. We also ask for the involvement of the municipalities. They're getting involved in it, too. I fully agree that they must be constantly aware of the resources they can use and how they can do so in a specific case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-3.u11	I would like to point out to the Minister that this weekend there was the terrible report in the newspaper that a mother took her two underage children to ISIS territory. So that could have happened. I would very much like the assurance of this Minister that all the measures mentioned by Mrs Helder at the time will be used not only for jihadists themselves but also for parents. We must not only protect young people, but also consider, for example, whether parents' passports can be taken; there is a whole list of possibilities. Does the government have sufficient vision not only of the jihadists but also of the parents who want to take their children to war?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mr Recourt understandably refers to the touching report about the mother with children from Maastricht who has been travelling. The woman in question traveled with a forged passport. She was spotted as a person. For that reason, she deliberately looked up the loopholes and found them. I have, of course, thought for a moment what measures might have been more helpful in this case, with the knowledge of today. There is a reporting obligation in the law that is now before us for consultation. For example, in the case of a person who is known in the community as someone who might be able to leave, you could make sure that the person remains in the picture. That is why I think it is really worth including the additional measures in legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-3.u13	I'd still like to ask you about the freezing of assets. There's tension on the exchange of information between the AIVD and the State's Attorney's Office. This has to do with the fact that criminal matters can go over the top if the Public Prosecutor takes action too quickly. Now I can imagine that in all kinds of crimes, except for jihad-travelers. If these people are travelling out, it should be standard practice for the State's Attorney's Office to conduct an investigation. Perhaps the Minister could shed some light on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr Oskam established a relationship between freezing assets and travelling. The freezing of a credit is published in the Official Journal. So that's typically a moment when someone with a name and a name gets known. In the context of the investigation, you can indeed consider whether you want to do so at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-3.u15	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mr Oskam, would you like to ask your second question from this Question Time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-3.u17	No, not that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-17-tweedekamer-3.u18	Then I would like to thank the Minister for his answers and for coming to the Chamber.
