ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u1	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the PVV Group, I express our horror at the terrible acts of war in Paris last Friday and, of course, our condolences to all the direct and indirect victims of it. We must call the beast by the name: this war is called jihad, the holy battle of Islam against those who think differently. Not we seek that war, Islamic State seeks that jihad war with the free world and against the western norms and values of freedom and equality. Whether we like it or not, at least they want to lead the jihad against us; we cannot avoid it. This means that Islamic State must not only be tackled by the tail, in Iraq, but above all by the head, now still in Syria. Does the Minister see this? Is the government now ready to demonstrate in the coalition the willingness to attack the Islamic State from the sky wherever necessary? Or does she prefer to bomb the Russians who, as far as I am aware, are causing excessive civilian casualties? Minister, we can do this much better and more carefully. The battle in Syria and Iraq is mainly an inter-Islamic battle. This struggle has been greatly fueled by outside interference, mainly from other Islamic countries: Iran on the one hand, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Qatar on the other. This applies not only to Syria and Iraq, but also to Libya and Yemen. Turkey has also played a dubious role, at least as far as Syria and Iraq are concerned. It is not to be digested by the PVV that the support of Islamic fighting groups in Syria and Iraq can continue unimpeded and undisturbed. For example, Saudi Arabia is still being addressed by many Western countries, including the Netherlands, with velvet gloves. We gotta get those gloves off! This concerns not only the Islamic repression on the Arabian Peninsula, but also the nasty role I have just outlined in that fight in Syria and Yemen. Harmful relations as they are now maintained with the Saudi regime are detestable and not acceptable. Our government is now speaking to the regime in Riyadh at whispering and with flour in its mouth. That's gotta stop. Be clear against and about those war fighters. Is the Minister prepared to do so? The PVV is opposed to arms supplies to countries that are members of the Organisation for Islamic Cooperation. That seems to me to be the best solution. If the government wants to safeguard Dutch interests in the world, it must not be misled and blackmailed by the Turkish potentate Erdogan. What should have happened years ago is now more urgent than ever. The government must take a clear stand against Turkey's increasingly anti-democratic and Islamic development. If Turkey gets criticism, it reacts like a wasp stabbed. With those long toes, there is also no talking about Erdogan's growing power. As far as PVV is concerned, it is high time that our government distanced itself more from this country, which seems to have nothing to do with our Western values. This means, in concrete terms, stopping the accession negotiations to the EU, strictly enforcing the visa requirement and not transferring billions to Turkey either. Turkey does not act as an ally, but often as an opponent. Consider that country that way. I repeat what I said in the debate on the defence budget: Turkey must be called a watchdog in NATO. The violence of the Palestinians in Jerusalem, Judea and Samaria has been very widespread in recent months, with many casualties. The PLO regime has clearly driven this and is responsible for it. The cabinet states that it will remind both Israel and the Palestinians of their responsibilities, but I note that Israel is only defending itself and that responsibility does not need to be pointed out by the Netherlands. On the contrary, the government should support Israel in this. The government should also immediately stop the Dutch contribution to the Palestinian entity through the pot of development aid. In addition, the oil crisis created by the Muslim countries in 1983 must be removed from our embassy from Jerusalem to Tel Aviv. Why doesn't the government do that? Of course our embassies have to go!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u2	I was wondering if Mr De Roon would agree with me that parliamentarians could call on the government to do something, but that they also have the responsibility to express their opinion. This also applies to high-ranking persons from other countries, or from the Palestinian Authority. Why was Mr De Roon himself not present at Mr Abbas' visit when he was in The Hague? In that case, he could have addressed him himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u3	I have no message at all to the Palestinian entity and to the so-called government and its so-called president. I don't need to talk to them at all. It's a lousy club, and we don't have to do business with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u4	Here he comes again: if we do not have to do business with it, how can Mr De Roon expect the government to address the Palestinian entity? How does that work in Mr De Roon's head?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u5	If Mr Ten Broeke had listened carefully, he would not have heard me say that. Because I didn't say that. I did not say that the Palestinian entity and the government of Abbas should be addressed. I didn't say any of that. Mr Ten Broeke can put that in my mouth, but it has simply not been said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u6	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u7	EU labelling of products from Jerusalem, Judea and Samaria. We still know how to label Jewish products from the Nazi era. Labeling is not about misleading consumers. That is the label on it, I say to Mr Ten Broeke, but there is another agenda behind it: an anti-Jewish, anti-Israeli agenda. No wonder, therefore, that Islamofascist Hamas welcomes the EU labelling. The labeling will not help, but only increases the tension. It's oil on the fire. Do like Hungary and reject the anti-Jewish labeling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u8	I do not believe that Mr De Roon and I will soon agree on the labelling guidelines. Nevertheless, I would like to make a point of calling it an anti-Jewish action. What's he basing that on? This has nothing to do with the Jewish faith, does it? It concerns the distinction between the State of Israel and the occupied Palestinian territories, specifically the illegal settlements. We can very well disagree on this, but I do not think it is right to use the word 'Jewish' in this regard. That's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u9	I can only observe that the spokesman for the Labour Party is still wearing pink glasses when it comes to the Palestinian entity. The Palestinians are the ones who love this. I referred in my speech to the cheer of the Islamofascist club Hamas about this labeling. If Mr Servaes simply does not want to see and acknowledge that, that is very unfortunate, but it is true that they are concerned about the Jewish people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u10	I will try one more time, because Mr De Roon is barely answering. He only goes into the political context. I think we should be clean in this house. If you're criticizing Israel, you're talking about Israel. If you criticize people who think that you should appeal to Israel more strictly, that's fine too. But let's just talk about the country and not put it in a religious context. I find that extremely regrettable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u11	Israel is the land of the Jews. Mr Servaes cannot like that, but that is the political and legal reality. It's reality in every way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u12	I think Mr Van Bommel was earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u13	I was just as kind to Mr Sjoerdsma, but that is confusing. I won't do it again. I wanted to put a question to Mr De Roon about labelling. What's his point? Is he against labelling in general? Should the country of origin no longer be mentioned on products, or is it only against labelling in this particular case?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u14	Today I am talking about this labelling of products from Jerusalem, Judea and Samaria. If Mr Van Bommel asks me if I am against labelling in general, I say no. It concerns the label for these products from Jerusalem, Judea and Samaria. If the label were to say "from Israel," it would be fine as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u15	That answers my question. You are therefore opposed to this labelling, but you seem to think that other labelling is desirable, in accordance with European legislation and directives. Why do you make that distinction just for this labeling?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u16	Because the Jewish State runs in front of me from the Mediterranean to the Jordan River. In that case, no label other than "Israel" is required.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u17	Mr Servaes rightly said that this is about the distinction between Israel and the occupied territories. However, Mr De Roon says: this is about anti-Jewish. I therefore ask Mr De Roon whether he thinks that everyone who is in favour of this labelling directive is anti-Semitic.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u18	Of course, I cannot answer that question, because I cannot look into the hearts of the people who are before this. I only note that all those who applaud this labelling, such as Islamofascist Hamas, are simply doing so because they are against Israel and the Jewish State and the Jews, at least in the area where they are now located and those Jews have now established themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u19	Then I can only conclude that you are doing rather distasteful politics about a directive that is actually about informing consumers correctly. You take the measure not only of the European Commission, but also of all parties in this Chamber as well as of the cabinet, and accuses them of being anti-Jewish. I'm taking a strong, strong distance from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u20	I have just said that I cannot look into the hearts of all those who think this labelling is a good thing, and I do not want to speak about it. I didn't do that either. I did point out, and I insist, that those who dislike the Jewish people think that this is a wonderful tool and that they are happy to hide behind the story that this is only for fair information to consumers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u21	It happened in a flash, but I heard Mr De Roon make a link with the Nazi period in the proposal for labelling products in the occupied territories. Can Mr De Roon briefly explain to me exactly what he means by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u22	In the Nazi era there was a period in which shops of Jews, i.e. Jewish shops in Germany, were smeared with all kinds of lyrics like "Kauft nicht bei Juden." That is in essence the background of all those who for anti-Semitic reasons find this whole labelling story a good story. That is precisely why I think it is so foolish of all the groups here who support this labelling policy, but perhaps they do not have the intention of getting involved in this. Either way, you should say, "I don't want anything to do with this." Just let that whole story go and stop whining about the labeling of those products. But it has happened, and I think that our government should simply distance itself from it, just like the government of Hungary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u23	I think this is way below par. I find it downright insulting for people who, on democratic grounds, are proposing the labelling of products from illegally occupied territories, to establish a link between them and one of the worst regimes in human history. I find this unbelievable!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u24	Mr Grashoff is obviously deaf as well, because I have already said twice, and I am telling you for the third time that I cannot look into the hearts of all those people who are behind that labelling story. I do not therefore give a general opinion on this, nor on the people, Mr Grashoff and other politicians in this Chamber who think that is a good idea. I don't do that, and I didn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u25	I think it's a good thing you distance yourself from that. It was not clear to me as President either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u26	I have said what I said, and I have therefore distanced myself from all the suggestions made by the interrupters. So I've distanced myself from that. That's the end of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u27	Mr De Roon says that he cannot look into the hearts of all those who are in favour, but at the same time makes a very firm statement as to what the background to this labelling is. I can't really reconcile those two things. For example, he cannot rule out the fact that a number of people who are in favour of this labeling have a Jewish background themselves. That's why he put those people away right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u28	I didn't rule that out either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u29	In any case, I have noticed that you knowingly move a group, while people from that group can also be in favour of labelling. What is it really worth to you to get rid of those who have motives other than consumer motives? You can do that by pleading with me to draw a line and label all areas where there is no clarity as to who exercises the administration and on which the European Commission has judgments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u30	If that miserable plan of labelling the products from Jerusalem, Judea and Samaria continues, if our government is to carry them out, what Mr Ten Broeke says is the least that must be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u31	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u32	We have talked about the general lines of foreign policy. It's always good to look at individuals. I would like to talk to the Chamber and the Minister about Dutch suspects who are sometimes prosecuted abroad, without knowing exactly where, when and when they will be tried and when they will be able to face their judgment. There are many examples. Think of Mr Poch, who has been in prison for six years, while it is still unclear when a judge will judge him. Last few weeks there were reports in the media about a Dutchman stuck in Cyprus. Well, I'm sure he's not in jail, but he can't leave the country. He's out of money. He's emotionally ruined. The State Department didn't say anything about it at first. If the family contacts the State Department, nothing will happen. Only when the media are turned on will the Foreign Office take action. Exactly what it does, I don't know. It is only one concrete example, but you can of course extend it to other cases. In any case, I would suggest to the Minister that he take action as soon as something like this occurs. For this matter, I would like to give the Minister the following consideration. We have the possibility, under European legislation, of Cyprus making a request to the Netherlands to take over the criminal proceedings against that man. It hasn't done that so far. The Minister can't interfere in the procedure there. I get that. However, he can say through the diplomatic channel that the Netherlands is open to such a transfer of criminal proceedings, that our government is prepared to take over them. As far as PVV is concerned, it is unacceptable that diplomats should be able to deal with traffic fines and other offences without penalty. In the city of New York, license plates of persons with diplomatic immunity are not renewed with three or more unpaid fines. The Minister himself has also indicated that he is in the stomach with these unpaid parking tickets from diplomats. As far as PVV is concerned, action must also be taken. How does the Minister intend to implement a system for diplomats such as in the city of New York, in which diplomatic license plates are not issued indefinitely or for the full duration of the placement of the diplomat, but should be renewed every year? Diplomats who break traffic tickets can then be removed after some time, because their validity is not extended. I'd also like to know what's going on with the diplomats' drivers. I think they are often Dutch. So they don't have diplomatic immunity. Is there any way to contact them about these traffic violations? Is the Minister prepared to have that checked out? It is also possible to declare a diplomat persona non grata under the Vienna Convention. I understand that this is a far-reaching measure, but we want to know how the Minister sees it. What if traffic offences, traffic offences, are committed by diplomats? They are therefore diplomatically inviolable. In what cases is it conceivable that this diplomat should be declared a persona non grata? Think of cases where this has occurred several times. Surely we should not want to maintain the diplomatic status of diplomatic recidivists in the Netherlands infinitely and for all types of crimes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u33	Mr. Chairman. It was a Friday night like any other. Soccer fans, nightlife audiences, music lovers closed off the week together and started the weekend. It was a Friday night like any other, which was rudely disturbed by a cowardly act of terror. 132 people died. Parisians, expats, students, journalists, engineers, entrepreneurs, they were all innocent victims, people who, as President Hollande said, were guilty of living. It was 24 hours of terror by Islamic State, which started Thursday night in Beirut, which continued Friday morning in Baghdad and which ended Friday night in Paris. Our thoughts go out to the family and friends of the victims. I mentioned Beirut, Baghdad and Paris, and I have not even mentioned the attack on the Russian plane. This shows that Islamic State stands for life, whether Christian, Muslim, European or Arab. In doing so, this terrorist group is a major threat to the Netherlands, Europe and the whole world. Some claim that these attacks show that Islamic State would gain strength. Others say that the group only struck in our inner cities because IS is losing ground at our external borders, such as Mount Sinjar and a strategic highway. How does the Minister see this? In his opinion, how has IS' strategic position developed over the past few months? It is certain that the attacks are meant to sow fear, to divide us into a "we" and "they" and to alienate us from each other. However, there is only one division and that is: the fanatics versus the rest. Whatever makes it clear, Mr Ten Broeke has already said that there is no fraternité, no liberté and no égalité without sécurité. That is why we fight and bomb Islamic State and that is why our soldiers train the peshmerga and the Iraqi Special Forces. It is a battle that we must intensify, first and foremost politically. That always sounds buttery but it is absolutely necessary, also financially. I'll come back to that later. Over the last few decades, we have been the victims of a cowardly act of terror. After 11 September 2001, President Bush of the United States proclaimed the War on Terror, a war that unfortunately did not lead to a victory over terror. In fact, perhaps we should note that the presence of terrorist groups in the belt around the European Union has only increased. That raises the question of what to do now. What lessons do we draw from the past 14 years? The French President Hollande, who faces a huge challenge, answered this question by claiming that France was at war. Our own Prime Minister, who was very firm earlier in not taking over that terminology, was now involved in the slipstream: the Netherlands was also at war. I ask the Minister if he agrees with Prime Minister Rutte. Is the Netherlands indeed formally at war? What does that mean? We also see that President Hollande is appealing to Rule 42. He is asking for solidarity, and that of course makes sense. The question is, however, what this solidarity means. Yesterday, the Minister of Defence also spoke about a Dutch military contribution, and I would now like to ask the Foreign Minister to clarify this. What contribution is that? I ask this because for me one of the lessons of the past 14 years is that we must try to stay away from great rhetoric that we cannot live up to. A second lesson, in my view, is that caution is needed in the question of who we are entering a coalition with and under what conditions we are doing so. Assad is not part of the solution. That's not just rhetoric because of the civilian casualties that Assad makes himself. Assad is also one of the main reasons that jihadis join Islamic State. This man also still buys oil from this terror group. What applies to Assad also applies to cooperation with Russia in Syria. That cooperation will have to be done, given Putin's military struggle with advanced anti-aircraft missiles in that area. However, cooperation will yield nothing as long as Putin keeps his hands above the barrel-bombing tyrant Assad. The third lesson is that there must be agreement on a political strategy. Some parties in this Chamber are laughing about it and consider it "soft" and less important. It is therefore a political strategy for Syria in which the Syrians themselves are involved and in which the coalition agrees on who is friend and enemy. Without that strategy and as long as Turkey remains obsessed with fighting the Kurds and the YPG continues to bomb in Syria, and those are our ground forces in the fight against Islamic State, it will be damn hard to tackle Islamic State effectively. I'd like a response from the Minister. The consultation in Vienna last weekend was encouraging, although it is only on paper. As far as my party is concerned, every step closer to a political strategy also brings military action closer. It is also high time that we decommission Islamic State financially, that we cut off its funding. The Chamber has often insisted on this. And yes, there is a working group in that great coalition but the results so far are really lean. The revenues from oil and art trade are being tackled, but I still hear credible sounds that Turkey would decrease oil from Islamic State. Is this known to the Secretary of State? In addition, Islamic State receives suitcases of money from individual financiers from the Gulf States and Saudi Arabia. As we give UNICEF, they donate to Sunni terrorist organisations. It is unheard of that this can still be done with impunity. What more can the Cabinet do at EU level to identify these individuals and, if they have been identified, freeze their financial assets and impose their travel bans? I would like to hear the Minister's response to this. I just mentioned Saudi Arabia. My group has serious concerns about Saudi Arabia's role. It destabilises Yemen, it commits war crimes, it blocks humanitarian aid, it throws cluster bombs and, as a blow to the flame, it also blocks an independent investigation into the violence in Yemen. As long as that is the case, my group wants the Netherlands and the European Union to stop supplying arms to Saudi Arabia. Prime Minister Cameron of the United Kingdom has already threatened to do so. Is the Minister prepared to argue for this at European level? We know: speaking is silver and silent gold. I see Mr Ten Broeke coming, so I'll wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u34	If it's a short sentence, you can finish it too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u35	Silence is gold, Mr. Chairman. I'll hold on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u36	This is a good time to make the break. My question to Mr Sjoerdsma concerns the Article 100 letter which many of us have supported. At least we supported that letter and so did Mr Sjoerdsma and his group. That letter states that the purpose of the Dutch military action is to stop the advance of ISIS and to reduce ISIS and preferably stop it. Two phases are distinguished. Should I understand Mr Sjoerdsma, after his criticism of the possible retention of Assad, as follows: a military effort by the Netherlands is dependent on a transition arrangement or transitional arrangement for him and the D66 Group, in order to resolve the position of Assad?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u37	Mr Ten Broeke quite rightly refers to the Article 100 letter. That letter has been widely supported and, with it, the entire Chamber, with the exception of perhaps a single party, has said that the objective of this military mission is to reduce and, where possible, destroy Islamic State. The problem with Syria is that I have just emphasised that there is no political strategy to do so. The current Syrian president Assad operates in his country by throwing barrel bombs on bakers, in schools and in residential areas. I note that in this way he is only recruiting jihadis for Islamic State. So I also note that a fight against Islamic State cannot be effective as long as President Assad can continue with that policy. And I'm afraid he'll continue with that policy as long as he's there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u38	I agree with Mr Sjoerdsma that Assad's performance and vessel bombs are co-acquiring for jihadists. They're even very recruiting. But ISIS existed before that. ISIS was there before the vase bombs. The number of vascular bombs has increased since 2013, when we haven't maintained that red line. The vascular bombs can now be used almost undisturbed, because Assad has got another bomb force behind him. It is now Putin's cluster bombs and Assad's vascular bombs that provide large flows of refugees. They were able to operate in this way because they were dived into a military vacuum. I'll come back to my question. Our military goal is to reduce ISIS. Mr Sjoerdsma even calls it "destroy." That word is not in the Article 100 letter, but I want to sympathize with him. Does Mr Sjoerdsma and his colleague in the First Chamber think that we should look beyond Assad to find a solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u39	I would love nothing more than to see past Assad. Looking beyond Assad means, as far as my party is concerned, we're getting close to a peace solution for Syria. Looking beyond Assad means that one of the blocking persons, who has the most interest in the violence in Syria, disappears. Does that also mean we shouldn't talk to Assad? Of course not. We should talk to him. You can't escape that in any way. Let me put it this way: if you want to move the enemy away, you do so by military means and by negotiation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u40	Proceed, Mr Sjoerdsma. No, Mr Ten Broeke. Okay, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u41	Earlier this year, Mr Sjoerdsma compared my group chairman, who also indicated that there was probably a need to speak with Assad, with Dennis Rodman, who was so far... and with Filip Dewinter in the Volkskrant. Now he also believes that there should be a dialogue with Assad. His colleague, the very experienced diplomat, Mr Herman, has already said this. Does Mr Sjoerdsma not regret that remark with retroactive effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u42	This was a very small remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u43	No. The basic attitude that Mr Ten Broeke is talking about is still different from that of my party. Mr Ten Broeke and his party say that, for reasons of stability, we must continue to do business and talk to these kinds of regimes; perhaps we should even maintain them. That's a different starting point than my party's. The D66 Group says: yes, sometimes you are forced to talk to these people, but you are not forced to keep these people in the saddle. That's a big difference. I do not recall comparing Mr Ten Broeke's foreman with Mr Rodman's foreman. I do not know Mr Zijlstra's basketball skills. I certainly do not take back what I said about the world view of Mr Ten Broeke's party. I would have stuck to the verdict: silence is wrong. The telling recent Amnesty International report on Saudi Arabia details with painful precision what human rights violations are taking place in that country. I agree with Mr Van Bommel's appeal to the Dutch Government and we have previously tabled a motion for this to be more public, more visible and clearer in her position on human rights. On this point, too, I totally disagree with Mr Ten Broeke, who cannot choose himself if he is asked what he does not want to do anymore with regard to Saudi Arabia. I say that we must at least do so. I would like a response from the Minister on this point and on whether there is sufficient human rights capacity at the Embassy in Riyadh to do so. Islamic State is not the only threat to the European Union, because on the east side the Union is challenged by Russia. Russia annexed Crimea, Russia destabilised East Ukraine, Russia torpedoed the MH17 tribunal, Russia armed Iran and Russia held Assad over its head. The Minister was angry and irritated about Russia's attitude earlier this year. He wants a balance between the balled fist and the open hand. He calls it "no business as usual." I note, however, that gas policy in the Netherlands is still gaining from geopolitics. For the cabinet, it is unknown where the gas will come from in the future. Where is the previously promised geopolitical energy strategy? Why is the cabinet not working on sustainable alternatives and on reducing Russia's dependence? Is the Minister prepared to agree to table with market participants to reduce imports from Russia over the next five years? The problems at our external border call for a truly functioning border and coast guard. However, I have to say that Frontex is still too much of a bulldog operation and too much dependent on the ad hoc contribution of Member States. Therefore, Frontex cannot deliver what it needs: adequate border and coastal surveillance, including rescue capacity. My group would like to see this European Border and Coast Guard get there, with its own resources and its own people. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. It is good to see that the Minister strengthens diplomacy on the east and south flank, thanks to motions from the GroenLinks and D66 groups. However, I wonder why there is only a very limited amount of money added to the Stability Fund and the Human Rights Fund and why this money is only added for one year instead of structuralally. Can the Minister explain why this reinforcement does not become structural? This seems necessary to me. On the eastern flank we also have Ukraine, literally translated: the border country. It's a hinge between East and West. It is now up to the Dutch people to determine whether we are increasing trade with Ukraine and whether we are moving in the right direction, under Putin's yoke. That is why we, as a party, are defending the peasantry for the referendum. We must stand for this treaty as a political party. We should not be afraid and not look away. However, the cabinet remains silent. I see that EUR 5 million is being spent on campaigns for a UN seat, but that there will be no additional resources for announcing the cabinet position on this treaty. Can the Minister explain why this was chosen? I would like to endorse what Mr Van Bommel said about the need for an investigation, as it turns out that post-colonial events in Indonesia were not occasional but structural. Finally, I would like to highlight one more point: Dutch education abroad. There are 200 schools abroad where Dutch children who have left abroad with their parents retain their connection with the Dutch language, the Dutch culture, our history and our values and standards. That's crucial. This is also an investment in them, an investment in people who often return to the Netherlands. I note that the money for these schools is running out in 2017. There are 200 schools, and if that money is used up, a third of these schools are likely to close down. The Minister may say that this should be met with the parental contribution. However, it is already exorbitantly high. It is between €800 and €1,000 per child. This concerns €3.4 million in 2017. I ask the Minister, in view of the importance we attach to our Dutch abroad, to find a solution for this 3.4 million, if necessary unforeseen from HGIS. I ask him to find a solution to prevent these schools from closing down. That would be a waste forever.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u44	Mr. Chairman. Less than a year after the bloody attacks on Charlie Hebdo and a Jewish supermarket, Paris has once again become the target of a cowardly terrorist attack. 129 people were killed and 350 people were injured. A day before Paris, 43 were killed and 200 injured in Lebanon. In both cases, ISIS has claimed the attacks. My group, too, shares and prays with the relatives and the victims. After this brutal attack, too, some people have raised the question of whether we should close the borders now for the refugees. That is a question that cannot and cannot remain unanswered. The Christian Union believes that there should always be room for our neighbors who flee war and violence. They fled from the same bombs, the same bullets, the same fear as in Paris, Lebanon, Egypt and also Russia. We can and must never close our eyes to that. I'd like to hear from the Minister if he agrees. At the same time, we must remain alert to people entering with the wrong intentions. To this end, we need to speed up the registration of refugees and make sure that they are not a threat to our security. This must be done at the EU's external borders, but as long as this does not happen, the Netherlands must speed up doing so here too. To this end, I ask the Cabinet whether the detailed report on the Temporary Act on the fight against terrorism can now be sent to the Chamber. That bill includes a reporting obligation for returned Syrians. My group would very much like to make that part a reality here. Can that report be sent to the Chamber as soon as possible? Is extra human power now being released to register? After all, it cannot be the case that we have to wait for weeks to register. I'm here to talk about the fake passports for the Netherlands. We must prevent jihadgoers from reaching Europe. War correspondent Harald Doornbos has previously drawn attention to the fact that it is simple and easy to just have a false passport created. People can travel up and down to Europe and Syria. We have to fight that with everything we can do. What concrete measures can the cabinet take in cooperation with other European Member States to disrupt the free movement of potential terrorists? The cabinet is still reluctant to bomb ISIS in Syria for understandable reasons. At the same time, we do not escape the fact that ISIS can only be effectively combated if it is done in Syria itself. My group recognizes this very clearly. I have already drawn attention to the role of the Kurds, both in Iraq and in Syria. As one of the few armed forces, they can really combat ISIS effectively. What possibilities does the Minister see for increasing support for the Syrian Kurds, despite the fact that there are hooks and eyes attached to them? They are the only reliable boots on the ground for the West. Should the international coalition not consider training the Kurds in Syria, in addition to the Kurds in Iraq, now that there is an international mandate? There are also intentions to have France's military tasks taken over by the Netherlands elsewhere in the world. At least that's how we understood it from our Secretary of Defense. What tasks are these? How are we gonna do that? By what means are we going to do that? After all, we are already running out of material and human resources. In short, is this cabinet going to add extra money to the Defense Department, in addition to the existing commitments? I'm coming to Turkey. Two motions have now been passed and accepted in the Chamber. The first motion concerned the non-linking of Turkey's accession to the EU to cooperation on and reception of refugees. How's the cabinet gonna do that motion? Does the Minister share the analysis that Turkey is further away than ever from European accession? When does this cabinet dare to draw the line and conclude that this is an impassable path? How many human rights violations and areas of Erdogan are still needed for this? The second motion adopted concerned the Armenian genocide. My explicit question is how did the Minister implement this motion when it comes to calling on Turkey to give further impetus to the rapprochement with Armenia. Then I come to the peace process in the Middle East, which, of course, has to be said right away that this cannot be the case anymore. Following a boom in attacks on Israeli citizens, it is important to see where reconciliation projects are still possible. Last year, an amendment by the Christian Union was adopted to achieve this by 1 million. Once again, I am tabling an amendment for reconciliation projects, in order to be able to follow up on them. I know that the Minister is also enthusiastic about this. Last summer he visited a number of projects: cooperation projects, cultural activities, cooperation projects in hospitals, and educational projects. At this time, these may be the only glimpses of light we can see. I therefore sincerely hope that the Minister will support this amendment. Since 2012, my group has also been trying to discourage and stop the policy on the money that the Palestinian Authority is allocating to convicted Palestinian prisons in Israel. Let me give you an example. Two terrorists, who are responsible for the bloody death of a Dutch family, consisting of two parents and three children, have jointly received a sum of 120 million dollars. Currently, people sentenced to 25 years in prison receive €2,100 per person per month. Those are ridiculous amounts when you consider that these people have killed innocent Israelis. There are several statements in the Chamber which had to increase the pressure on the Palestinian Authority. We have now understood that the payment of these Palestinian terrorists, at least their families and their families, has been transferred to the PLO. But it's really a pocket-jacket bag to slide it off like that. I have therefore tabled an amendment to send a clear signal. This is a modest discount on the Dutch support to the Palestinian Authority of €800,000 for those people who actually receive the €2,100 per month at the moment. I come to the point of freedom of religion. Since 2011, the pilot religious freedom exists. Last year I tabled a modest amendment in order to continue this programme, in particular financially. The Minister was enthusiastic about this, but unfortunately I did not get a majority for it in the Chamber. I believe that freedom of religion is a topic that is now, more than ever, topical. It is important to make funds available for this. I am thinking for a moment of Mrs Asia Bibi, who has been sentenced to death for being falsely accused in Pakistan and in prison for five years in dire circumstances. There, this type of money will be very well used to pay, for example, the costs of the proceedings, but also for other situations. I also think about the attention for the organization Raqqa is Being Slaughtered Silently, because of the rise of radical Islam. This courageous organisation reports from Raqqa on the atrocities that ISIS causes there. There could also be funding for these organisations to denounce this. We have received foreman Abu Mohammed in the Chamber. As far as we are concerned, there is potential to actively use the realistic image of ISIS that this organisation brings out in the deradicalisation programmes. Is the Minister prepared to take that up as well? It is now important to find a good balance between the strength to fight ISIS and the hospitality for people in need. I wish the Foreign Minister a great deal of wisdom. Of course, he can count on the constructive cooperation of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u45	I am convinced of the construction of the Christian Union. Every year, Mr Voordewind presents a list of NGOs and groups to which he would like to give some more money. That is all very understandable, and in general they are noble goals. The point is that, of course, we don't have an endless amount of money. Now Mr Servaes and I have tried to shift the budget to a priority that I believe we all share. Is Mr Voordewind also prepared to look within the budget for an opportunity to give those organisations he is calling attention to this year something extra, or should that be found again by the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u46	In the case of an amendment, it is the most common thing to seek cover within the budget. That's what I did. It is three budgets that are now before us. For all three there is coverage within the budget, but at the same time I would add that you are putting funds into your amendment. I'll probably support that. I still have to take a closer look at the amendment, but I would have preferred it not to be covered within the budget but to have additional funds released for this purpose. My group chairman, Arie Slob, also tabled a motion to that effect at the General Discussion. When it comes to the cost of something like the first-year reception of asylum seekers, and how they weigh on the budget for development cooperation, we will talk about that budget next week, like the reception of refugees in the region, the Ministry cannot just take this up. It's hundreds of millions of extras that are needed for both cases. You're making $35 million for that. I am happy about that in itself, but we are not going to get there either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u47	I think it is a very substantial sum, but I look forward to Mr Voordewind's support in that regard. For one specific type of project, he just asked for attention, namely the reconciliation projects between Palestinians and Israelis. I just heard him say, but I may have misunderstood that there is no peace process at the moment. Or did he literally say that couldn't be the case either? If the latter is his verdict, why another reconciliation project?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u48	The first. I note that there are no negotiations at the moment and that it is not obvious that they will be there soon. That is why our focus last year and this year on those small points of light in society, where it seems possible to bring together Palestinians and Israelis, Arabs and Israelis. I visited those projects myself last summer. These are really very encouraging projects, in which people say that sometimes they have to deal with the other for the first time and that the prejudices actually disappear like snow before the sun.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u49	Mr. Chairman. This budget debate on foreign affairs is taking place today in the context of the terrible attacks in Paris last Friday. It will be discussed much more extensively tomorrow, but we cannot get around a number of points today. IS is an unprecedented enemy of humanity and will therefore have to be combated. We will also have to get rid of IS, not because we are helping terror in general, but because it was true, but because it is clear that the presence of Islamic State is a huge promoter, an organizational point and funder of world-wide religiously motivated terror. More than ever, it is also clear that an international and comprehensive approach to the civil war in Syria is needed in the short term. We can't do without that broad-based approach, even if we want to. Once again, there are groups in this Chamber who are calling for the bombing of IS in Syria. I think that is unwise and I do not think that it is contributing to a solution. A civil war in a country with dozens of different currents and hundreds of battle groups that are in conflict with each other is not solved by bombs. So you don't solve the presence of IS. The flow of refugees will increase rather than decrease and the number of victims will increase further. Dictator Assad is still the cause of the civil war and therefore the breeding ground for IS in Syria. By far the largest number of civilian casualties in Syria is in his name and Assad is still the main responsible for the exodus from Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u50	GroenLinks supported Article 100 against ISIS over Iraq. Can Mr Grashoff explain to me why ISIS should be fought over Iraq and not over Syria? The goal is the same and at least ISIS is the strongest in Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u51	Then we're going to recreate discussions that we've already had very extensive. There was a clear international mandate in Iraq. There was a very clear request from the Iraqi Government. There is basically an authority in Iraq, however weak, with which we can work together. In addition, there were principles regarding possible reconstruction and cooperation between Sunni and Shiite groups in Iraq. Together and together with an international coalition, this could have a positive effect. I am also glad to see that there are positive effects to be reported in some sense. There are no such conditions in Syria, as Mr Ten Broeke knows. From that perspective it does not make any sense either. Not that I wouldn't wish it; I would like to fight IS in Syria. I would always do that in the context of a solution which would actually put an end to the civil war, but it is no different. It is not with joy but with suffering that I have to conclude that it is not possible at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u52	The objection of international law, in so far as it was felt in the Chamber, has been removed. This was felt by many groups, including Mr Grashoff's group. That's been said, too. Or is that still the case for Mr Grashoff? The international legal adviser was clear about this in June last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u53	We have already discussed this in detail, and I said it very clearly on behalf of my group. I believe that Mr Ten Broeke was also present at that debate. No, there is no international mandate for intervention in Syria; there is only a super narrow mandate that comes from the threat of ISIS towards Iraq from Syria. The thought alone is too narrow and insufficient...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u54	Based on international law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u55	... too narrow and insufficient to actually work on a solution in Syria. It would be a random bombing of IS in Syria with all its consequences, namely further victims and destabilisation in Syria. That's not what we'd want to do with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u56	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u57	I have also heard Mr Ten Broeke publicly say that Assad is not our enemy. That surprised me and I can't imagine him being so literal about this. Assad is, of course. It is one of the biggest dictators and one of the biggest bottlenecks for any solution at present in Syria. However, we must face up to the fact that, without the active support of Russia and Iran, there will be no solution for Syria. The agreement reached last weekend by UN Envoy Staffan de Mistura is therefore, in our view, the best starting point for a comprehensive solution. It is very important that this process should be given space and that, ultimately, it should be possible to work towards free democratic elections under the supervision of the UN, so that, in any case, Assad can be removed from the scene by that route. In the meantime, we certainly won't have to count him among our allies. How does the Minister assess the agreement under the guidance of the UN last weekend? What contribution does the Netherlands make to the different routes that are currently running there? What could be intensified in that? I'm coming to Turkey. There is every reason to assist that country financially in the reception of 2.3 million Syrian refugees. There are reasons for humanity. The hopeless situation for these refugees needs to be improved. I would like to give an example of the 400,000 Syrian children in Turkey who cannot go to school. If refugees in Turkey do not have the opportunity to make something of life, the urge will not be reduced to opt for the dangerous journey to Europe and the crossing in shady boats. If there are opportunities to make something of life there, then the incentive it offers not to embark on that dangerous journey will be firmer and more effective than any border control. We are not going to stand with our backs to Turkey, but we are very critical, because things are really bad there. It is therefore important that the talks that are currently taking place with the Turkish Government are extended. The position of the Kurds, the end of the struggle with the PKK and the situation surrounding the freedom of the press must also be discussed in that discussion. Is the Minister prepared and able to engage in this discussion both bilaterally and at EU level? I come to Israel and the Palestinian conflict. The most important lesson of Yitzhak Rabin, who was murdered twenty years ago by an extremist, is that you should also give your neighbors' children a chance. That message has gotten very far in the background. Unresponsible leaders on both sides encourage aggression. Action for peace and human rights is becoming increasingly difficult and suspicious in Israel. Human rights organisations such as B'Tselem do not get an anbi-status, on the other hand extremist organisations that support Jewish attacks. Equally strange is that demands on transparency in donations apply to human rights organisations, but not to fundamentalist organisations. I am glad that the Minister has indicated in any case that he is prepared to ask the Israeli Government for clarification on these matters. Maybe he can tell us what's going on with that? Is he prepared to come up with an appropriate response in consultation with his European colleagues when Israel implements further anti-NGO legislation? Israeli settlements in Palestinian territory are illegal. This is so under general international law. The labelling of products coming from these settlements and from that illegally occupied area is therefore a logical step. In this way, we can contribute in any way to the cessation of that settlement policy. Will the Minister also support the European Commission's proposal to this effect? The next part of my contribution is about autonomous weapon systems, the so-called killer robots. At last week's UN Convention on Confessional Weapons, the Minister once again discussed these autonomous weapons systems. In the informal preparation, agreement was reached on the rejection of fully autonomous weapons in which people no longer deal with the use of violence. Is it true that there has been a decision to set up a group of governmental experts to negotiate and, if so, what does the Minister think? The development of autonomous weapons is moving fast. There is a sliding scale. We already have cars that can drive themselves and there are drones. The International Affairs Advisory Council considers meaningful human control to be an important criterion, but a sharp definition is lacking. How does the Minister feel about that? How can a good definition be found at international level? If this is discussed at international level, a moratorium on the development of autonomous weapons systems is in any case appropriate in the meantime. Does the Minister agree with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and would he like to do so? In any case, the Netherlands should make efforts internationally to achieve nuclear disarmament. There is an important motion by Mr Sjoerdsma c.s. The Commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound power level of motor vehicles and their trailers. But recently, at the UN General Assembly, a resolution tabled by Mexico to look at all kinds of legal objections was not supported by the Netherlands. Why not? Is it true that the Minister is not actually carrying out the wishes of the Chamber? Human rights violations must always be addressed. Fortunately, we have heard the King in China, but the question can also be asked as to whether more has happened in the background, for example in relation to the position of Nobel laureate Liu Xiaobo, who is serving 11 years in prison. The same applies to Saudi Arabia. Here, too, the question is what our minister of EZ said there about human rights. We didn't read anything about it. Has he, for example, denounced the situation of the blogger Raif Badawi? In my view, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has a coordinating role in the attention that the Cabinet should devote to human rights. Is that right? Does the Minister agree with me? How does he fill that role in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u58	Mr. Chairman. Recently I read a letter from a clergyman in the Syrian city of Aleppo. I'd like to read a few sentences from that. "If we want to describe the situation in which Christians and the whole people of Syria are at present, we can only do so with one word: we are in chaos, in total orderlessness. We lack everything, especially security of existence, because there are constantly bombings by militias, who spare neither the houses, nor the mosques, nor the churches, nor children, nor the elderly." That letter struck me, because it gives a harrowing but realistic picture of the situation in Syria at the moment. This applies not only to Syria; for many other places in this world, too, we witness great injustice almost every day. Of course, today we are thinking directly of the recent terrorist attacks in Beirut and Paris. Our thoughts and prayers go out to those who lost loved ones. Terror does come very close to our homes and streets. It is not my intention in this Chamber to cast off just a lamentation, quite the contrary. Terror never has the last word. Amidst the greatest misery are stories of faith and hope. I would like to draw your attention to a number of issues, starting with the enormous impact that hate can have in terms of violence by citizens and groups. Certainly, conflicts have become more unpredictable and ideologically tinted and easy solutions do not exist, but a sound understanding of the stories behind violence is essential in any case. In this context, I refer to recent statements by British former Prime Minister Tony Blair. He stressed that it was even more necessary than the use of military power to understand and challenge radicalist ideologies of groups such as ISIS, al-Nusra and Boko Haram. Running away from it is not an option. I would urge the Minister to respond to these words. To what extent, when there is a struggle for the hearts and minds of the citizens, attention is paid to providing a substantive reply to radicalist ideologies? How can moderate Muslims combat Islamic extremism more effectively via social media, YouTube and Twitter? Unfortunately, we have to note that a group like ISIS is extremely cunning to use these resources for her cart. Previously, in a general discussion with colleagues, I had the opportunity to discuss with this Minister a situation further away from home, namely the one in Nigeria with the violence of Boko Haram. Does the Minister intend to continue to exert pressure on the Nigerian government to counter Boko Haram's violence there as well? What role can communities of moderate Muslims play in shaping that ideological rebuttal? What is the state of play in the fight against Boko Haram? I'd like to hear the latest information on that. I come to speak about the peace process in the Middle East, where I take the word 'peace process' between quotes. In view of the recent wave of violence against Israeli citizens, it is very important to focus on de-escalation and re-table parties. I agree with Mr Voordewind's questions on the salary payments to Palestinian terrorists' families. The SGP also considers it appropriate to take further steps in this regard. I have therefore co-signed Mr Voordewind's amendment. We strongly reject the labelling of products from the West Bank by the European Union. We have had a debate on this in this Chamber in the past. We find the policy arbitrary and totally counterproductive. Terrorist groups such as Hamas can interpret this kind of progress as a victory and can therefore see no reason to stand up to violence and take their place at the negotiating table. As far as religious persecution is concerned, on the ranking of Open Doors North Korea country number one. That country also has extraordinary human rights status in many other areas. We recently heard that there would be a little more openness. One would be more looking for foreign contacts and investors. Are there actual openings here? What is the Minister's image of that? The United Nations is going to investigate forced labour by tens of thousands of North Koreans abroad. It is good that the UN remains active and remains on the international agenda. What concrete follow-up steps does the UN intend to take and what is its strategy? There was a staggering report on this earlier, which also emerged from the United Nations. After that, it seems to have become a little quiet. We, too, obviously have some embarrassment in the question of what can be done in such a closed country. In view of the seriousness of the situation, I should like to put that question again. On 7 November last. Taiwanese and Chinese Heads of Government agreed to reduce hostilities for the first time in 66 years. We also believe that this is an important step towards lasting, peaceful relations. With Taiwan, we have a lot of trade contacts. I encourage the Minister to consider what further we can do to ease these contacts and not to leave them behind. The European Union is under high pressure in many ways. The attacks in Paris increase that tension again. The whole migration crisis shows all the more how difficult it is to reach a European consensus on tackling cross-border problems. European credibility is at stake if agreements that have been made are not respected. That is why my request is not to bring about all kinds of new things, but rather to make sure that the existing European agreements on security, migration and surveillance of external borders are complied with and implemented. In the light of the current safety challenges, I end with a sound of hope. I said at the beginning of my speech that I think it is important that those sounds do not snow under because of all the sadness and misery that can be found worldwide. After the attacks in Paris, on Twitter "#PrayForParis" was trending. I was pleased to retweet Mr Van Bommel's tweet with that call. A Syrian priest from Aleppo writes this: "Our presence here is a mission. That's why we'll stay. We're not surrendering. We love all the more, we forgive all the more, we bear witness all the more. With faith, hope and love we continue on our path, which is a crossroads." I have great respect for someone who can bring that forward from the front lines. Great injustice also creates a great responsibility for us to contribute everything we can to do justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u59	I call Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party. Mr Wassenberg was installed yesterday as a Member of Parliament and is already having his first debate on an important budget today. It's also his maiden speech. During the maiden speech is not interrupted. I call Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u60	Mr. Chairman. Last Friday, hundreds of innocent people became terrorists' targets. The increasing tension in the world has thus come a lot closer to home than ever. That scares people, and that's understandable. Terrorism is aimed at causing fear. In addition to terrorism, we will also have to overcome this fear. We should not be intimidated, the Minister said. I wholeheartedly agree with him on this. I would like to hear how this Minister intends to contribute to this. ISIS causes countless victims, in Paris but also in the Middle East. Millions of people from Syria, among others, are fleeing the violence. These people seek their salvation in Europe, among others. The European Union and its neighbouring countries face the great challenge of offering war refugees a decent shelter, without succumbing to it themselves. In the current tensions and fires, ethnic conflicts and geopolitical power games have been the cause of violence and oppression for centuries. Among them are often conflicts over raw materials and natural resources. Raw materials and resources are being used as a means of power more than ever before. The more scarce the raw materials become, the more this will be the case. Let me give you some examples. ISIS finances his bloody struggle from the sale of oil and raw materials. Two thirds of the capital of ISIS consists of these proceeds. ISIS conquers oil fields and phosphate mines and this terrorist movement succeeds in selling these raw materials. Can the Minister provide an insight into who the buyers are of these ISIS goods and the possibilities he sees to cut off the cash flows of ISIS? Raw materials also play a role in other conflicts. The tension in Ukraine is partly caused by a struggle for minerals, which is particularly rich in the eastern region of Donetsk. This is a region where the rebels are trying to get power with Russia's support. Around the Gaza Strip, the conflict is largely about access to drinking water and fertile agricultural land. Slowly but surely we come to realize that we depend on other parts of the world and on peace and security there. The realization of the critical role of fossil fuels and, above all, the Netherlands is dependent on the import of raw materials and fossil fuels. Our desire for more leads us to deal with the earth in an irresponsible way, and that has direct consequences for many of its inhabitants. The question of what values we want to pursue with our trade policy is increasingly pressing. Like the question of what consequences this choice has for all of us. Will we continue to use free trade for the benefit of multinationals, but at the expense of family businesses, developing countries and rules that we want to lay down for the protection of humans, animals and the environment? Do we continue to bet on importing cheap raw materials from far away and producing more and more things that we don't need? Or do we opt for a sustainable regional economy, based on closed loops and respect for ecological borders? This is an economy that has human rights, animal welfare and the protection of nature and the environment as its starting point, rather than blindly pursuing more economic growth. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Paris plays a leading role in two of the most urgent international issues: in the fight against terrorism..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Minister has participated in the polar expedition of a large group of researchers, who have looked at the consequences of climate change. Compliments for that. I think it is good that he has seen for himself the effects of greenhouse gas emissions and pollutants in a vulnerable and remote area such as Spitsbergen. Important questions are: what lessons has the Minister learned there and how will he apply these lessons? Is there enough money to sustain long-term research and monitoring on Spitsbergen? I would like that guarantee from the Minister, because this type of long-term research is crucial. In September, the Chamber adopted a motion by the Animal Party to identify the effects of climate change, trade and tax policies and arms supplies on stability in vulnerable countries and regions. The Chamber is still waiting for a letter from the Cabinet on how it intends to implement this motion. This Minister has already started by organising a conference on planetary security; I would also like to congratulate him on that. In his opening address, the Minister also spoke about his experience with the link between climate change and the poignant situation in Mali, which he saw with his own eyes during his previous relationship. The conference was the start of the Planetary Security Initiative. I wonder what form this will take. I'd like to hear more from the Minister. The mayor of The Hague was also present at this conference. In his speech he also talked about the need to recognise ecocide as an international crime. Since 2010, there has been a proposal to criminalise serious damage to the environment. These include serious oil spills, illegal deforestation and pollution of water by extraction of tar sand oil, but also air pollution that threatens public health and nature. Genocide, aggression, torture and crimes against humanity can already be tried internationally. By adding ecocide to this row, we can ensure that companies that deliberately harm nature and our environment will not get away with it for their own gain. In addition, we are ensuring that countries are forced, more than they are now, to actually fulfil their duty of caring for a healthy environment. This minister knows that it is often lacking. Is the Minister prepared to commit itself to adding ecocide to the list of international crimes of the International Criminal Court? I'm considering tabling a motion on this. I'm gonna finish up. The Foreign Minister has many fires in the world to put out. It is therefore important for the Minister to make an explicit commitment to preventing fires. For his lifestyle, the Netherlands uses four times its own land surface of raw materials that have to come from elsewhere in the world. The Netherlands plays an important role in the arms trade. How does the Minister intend to tackle these disruptive activities of the Netherlands in other countries? Is he prepared to denounce internationally the responsibility that rich Western countries have in destabilising the world? Only if we are willing to look honestly at our own behaviour can we begin to solve the many crises in this world.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u61	It seems that you have been with us for years, given the flexibility with which you have made your speech. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments to give colleagues the opportunity to congratulate you, but not after I have done so first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u62	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. I congratulate Mr Wassenberg on his maiden speech. As an expert in experience, I know this is an exciting moment. I trust that the Party of Animals will be of great use to him in the near future, but also in the future. The world is getting more and more impetuous. We have seen this again after the terrible attacks in Paris last Friday. We abhor the attacks in Paris from the depths of our hearts. We are in favour of an alliance for peace and an alliance against terrorism. We also abhor all other terrorist attacks, such as Daesh's attack in Beirut, which killed 43 people last week. Every human life is worth just as much; that does not depend on which continent an innocent victim has fallen on. The world is getting more and more impetuous. Information from one part of the world is available in other parts of the world within moments at the press of a button. The world is globalising and the world is changing and the most important task for us in the Netherlands is that we have to change with it. If we do not dare to change with them, we will take it economically, politically and diplomatically against other countries. That would be a shame for the most important task we have traditionally seen, namely the Netherlands as the guardian of the international order with The Hague as its capital, the city of peace and justice. I would once again urge you, like the Presidents Obama, Hollande and Cameron, to speak about Daesh instead of ISIS. Then we do not suggest that these terrorists are a state or that this state would be Islamic. Because Daesh, I say this as a Muslim, is also my enemy. There are 12 Muslims among the victims in Paris. In Syria and Iraq, the vast majority of the victims are Muslims. You are talking about tens of thousands of deaths; on average about 160 victims a day alone in Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. According to Dutch anti-terrorist expert Peter Knoope van Clingendael, you can only fight terrorism by removing the soil. Symptom control isn't working. I quote: "Terrorism is like a waterbed, when you push it down on one side, it comes up on the other side." We at DENK have repeatedly hammered that soil over and over again. This breeding ground is also based on the way in which we organise our foreign policy. Peter Knoope finds a huge hatred of the West. I quote: "A large part of the world hates us. A group of over five billion people say to the West: what you come to tell us about our future is not our future but your future. What we find progress is neo-colonial," says Peter Knoope. How can we remove this hatred, I ask the Minister. Should we stop using Eurocentrism and our superiority? Should we not be critical about geopolitics and our power politics? Look at Iraq, for example. There Saddam Hussein was helped by the United States, but later the same America waged twice a war with him. Tony Blair recently admitted that the way we dealt with Iraq has everything to do with Daesh's rise. That brings me to the conflict in Syria. With just throwing bombs, we don't bring peace. We have already seen this in Iraq and Afghanistan. With bombs alone, we are responsible for many innocent civilian casualties and for many refugees. The war on terror is getting more and more out of hand, because there is not only a fight to achieve peace. Each country has its own double agenda. Russia bombs all the opponents of Assad, which we implicitly or explicitly support. The Americans are dropping weapons without knowing which groups they're gonna end up with. DENK believes that the Netherlands should not become a pawn in the double agendas of the large countries. That is why we believe that we need to rethink what is happening in this extremely dangerous conflict. What does the Minister think of these fundamental points? Is there a long-term strategy for Syria and what is the role of the Netherlands in this? Is there an exit strategy or do we make the same mistake over and over again? What gives the war an extra bitter taste is that it's big business. The murders and massacres bring gold to the arms industry. Daesh is estimated to make $750 million in oil, a quarter of his total income. Can the Minister guarantee us that the oil that Daesh sells via the black market will not end up in companies like Shell and Exxon and that it will not just end up in the tank of the Dutch motorist? Maybe we're all driving terrorism gasoline? Do we not only ride Euro95, but also Daesh2015? The conflict in Syria is a small step towards Israel and Palestine. What about this fundamental injustice? Has the strategic moment been reached, which we talked about over a year ago? The end of the minister's term of office is approaching and I have not been able to see a breakthrough in the past period. A year is short in politics. We call on the Minister to use the Dutch EU Presidency to put the Israel-Palestine issue on the agenda again. Is the Minister prepared to do so? After all the failed American mediation efforts, it is time for the European Union to try. I see that I have to finish, although I could still make a lot of points. The impetuousness in the world will continue if we continue along this path and if we do not dare to be critical of ourselves. This is not only detrimental to our competitiveness, our economy, our political and diplomatic relations, but also to the position of the Netherlands on the international stage. That needs to change as far as we are concerned. It has to be different!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u63	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to express my condolences to the families and victims of the terrible attack in Paris last Friday. IS must be destroyed. The so-called caliphate must be levelled to the ground. The Prime Minister was right to say that we are at war with ISIS. These far-reaching words also include powerful deeds. However, that is where the cabinet is failing in its entirety. For example, the Netherlands still refuses to throw bombs at IS in Syria, home of our enemy. Each time the VVD bends again before the Labour Party. The defence budget is also very inadequate. We're at war, while our armed forces are completely undressed. It's absurd and dangerous. The Netherlands is fighting a military battle with a broken rifle. Our country absorbs thousands of asylum seekers every month. There's a considerable chance that all these people are hiding IS fighters. It seems that at least one attacker in Paris could move freely through the asylum influx. My group therefore proposes: no more asylum seekers in it, only reception in its own region. Don't play games with our national security anymore. The open border policy and the unbridled immigration of recent decades have led to the emergency situation we are facing today. We say to Commissioner Frans Timmermans: the EU does not lead to stability, but to chaos and conflict. We see that every day in the news. It is a good thing that the EU bubble bursts apart. Let us return to the EEC, where powers in the area of immigration are transferred to the Member States in full again. The Netherlands can then again operate sovereignly. Unfortunately, it is not yet ready; we are still dealing with a Europhile cabinet that is acting in violation of our national interests. Thus, like other European countries, the cabinet is being blackmailed by a dictator in Ankara. While there is no guarantee at all that Turkey will close the borders, the Netherlands will transfer no less than 117 million euros. The Turks are no longer laughing because of so much European naivety. Africa also receives nearly 2 billion from the new EU fund. And of course, the Netherlands has promised the highest contribution: 15 million euros. That money disappears into the pockets of African dictators. As part of this deal, legal immigration from Africa is encouraged. No one in the Netherlands is waiting for that. It's crazy. This amount of more than 130 million could be used much better for military deployment in Syria and border surveillance in the Netherlands. I would like to make one more point: our relationship with Israel. This has been neglected by the cabinet for years. Prime Minister Netanyahu is absolutely right. European countries should be ashamed of labelling Israeli products. Together with Israel, a beacon of light in an extremely dark Middle East, we are at war with jihadism. Let us not alienate this ally further from us by absurd EU policies, but let us fight this evil together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-16.u64	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister will respond on behalf of the government tomorrow afternoon. The second period will then take place.
