ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u1	We will first listen to the answer in the first term from the cabinet, after which the second term of the Chamber will follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. During the suspension of this debate, which was long enough, I was able to send the Chamber a third letter of amendment. That note can be included in the debate on this bill this evening, so that we can beat all the flies with one stone as far as the no-risk policy is concerned. I would like to thank the Chamber for its contribution in the first term. I would also like to congratulate Mrs Nijkerken-De Haan on her maiden speech, which she gave about two weeks ago. In the first period, the Court's input showed that there is already broad support for the objective of the legislative proposal. It's understood that I'm happy with that. However, there are still a number of questions. A number of other points have been raised on the part of the Chamber. In the meantime, in a procedural meeting, the Chamber agreed that a general consultation on the Participation Act and the Jobs Agreement would take place in the broad sense on 29 October. I shall now try to reply as briefly as possible. If it is felt by the House that there is a need for a response to the issues raised in the annex this evening, then I will hear that in the second term. I would like to build up my speech as follows. First of all, I will deal with the harmonization of the no-risk policy. Then I will deal with the harmonisation of the mobility bonus. Then I'll say a few things about the job coach, because he's actually part of it. Then I will say something about sheltered work and the social work company. Finally, I will deal with a number of other issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u3	I think it would be best if we did the interruptions after the cubes as much as possible. If you indicate where the cubes end, that makes life a lot clearer for us. I see that Mrs Karabulut feels very differently!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u4	No, I think that's a very good plan, that's what it is. I thought this is the first block...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u5	You thought the first block is ready, huh, we're going in hard? Fasten your seatbelts! You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u6	I did indeed ask the Secretary of State a number of questions relating to the Participation Act. I would ask the Secretary of State to at least answer the questions about SW company Hameland and a number of individual pressing questions. Maybe she can do it at the end, but she can start with it as well. I'll leave that to the Secretary of State. This would also make my contribution a little easier in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u7	I will see if I can provide answers to these questions along the way. If there are any really pressing issues, I would like to hear it in Mrs Karabulut's second term. I think it is important to stress once again that the purpose of this bill is to support the job agreement and to work with as clear and simple as possible instruments. I am very pleased that the motion for this bill has been made from De Werkkamer, so that the parties involved in this proposal are all like-minded about the synchronisation of these instruments. I'll start with the first block, which is about the no-riskpolis. The no-risk policy is therefore synchronised for all people covered by the Participation Act, for all warranty jobs. The third letter of amendment is now also on the agenda for people working with sheltered work. The SP, D66, the CDA and perhaps others have asked why the no-risk policy is not made available to the group added to the target group of the job agreement when the quota levy is activated. We discussed this group at the Jobs Agreement Act. The appointment with De Werkkamer is that the no-riskpolis applies to the target group of the job appointment. This bill will take care of that. The Jobs Agreement Act provides that the additional group will not become part of the target group of the Jobs Agreement until the quota levy has been activated and thus not before. The second letter of amendment is entirely in line with the Van Weyenberg amendment to the Jobs Agreement and Labour Limit Act. This is why the no-risk policy applies to this additional target group when the quota levy is activated, because then this group will only be one of the target groups. Finally, I would point out that it would lead to additional costs if we brought this group under the no-risk policy straight away. After all, the target group of the no-riskpolis will become larger. Moreover, it is not important because the quota has not been introduced. The SP has also asked whether it is less attractive for employers to employ people who can earn the statutory minimum wage but have a disability. We have also discussed this in the case of the Jobs Agreement Act, even wider than with the SP alone. At the request of De Werkkamer, the bill ensures that the uniform no-risk policy becomes available through the UWV for the entire target group of the job appointment. The legislative proposal sets out the legal frameworks to support the process of additional jobs for the target group. Municipalities can make their own arrangements for those outside. The uniform no-risk policy of the UWV therefore continues to apply to all groups that were already covered by the job agreement. These are, for example, people with WIA, WAO or WAZ benefits, people who are less than 35% disabled for the WIA and those who, according to UWV, had a disability when they left school. They all remain under the no-risk policy. I come to a question from the CDA and the Christian Union. The Chamber has asked for an insight into the government's plans regarding sheltered work on the basis of the 2016 budget. That is why I sent that third letter of amendment. It says exactly how we want to provide the new sheltered work with a no-risk policy and how we can cover it. In doing so, I have actually fulfilled the wishes of the Chamber which I recorded in the first term, but also of municipalities and of Cedris. From the side of the Chamber is almost hammered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u8	Is this the end of the block?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u9	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u10	Then we'll finish the block, with your permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u11	I come to D66's question about the relationship between the cessation of labour costs subsidies and the no-risk policy. That point has been recognised. This is being worked on in consultation with the Parties, with the aim of ensuring that the envisaged system is operational as of 1 January 2016. In case of illness, the UWV calculates the level of the no-riskpolis and sends a signal to the relevant municipality to temporarily stop the wage cost subsidy. In doing so, the intelligence agency facilitates and ensures that the signal of the UWV arrives at the municipality. The intelligence office is currently working on this. Then I come to a question from the PvdA and the SP about the horizon. The SP has also tabled an amendment on this. The PvdA and the SP both ask why this measure is being abolished after five years and why the use of these instruments is not being continued. Mr Kerstens asked why this construction was chosen and it was not agreed that we should leave it until after the evaluation shows that it is better to do otherwise. That's just the other way of reasoning. We have made administrative agreements with all parties in De Werkkamer, i.e. municipalities and social partners. In order to understand the effects in practice, including financial ones, the horizon is included. This was an important focus for municipalities. This harmonisation is accompanied by the withdrawal of funds from the Community Fund. A part of the administrative arrangements is that after three years, i.e. in 2019, an evaluation takes place. I shall, of course, inform the Chamber of its findings. Then we will also look at how we like all this and whether we should continue to do so. I'm at the end of this block, the no-riskpolis. I have yet to speak about the no-risk policy in connection with sheltered work. Oh, there goes Mrs. Schouten again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u12	Mrs. Schouten has sat down again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u13	Shall I do the block of sheltered work first?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u14	Well, Mrs. Karabulut's gonna drag us through.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u15	As usual! Some of the people are not eligible for the no-riskpolis. The Secretary of State says it can be done if they have a WIA or WAO benefit; otherwise the municipality has to make a provision. The Secretary of State knows the municipalities are short of cash. That's what she says. Is the Secretary of State at least prepared to provide insight or monitor how this goes with the group that is outside these agreements? Because, again, perhaps the Secretary of State can explain that. I can't explain it to them, and those concerns are very big.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u16	In dealing with the Participation Act and the Jobs Agreement and Labour Quota Act, we have not only limited the scope of this group, but also really targeted it. I have promised the Chamber that we will also evaluate this group, because we need to look at whether municipalities support people who can earn their minimum wage but need support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u17	The Secretary of State also pointed out possible financial consequences. If we were to open this instrument to the rest of the target group through municipalities, could it say what it would mean financially? Can it send us that for the Social Affairs budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u18	So let me get this straight: this is about a no-risk and a mobility bonus for the group of people who are able to earn the minimum wage on their own...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u19	But have a structural functional limitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u20	... and therefore needs support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u21	Right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u22	I would be happy to provide that insight for the budgetary procedure. However, I do not immediately promise that I will be able to bring it under both instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u23	I do not know when the Secretary of State will advise on the amendments, but I would also have tabled an amendment on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u24	I'll take it to the end of the ride. In order to be for Mrs Schouten's sake, I now move on to sheltered work. That is in line with the no-risk policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u25	I have another question about the block that is now being closed. Do I understand correctly that the €1,800 in the proposed bill for the target group of the job agreement will soon be €2,000 in the new law on pay compensation? We then immediately made the link with the plans for the budget. That's my first question. My second question is this. If you are one of the target groups of the job deal, then you will get that mobility bonus, or what will become the law compensation domain. Can you still qualify for the new LIV, which is being introduced, that premium discount of €2,000? Can these two things go together or not? I hear contradictory things about that. I ask this today because we are discussing the instruments for this group today. I find it a little strange not to discuss this now, even though we are going to talk more about the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u26	That's two questions. The mobility bonus is €2,000 for the entire group we are discussing. As far as LIV is concerned, that is a new instrument that will enter into force on 1 January 2017. It is very good to see how the two interact with each other. If the people who belong to this group could indeed become part of that LIV, then of course they interact with each other. So I'd like to inform the Chamber about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u27	The reason why it is difficult not to get this answer now is that we are now looking at instruments to ensure that these target groups are given the best chance. For this, things are unified, but that LIV is an amount of €2,000. If, theoretically, that does not apply to someone in the job agreement target group who gets 100% Wmo, then we can now put money into it with what we are discussing today, but then that will be undone by €2,000 that others get. Then we have not strengthened the position of this group in the labour market. Could the Secretary of State say a little more about that in the second term? I understand that I may be asking a lot now, but can she say a little more about that in the second term? After all, these are all instruments for groups in the same labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u28	I understand this question very well. I will see if I can explain this further in the second term. Edoch, it is essential to stress that that LIV, which is for the lowest wage scales, could also apply to this target group on 1 January 2017. This would increase the compensation to employers. Then I come to sheltered work. That is why this debate has been suspended at first instance. We can now speak freely about the fact that five times 20 million is available for sheltered work. Mrs Karabulut made a comment on this, as did the CDA. She says that if those resources become available, the Chamber preluded there, of course, a little bit on................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In my letter to the Chamber, I made that very clear. I have indicated that I would very much like to use that five times 20 million for sheltered work. Part of it is for the no-risk policy, but there is still a substantial part left for other matters. I really want these resources to end up in municipalities that have made sheltered places. So you could say that this is a bonus for the fact that a municipality makes sheltered places. This also means that these funds do not go to the general payment of the Municipal Fund, but are actually paid as a kind of bonus to municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u29	Why don't we finish the block first, Mrs. Karabulut?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u30	I have a question for clarification. Does the Secretary of State mean by a bonus that these funds will be earmarked?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u31	Yes, they are not included in the general payment of the Municipal Fund. In the letter I indicated that I have full confidence in our fellow governments: the municipalities. The Chamber knows that from me, too. What we have seen so far from the inspection report is that not all municipalities are enthusiastic about making shelters, and then I express myself euphemistically. We are giving this hand to municipalities to do so quickly. In 2016, I want the inspection to look again at how the situation develops. If the municipalities do not yet make shelters with enthusiasm, I want to amend the law in such a way that the sheltered work will come. This is part of the social agreement. That is what we have agreed with each other, social partners and governments, and that is what we must do. I believe that I have already answered many of the questions that lived in the first part of the debate about sheltered work and the impulse.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u32	The last remark made by the Secretary of State is a change of course. It has always said that it is up to the municipalities to decide how they are to intercede or place the target group for sheltered work. Now the Secretary of State is gonna put that in the law. I wonder why she did not go there earlier, because before that we have also provided resources for sheltered work. At that time, however, it did not reach that conclusion. That's question one. Question 2 is in response to the letter she sent on the financing of the no-risk policy for sheltered work. The Secretary of State draws 15 million from the macro-budget for the welfare allowance for this purpose. It states that wage costs subsidies do not need to be paid at the time when a no-risk policy enters into force. Then she can't say it's an addition to the municipalities, can she? Because of this no-riskpolis, doesn't she just take money away from the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u33	Let me start with the last question. That's the deal we made with the municipalities. When people come under the no-risk policy, municipalities no longer have to pay wage subsidies. It's being pushed together and loved. We made that deal and that is why it can also be done with this cost. The first question was why I now sent this letter. I understand that it's the first year and that it's all quite complicated and that there are run-ins, but I'm just assuming that municipalities keep their word and make shelters for people who need it. That's why we're doing an extra handshake. Here's what I have to tell you. If we do not use this hand-out and if we do not keep the promise to make sheltered places, then we must amend the law. I think it's fair to go to congregations to announce that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u34	That seems almost a quota law for municipalities. If the Secretary of State is so convinced that these jobs should simply be created and that they are now actually going to make money available for them, then what does it have to do to make this legislative change now? Then it's clear to everyone, then everyone knows what he's been held to and then everyone knows what the money is to be spent on. Now it's stuck in the air again and it's just a question of whether we're not going to have the same debate again tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u35	Mrs. Schouten is linking to the Jobs Agreement Act. That is also an agreement, and we have said that we simply assume that employers will keep their word and that there will be 125,000 places. But at the end of the ride it's just checked if it worked. If it did not work, it will of course be considered whether we should introduce the quota. The same applies to sheltered work, because municipalities also keep their word. I can also see that there are many municipalities that have really become sheltered places. I want to make it very clear that this agreement must stand. Hence the need for additional resources and, like municipalities and Cedris, a no-risk policy. But if at the end of the ride it appears that the number of sheltered areas is not being lifted up sufficiently quickly, I think I should be honest about what I intend to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u36	Several questions have been asked about this in the first period, which are not answered in this block. Those questions can be found in the letter from the G-4 and four other municipalities last week about sheltered work. First of all, there are municipalities that do want to do something with sheltered work, present people to the UWV and so I heard in twelve of the thirteen cases a "no" get back from the UWV. Municipalities therefore wonder who can be admitted to the sheltered work. A second signal is that there is occasional money and a structural financial problem. The third question is, in the context of Tilburg and other municipalities, what you do with municipalities that organize sheltered work in a different way. Are these all elements that the Secretary of State will take into account in her, as Mrs Schouten called it, 'quota law' for municipalities? Or is all this irrelevant when that situation arises?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u37	It's not for nothing that the inspection investigation has done. We already have an intermediate position on that. I, too, have, of course, read the letter from the municipalities. To Mr Heerma's three questions, admission to sheltered work is not too strict and there are not too little structural financial resources, what do we do with municipalities that make up alternatives? I would like to answer the following. The alternatives are mostly in day-to-day spending. Municipalities shouldn't indicate whether they're doing sheltered work, but how they're doing it. Covered work, as we agreed, is simply organized work on the basis of a collective agreement. So there can be no misunderstanding about that. As far as the structural financial matters that municipalities lay down for us are concerned, we did, of course, pass on the matter when we dealt with the legislative proposal, including in this Chamber. We have come to the conclusion on the basis of that passing-through that, at the end of the journey, I think that in 2045 30.000 sheltered areas could have been realized. We have therefore had this financial problem once and again. Nevertheless, I have thought that for five years now the no-risk policy should also be closed to sheltered work, because I believe that this is a real demand from the municipalities and also to provide an additional incentive for the creation of sheltered workplaces. I understand that municipalities are very much looking for exactly how you do that. Last year, moreover, there was also a Christmas motion, on the basis of which EUR 30 million was made available to make social workers 'of the 21st century'. In short, a lot of resources are being allocated to municipalities. So that can't be the problem. About, last but not least, admission I say the following. I have also, of course, seen that the number of sheltered areas is inadequate. On the other hand, the criteria that the UWV has always used seem to be strict for people who claim to have nominated people from that target group. The Chamber understands that I've invited people from the VNG and the UWV to the table. The three of us look very closely at the test criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u38	The latter is a good step anyway. The way things are going is very different. The city council and the board of a municipality say we're gonna do it. The municipality contributes people to the UWV and gets relatively structural "no." And then we hear from the Secretary of State that if you don't do your job, we're gonna force it. In any case, this is already complicated from the point of view of decentralisation, but it is also quite unfair for such a specific municipality, because it does carry out a lot of things. I wonder if the Secretary of State can indicate at what time the Chamber can hear anything about that consultation with municipalities and the UWV. However, in my first term, I have also said that if the sheltered work does not come off the ground, then that may also be a reason to look at the frameworks of the law rather than decentralisation less and to force more from above. Shouldn't that also happen in that discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u39	I am doing my utmost to provide me with an insight into the results of the consultations between the VNG and the UWV in terms of "the front door" for the AO of 29 October, which seems to me to be a good time. I do not intend to change the frameworks now, because in the social agreement we have made good agreements on sheltered work. I'm committed to keeping these agreements. That's what I expect from my partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u40	In any case, this is very important: it must be sustainable employment sites, with ordinary workers' rights in fact. My question builds on Mr Heerma's question. Is the Secretary of State prepared to return in that letter to another important problem identified by the partners, namely that what the Secretary of State has done is good and resolves some of the money shortage in the short term, but that it is also insufficient and that structural money is lacking because it is incidental resources? In other words, municipalities need structural funding and the amount of money needed to achieve these sustainable jobs is still too low, they say. Can the Secretary of State come back to that now or at a later date?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u41	We're doing this now for five years. I think that's a nice handshake. The pass-through we had originally made was good in itself, but I really want to try to give municipalities a little more air and space to realize sheltered work places properly. Everyone still has to get used to it. That's right. I get that. In short: I think five years is a nice time span. Mrs Karabulut's second question was about...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u42	It was about the amount of money per workplace. There is also a structural deficit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u43	The amount of assistance per workplace is €8,500, in addition to the wage costs subsidy from the i-part. You could add €3,000 to that now. That's pretty good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u44	But the municipalities, the partners of the Secretary of State, say that is not enough. My question is therefore whether the Secretary of State would like to respond to that. This can also be done later in writing, for general consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u45	I sat at the table last Friday at the end of the afternoon with the representatives of the FNV and of Cedris. The aim was to look again very closely at what we now mean by sheltered work. Which premises have we originally adopted and what exactly is the situation in the multi-annual steps? This is now coloured in more detail by the three of us, knowing that we will follow this path for the next five years. I think it is a good idea to forward what comes from this to your Chamber for the AA of 29 October. With your agreement, I'll move on to the next block, Mr. Chairman. That block is the harmonisation of the mobility bonus. That too is a wish that has been sent to us from De Werkkamer. The Chamber is very pleased that this mobility bonus can be discussed for all target groups. However, a number of questions have also been asked and the SP has tabled an amendment. This calls for the law to ensure that three years after the entry into force of the mobility bonus is evaluated. I've already promised. In fact, that also applies to the no-riskpolis. This will also receive an evaluation after three years, in 2019. The evaluation is not part of the legislative text, but we have made good agreements with De Werkkamer and the parties represented in it. So I don't think we have a difference of opinion on that at all. Of course, your Chamber will be informed about the results of the evaluation. Several groups, such as the SP, D66 and the Christian Union, have asked for the effectiveness of the mobility bonus. Is that why employers hire people faster? It does help, though I must say that employers are increasingly looking not only at the financial picture, but also at the overall added value of hiring people with disabilities. So that's fun. The mobility bonus could be the extra push. However, it is not for nothing that we are going to look at and evaluate effectiveness for three years. Then we can see if it helps and if we're going to continue. There was another question from the Christian Union and D66. If the group that now gets a mobility bonus of €7,000 comes under the jobs agreement group, those people will go to a bonus of €2,000. Is that gonna cause any trouble? I don't think it will cause immediate problems for employers to hire Wajongers. It is still a substantial saving on Wajangers' labour costs. The workroom has insisted on an equal bonus. The members of The Workroom are in for it, too. So I don't think this has to be a point of attention. I've already updated the Chamber on the evaluation. The Labour Party has asked how the remaining amount is used. Can we keep that amount available to support employers who help people from the target group of the job appointment to work? It would be nice if that money could remain available for that. I would like to say yes to this question. However, we must consider how these resources can be used most effectively. This brings me to the end of the mobility bonus block. I come to the block about the harmonisation of the job coach. This is a harmonisation which does not need to be enshrined in legislation, but which is actually part of this pride. We see that the policy freedom of the municipalities means that they can follow the protocols of the UWV and thus shape the synchronization of the job coach. The big four are already doing that. We find that very pleasant for employers and also for the people concerned. Wherever we can, we promote it. The evaluation of the Participation Act will also examine how the use of this instrument has been implemented by municipalities in the synchronisation process. Both SP and PvdA and D66 have asked questions about this. We do our utmost to ensure that this job coach is as clear as possible. Then I come to the block of other matters. I see a question from the CDA and D66 which I have had several times before in the Chamber. That question is about wage costs subsidies and pay dispensation. Can I tell you when the investigation into these two instruments is ready? That concerns the Van Weyenberg/Heerma motion. The preparation has begun. The motion asked for an investigation within three years of the introduction of the Participation Act. Researchers have been asked what stakeholders would think of the co-existence of both instruments in the Participation Act. I will inform the House of Representatives in November about the progress and planning of the investigation. I am going to inform the Chamber of First Experiences with the Participation Act. That's what we agreed. A question on the part of the SP was: could we exclude 50-plus Wajongers from the re-evaluation operation? We'll check with all the Wajangers to see if there's any work power involved. There are no exceptions for certain age groups. I don't think it's so obvious to separate older people in advance, because that's how you write them off. We're just trying to invest in activating the elderly. That's important. If we do not re-evaluate older people, they will fall into the category of 'no work power'. This also excludes them from support by the UWV in finding work. There is no exception in the social agreement for certain groups. Parliament has agreed to this. I would therefore suggest that we do not make that exception at the moment. I have come to the amendments. I've got that part already...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u46	Mrs. Karabulut, and then Mrs. Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u47	I had asked another question about young people who, from practical education and special education, do a apprenticeship and are eligible for the bonus discount for disabled people in employment. Is it true that municipalities, when they are at the end of their internship, are allowed to grant a wage subsidy? We are getting signals from the schools and the supervisors that this is not the case. This has consequences for a young person who has worked very well for three years, after which the employer wants to hire him, but with wage costs subsidies, formerly the labour cost dispensation. The young person is then told by the municipality: sorry, we cannot do that, because you can work; you have work capacity so you are not eligible for these instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u48	I have also heard a bell ringing this week and I am now in the process of finding the valve, if I may say so. Because I too have understood that it would happen, and I say it carefully that young people have internships and that these young people could stay with the same employer after the internship. If I am well informed, those young people have received a minimum youth wage from the employer before the internship. This could mean that the municipalities would not be able to provide wage costs subsidies after three years of meeting, because someone would have shown that they are already working. Again, I say this carefully, because I really want to figure it out. As I said, I would like to share the valve with the Chamber and therefore I propose that I inform the Chamber of Representatives before the AO.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u49	I'd love to. Can these young people actually use the same tools in the Participation Act as employers when they employ school leavers or unemployed people belonging to the target population register? I'd like to get the questions straight. I had another question related to this. Do or do young people with a declaration of barriers to training who have passed on to a paid job immediately after their internship also have the possibility, after a possible dismissal, of requesting an assessment to qualify for that target group register? This in turn is a different form, but here again there seems to be exclusion and/or the lack of optimal connection between schemes. These are all rather complex arrangements that are far from being connected.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u50	No, and I think we all want the same thing. That is my motivation, also in answering Mrs Karabulut's questions. I'm gonna recreate this follower. We are all in the process of letting young people work with the good employers, even after their internship, with all the instruments that matter. So I'd really like to dive into this again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u51	I'm glad the Secretary of State says this. I have read the answers to the previous written questions of the SP. I think the answers were a little too easy, because I am also getting signals about this target group. In the old Wajong the young people from special practical education went on their 16th internship with a higher mobility bonus and pay dispensation. These young people are now at risk of receiving a lower mobility bonus and not a wage wage subsidy, because municipalities indicate that they already have a job and that is why we should not grant labour costs subsidies. If these young people continue to work from the age of 16, they run the risk of not being covered by the job guarantee, even though they would initially have gotten that sticker, but there is no wage subsidy for technical reasons. I believe that a solution can be found for this, otherwise I fear that these young people will not be on their 16th internship, but will end up at home on the couch. They will then have a greater chance of being trapped in a benefit, and we should not want that. So I'm pleased with the SP that the Secretary of State is picking this up. Did I hear correctly that before the AA we will get a feedback on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u52	I'll do my best. I will at least entrust my findings to the paper until then, because I also want to know very well what is going on here. Is this a matter of execution or is something not quite right in the law? If that is the case, then we simply have to change the law, because these young people must have perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u53	And we think the employers understand it all, too. It's gonna be very complex, but that aside. One of my questions hasn't been answered. I asked the Secretary of State if she wanted to reflect on the signals. We have received several that companies do not receive people from the UWV or the municipality. I've been hearing this a lot. My point was: we can come up with instruments here until we get one way, but if this gets through very badly with the employers, we are doing a somewhat pointless exercise here. Can the Secretary of State elaborate on that? I have devoted quite a lot of my input to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u54	I said at the start of this debate on all the issues that have been raised and which could also be reviewed during the AA, that we could then deal with them, but I would very much like to deal with them. I, of course, also get these signals, like the other signals, that too few places would be made. In the labour market regions, the firms, employers, employees, the UWV and the municipalities are increasingly finding each other. There is a real need to coordinate very well how the target group can be presented and how employers and employees can be brought into contact with each other. I see that the UWV has already been working more and more on the team and has been able to highlight more and more profiles of people. That's what municipalities do more and more. However, it would not be surprising if we were to use much more unambiguous instruments. I would therefore like to stress this firmly in De Werkkamer for a moment, and that is what is happening, because it has to be done. In short, in the 35 working companies it is discussed and in The Work Chamber it is discussed. Those are the places where this has to be denounced.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u55	Can we then get a feedback from what the ambitions are with it? Because I have heard too many times that it would be raised. I just want to see what action is being taken, what results are being achieved and what steps are finally going to be taken. Can the Secretary of State really be more specific about this? Can she promise that she will return to that in a letter, for example, so that we can really keep our finger on the wrist?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u56	I could now very easily say that we have of course agreed on monitoring and evaluation times, but I think so myself... Well, here's what I propose. In the letter I am writing to the Chamber for general consultation, I will also pay attention to this. In what way is it up to me, but I'm going to see if I can give the Chamber some more insight into the state of affairs on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u57	I would like to make one more point, which prevents a motion, Mr President. I am not only curious about the state of play, but also about what will be done to make the match better, so that we will hear less and less of that kind of sounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u58	It's been noted. I now turn to the amendments, starting with the amendment to item No. 9 of the SP, which states that the present bill should also apply to the additional quota levy group. I've been dealing with that for a while. I must advise against that amendment, because that additional group is only on the quota and there are no resources for it. In the amendment to item No. 10 is proposed to delete the no-risk policy horizon. I have also taken up this point. That horizon clause is part of the administrative arrangements in De Werkkamer. So I would like to keep my side of these agreements, including towards the municipalities. The amendment in part No. 11 of the SP arranges an evaluation and a report to the House of Representatives on the effectiveness and effects of the law in practice within three years of its introduction. I consider this amendment to be a policy support, because I have already promised it and it is already in the administrative arrangements with my partners in the Chamber. An evaluation is foreseen in 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u59	And support for policy means to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u60	This is not part of the legal text. I wouldn't want to settle it in the law either. I must therefore formally discourage the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u61	Your appreciation of the amendment to item No. I would also like to hear from you explicitly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u62	I don't recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u63	There is one more amendment. Shall we do that first?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u64	I have three amendments tabled. Has the fourth also been submitted?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u65	Yes, that is the Karabulut amendment to part No. 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u66	I didn't have that amendment yet, but I have. With this amendment, Mrs Karabulut is a little ahead of what I included in last week's letter. I'm really gonna assume that municipalities are gonna make sheltered places. It is only when it becomes apparent that this is not enough next year that legislation will be dealt with. This amendment is premature and I must therefore advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u67	Did you then reach the end of your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u68	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u69	I have two further questions on two different amendments. With regard to securing these 30,000 sheltered places, I could follow the Secretary of State and wait another year if the situation were not so serious. A recent inspection report shows that one in five municipalities does not intend to create sheltered workplaces. I would like to ask the Secretary of State why she wants to take unnecessary risks and wait another year, when these facts are already known.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u70	We are in the first year of the Participation Act. I can see that many municipalities are really trying very hard to shape and content the decentralisations. I also see that there are municipalities that are doing their best to get sheltered work well organized. I take congregations seriously, and I have faith in them, too. I think that Mrs Karabulut has a point when she says that there are also municipalities that want to make deliberately and knowingly no shelters. I didn't do a hand-off for nothing. I assume that these municipalities are again scratching themselves firmly behind the ears, not only the lectures of B and W, but also the municipal councils. I want my inspection to use the thermometer one more time. Then I'm gonna see if it's necessary to change the law. I think that is an orderly course of action towards our fellow governments. This amendment is really too premature.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u71	Are we not at risk of spending a lot of money a year later, but not of what they were intended for, namely sheltered work? That's what I'm so afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u72	Mrs Karabulut also has a point here, in the sense that the funds originally earmarked for the Broad Participation Act, which includes sheltered work, are included in the broad benefit. Municipalities are allowed to consider this themselves, but it is not for nothing that I take the specific issue of the five times 20 million in order to keep these resources really used for sheltered work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u73	I also have a question about the amendment to item No. 11, which the Secretary of State considers to support policy. The Secretary of State also believes that there should be an evaluation on the mobility bonus, as on the no-risk policy, but she says that she does not think it should be included in the law. I don't understand. Why not for the no-riskpolis and for the mobility bonus? Does the Secretary of State share my view that there is little known about the effects of the mobility bonus and that that is all the more reason, perhaps even more so than at the no-risk policy, to evaluate properly? If we incorporate this into the law, we will be able to implement additional measures and/or policy changes in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u74	I told you that I made some really good agreements with the members of the Chamber about that evaluation. That includes the mobility bonus. At Mr Kerstens' questions, I have already indicated that the funds released after five years will continue to be used for this target group. In this evaluation, of course, we are looking very closely at what that bonus does. The remaining resources must be used in such a way that they really cut wood.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u75	Rounding off, very briefly!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u76	Fine. But precisely because it's so important, I don't understand why this is not included in the law and the no-riskpolis is. Why doesn't the Secretary of State say: fine, this is an improvement on what was there and that's why I'm taking over?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u77	I have already made agreements on this and I think I should do justice to my interlocutors. I simply assume that they will do their word properly and that we will evaluate it in three years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u78	I would like to have a little more explanation of the amendment to item No. 13 by Mrs Karabulut. The Secretary of State gives five times 20 million to the municipalities for the realization of sheltered workplaces. That money she even tags, but can she also force this money to be spent on it without it being laid down in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u79	I intend to do the following. We have five times 20 million available for sheltered work, including the no-riskpolis. I would like to give the rest of the funds afterwards to the municipalities that have created sheltered areas. So it's actually a bonus per sheltered workplace. I do not make the resources available in advance, but only when a sheltered workplace has been created.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u80	In what period of time does that happen? Is every year afterwards determined per municipality how many municipalities have realized and how much money they get from that pot as a bonus?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u81	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u82	Very good. We will continue with the second term of the Chamber. The first speaker is Mrs Nijkerken from the VVD group for her'maiden second term', I understand. Anyone can just interrupt, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u83	Mr. Chairman. Few people can say that the term of their maiden speech lasted almost two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u84	That doesn't apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u85	I thank the Secretary of State for the answer. I would also like to thank Mrs Schouten, who very strongly asked for the answer to my question about the matching of the people in the target group with the employers. Indeed, I had not received an answer to that question and it is an important question, because I see a lot of employers who are willing to offer workplaces. We can make up a lot of instruments with each other, but if things don't go well there, then the instruments don't make sense either. Finally, I have a brief question for the Secretary of State. When does it intend to carry out the measurement to see whether municipalities will actually start to create sheltered workplaces as a result of the hand-out? I assume that municipalities can decide for themselves how to implement this. This is actually the only point I wanted to verify with the Secretary of State in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u86	Mr. Chairman. In the first term, I submitted some 20 questions to the Secretary of State, which I received as a People's Representative from the people to submit to her. The Secretary of State has been able to read them back. She has already answered two questions, but she may be able to return to the other questions in writing if she fails to do so in the second term. That's kind of nice, because people think it's important. Maybe it can go into the situation with the SW company Hameland in the second term. I asked questions about this in the first term. I've prepared a number of motions. My first motion concerns the harmonisation of the instrument job coach. For the no-risk and mobility bonus, this is evened out but not for the job coach. I think that's weird. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the importance of ensuring that job coaches are used as clearly as possible for the target group of the Participation Act and that it is therefore desirable to establish a clear, national scheme for job coaches;]] [[calls on the government to harmonise the job coaching scheme in line with the no-risk policy and the mobility bonus,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34194-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u87	We have had a discussion earlier about who is eligible and who is not. Some of the people in need of support, who have a disability but can earn and/or be highly educated independently of the statutory minimum wage, are not eligible for this. I think that has very perverse consequences. I can't explain it either. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a large group of people with structural functional disabilities are not eligible for a place in the target population register;]] [[whereas this creates inequality;]] [[calls on the government to broaden the target population register so that everyone with a disability included in the job quota when the Quotum Act is introduced is included in the target population register,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34194-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u88	The Secretary of State has already promised to identify at least the financial consequences of carrying out such a motion. That is what we are going to talk about. There's a lot to do about sheltered workplaces. In a final letter of amendment, the Secretary of State made it possible for the no-risk to be used also for the sheltered workplaces. That is a good thing, I think, just because of the financial deficit in municipalities. But I would like to stress once again that the legal guarantee of these places is extremely important. With occasional resources, like the Secretary of State who has now been released, we are not going to get there. We are going to talk about all this. I think it is very important for the Secretary of State to be involved in sustainable, real workplaces, where the participants, or the workers, also have real workers' rights. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet has released 100 million for the realisation of sheltered workplaces, including no-riskpolis;]] [[Whereas they do not come from the ground, or are very difficult;]] [[calls on the government to make agreements with VNG, Cedris, social partners and UWV on sheltered workplaces, based on the realisation of jobs at a salary and therefore no daily use or voluntary service for a benefit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut and Mr Kerstens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34194-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u89	However, the arrangements applicable to some young people in special education and practical education who are in a apprenticeship are somewhat complex. The Secretary of State has promised us that we will also answer the specific but important questions in writing. I have also asked a series of questions about the household allowance and a number of issues relating to the assistance section. That is what we shall be discussing tomorrow and in the forthcoming debates of this month.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u90	That's a difference in height! I'm gonna need the microphone a lot higher. Mr. Chairman. It will not surprise the Secretary of State that the CDA Group is in favour of the present bill. I have already indicated that in the first period. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her first-term response. In particular, I would like to thank her for the commitment to talk to the VNG and the UWV about the rigour of the policy at UWV when it comes to sheltered work and to inform us about it for general consultation. I also refer to the answers to the problems which Mrs Karabulut referred to earlier, which arise among young people in practical education and special education. They seem to be getting between shore and ship and are therefore at great risk of getting to work not through the internship but at home in a benefit situation. We have to avoid that with each other. That should not be the effect of the Participation Act. I am well aware that the Secretary of State did not, in the first place, address a number of questions on which she can also come back in general consultation. I am aware that, as far as the issue of pay dispensation is concerned, this is also my first-term contribution. I will behave nicely; we will indeed come to talk about it in general. As may have been shown by my interruption earlier, I am not quite at the same point as the Secretary of State in the field of sheltered work. I also wonder if I'm ever gonna get there. I am not concerned that we should be forcing sheltered work to be organised by questioning this transition. However, something must be done for this target group and if it does not, we must also be prepared to look at the law and the frameworks. However, we will have that discussion if the places do not get off the ground. Perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to indicate at what point in time she is going to make that assessment. In this way, we can have a debate on whether to tighten up or look again closely at the frameworks of the law. The last question on my part concerns LIV. I believe that Mr Van Weyenberg has rightly interrupted this, despite the fact that the law in question is not now before us. I wonder what the Secretary of State will say about this in her second term. Depending on how LIV is going to relate to the harmonisation that exists with respect to the mobility bonus, the introduction of LIV could put the target group of the Participation Act at a disadvantage. This is because resources will be made available to all those who compete away with the target audience of the Participation Act. I am curious to see what the Secretary of State will say about this and how to prevent LIV from working badly for this target group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u91	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her first-term response. I have a few more questions. The first is about something Mr Heerma has already stressed. Is it true that before the general discussion we will hear more exactly how the Secretary of State will deal with the municipalities the remaining five times 20 million, so what is left of that after what we are discussing today about the no-risk policy for sheltered work? Can the Commission comment on how it is going to monitor this and on the cost of implementing these measures? It seems to me quite a lot to do if you have to take official measurements for each municipality to see which jobs are exactly according to the rules and check them again. Will the Secretary of State take that with him? I agree with Mr Heerma's remark that if it turns out that the instrument is not working, we have not yet reached the stage at which we first have the question of whether there are any other problems in the framework that we need to deal with and which we need to change course before the Secretary of State comes up with legislation. This isn't the issue right now, but if you ever do end up in that phase, you have to weigh it completely. I very much agree with Mr Heerma on this. I hope Mrs Karabulut is, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u92	That's what she's gonna show us now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u93	"Integral weighing" always sounds very good, but it is the result that counts. My question is about the sheltered workplaces. Does Mr Van Weyenberg share my view that it should be sustainable and full-fledged jobs? You have two tastes: it is either sustainable and full-fledged, with workers' rights, whether it is a kind of day-to-day spending activity or very precarious jobs with no protection whatsoever.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u94	I think this is a dilemma. The core is that the goal we offer people must be above all else. That goal is meaningful work, getting to work. I think that's something other than a standard form of daily spending. There is a different goal, and I really agree with Mrs Karabulut. Moreover, we have, of course, made the agreement in the law on what municipalities should write in their regulations. That was not what Mrs Karabulut would have wanted in that. I still note that until now the municipalities have all complied with this law, because I have not yet heard from the Secretary of State any examples of incidents in which she has wanted to intervene in enforcement through the inspection. Of course, it's not always places that count in the definition of 30,000. Something about that has been incorporated into the law. That law has supported my group. However, if it turns out that we have arranged something that sounds very nice in theory but which the municipalities say "we can never bear that risk and we are not going to do that," I think we should have the courage to look at everything. I hope we don't get into that world, but I'm worried. I therefore share Mrs Karabulut's objective, but I would like to avoid that in a few years' time we have rigged something so that the people who need the places do not get it. I'm starting to get that slight discomfort when I see what's happening in town right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u95	We are against this law for other reasons. I would ask Mr Van Weyenberg to take a step back and come with me to the workers concerned. I am talking about the toughest groups of people, but still, with support, guidance and adapted workplaces, they can do work according to their ability. That requires us to organise something, because the market does not; Mr Van Weyenberg will agree with me. Is he prepared to finish the exercise with me and say: we must recognise this, but this includes permanent contracts of employment? The alternative is clear; that is daily spending.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u96	We see that there are also municipalities where the SP sits in the college that manage to make agreements. They may not count in the 30,000-count, but they do organize cases that the Secretary of State says are in accordance with the law. That's a tension field. I know that Mrs Karabulut is making a different assessment on this point. For me, in the end, it's about us offering these people something. My fear is that we will have something that looks beautiful in theory, but the municipalities say: in fact, you are asking us to stick our heads in a financial noose, but we are not doing so. I would like to say to Mrs Karabulut that I do not want us to get into this situation. We need to look at this very carefully, because it is a shame to develop something that is perhaps fantastic on paper, but which does not help people in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u97	Mr Van Weyenberg concludes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u98	I was just getting started, Mr. Chairman. I am not yet convinced by the reaction of the Secretary of State to maximizing the no-risk policy at five years, as proposed in Mrs Karabulut's amendment. I am afraid that in three years' time an employer will be wondering whether he should still be working, knowing that in two years' time the no-risk policy will expire. I understand the administrative arrangements, but I am very concerned that employers have been thinking for much earlier than five years: if the no-risk policy expires, I am afraid to. The Secretary of State has so far only used a procedural argument, but I would also like to hear a substantive argument. I agree with the Secretary of State's commitment to Mrs Schouten's question on matching. On demand and supply, motions have been tabled before, including by Mr Potters and myself. I think there's still a world to be won here. I look forward to hearing the answers that Mrs Schouten will receive. Next, a comment on the LIV and the mobility bonus. I'm a little concerned about that; I'll explain why. If you earned 101% of the minimum wage, you always got the mobility bonus of €2,000. Soon, every employee, if I understand correctly, will receive wage subsidies if he gets less than the minimum wage, plus either the mobility bonus or the wage cost advantage. That wage cost advantage is also €2,000. Today we are discussing the mobility bonus instrument for a vulnerable group. We make €2,000 extra available for Wajangers, by the way, less than in the past to pull employers over the line to do something for this group, which is more complicated for them. So we are giving that vulnerable group extra support on the labour market. Later, however, the same benefit will go to other employees who earn between 100% and 120% of the WML and who have no restriction. I am a big supporter of a premium advantage, but the effect now seems to be that the extra support in the back for someone with a disability disappears. After all, other workers also receive this support. I would like to give that to those other workers, but in fact we are linking the vulnerable group with the other workers, rather than helping that group. I ask the Secretary of State to discuss this in detail. I am very much in favour of equalising, but the extra support in the back seems to me to have disappeared in this case. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u99	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party is positive about the law we are discussing here tonight. He is going to help fill the 125,000 jobs that the government has agreed with social partners in the social agreement. He will also help to create sheltered workplaces for people with the greatest distance from the labour market. And that's good. I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment that the EUR 100 million extra currently earmarked for sheltered work will be 'earned' in the sense that the money will only be granted if sheltered areas are created. That happens automatically with the no-riskpolis, because you can only shut it down if you realize a workplace. The Secretary of State is also going to do this for the remainder of the 100 million euros. I am also pleased with the stick behind the door that the Secretary of State has shown in her letter accompanying the third letter of amendment; a stick behind the door in the sense of legal anchoring. I do have a clearer question about that. In the small debate with Mrs Karabulut, it seemed that the Secretary of State might not be able to see if municipalities are upset with the construction of these sheltered areas for a year, so at the end of 2016. I would ask the Secretary of State to do so earlier, preferably as soon as possible. In fact, we have already noted that many municipalities are lagging behind; hence the EUR 100 million extra. I don't think it's necessary to wait another year to see if they've gotten a little more upset. If the Secretary of State can promise that this will happen more quickly, earlier in 2016, this may also be a concession to Mrs Karabulut. In any case, I would appreciate it if the results were measured earlier. I have one more motion. The Secretary of State has said something about this subject, but it is important that there is no misunderstanding about it. That's why I'm happy to file the motion. It was co-signed by Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan of the VVD. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, according to the Cabinet, the financial resources now associated with the mobility bonus, after the five-year period provided for in the law (i.e. 1 January 2021), "may be used for other labour market instruments in the tax and contribution sphere";]] [[Whereas, from that point on, the use of these funds is more likely to be made specifically for the target group "jobs appointment' or "quota' (if introduced at the time);]] [[calls on the Government to use the above financial resources from that date specifically for the target group "job appointment' or "quota' (may be introduced at that time or at any time thereafter) and to do so in the form of a bonus, discount or any other financial instrument for the benefit of the employer employing someone from the target group,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kerstens and Mr Nijkerken-de Haan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34194-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u100	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Members of your Chamber for their second term, starting with Mrs Nijkerken. This was indeed a special way to make a maiden speech. Like Mr Kerstens, Mrs Nijkerken asked when I was going to look at the number of sheltered workplaces. Mrs Karabulut also asked for this. I intend to do this before the summer of next year. Then the inspection can report properly and before the summer we can, in consultation with local authorities, look very closely at what is going on. I assume that municipalities will then be building sheltered areas. Mrs Karabulut asks me how I deal with the questions of the people she has put forward in the first term. I suggest that we pay attention to this in the AO. I also answered some of those questions. Of course, I also receive letters from people who raise similar questions; I also answer them. Please put this back to the AO. Mrs Karabulut asked a specific question about the situation around Hameland. In response to her written questions, I informed her in writing that, in the case of Hameland, the municipalities in question are inclined and that the resources of the Christmas motion can also be used. We are now in the process, together with Cedris and the trade union movement, of looking at all the plans that SW companies have submitted on that point. We are also looking at what the various regions have submitted. The same applies to this region. This does not alter the fact that the municipalities in question really have a leading role to play in this regard. I want to be clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u101	That's right. This has already been underlined by the new Participation Act. The issue now is that a decision has been taken to shut down a good company without a clear alternative. People are rightly very concerned about this. When assessing these plans, can the Secretary of State pay particular attention to the situation at the SW company Hameland? It may not be necessary, but maybe municipalities are missing something. Perhaps the extra attention and intensive study by the Secretary of State may help to bring this matter to a successful conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u102	Mrs Karabulut knows that I think it is very important that we maintain the infrastructure of social work companies as much as possible, because these social work companies have a great deal of expertise to guide people to work, especially the people we are talking about tonight. There can be no misunderstanding about that. With Mr Kerstens' motion, funds have been made available, 30 million, which will be increased from the various regions to 60 million, in order to shape this transformation. In fact, it is not intended that social work companies should be 'deformed'. That is not Dutch, but it must be transformed. In this situation, as in all other situations, the leadership really lies with the municipalities. I will look into whether all the proposals are eligible for the funds available.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u103	I have no idea whether the municipalities concerned have made use of these additional resources. I don't know. Can the Secretary of State check if that's the case? Could it perhaps clarify the state of affairs in general, including the SW company Hameland? Again, I agree with the Secretary of State that the lead lies there. There is, however, a special situation. I think I can ask the Secretary of State, given her responsibility as Secretary of State and for the whole system, how it is going and whether it is true that there is at least a diffuse situation. Cedris is closely involved in this and shares the concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u104	I do not have much to add to what I said at first instance. The lead lies with the municipalities. All regions make use of the available resources. We have criteria for this and we use them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u105	I have a follow-up question on Mrs Karabulut's questions, also in relation to the SW company Hameland. I understand that the municipalities that form Hameland have used these funds, so they have submitted a plan. I'm assuming the Secretary of State is doing what she says she's doing. This means that if that plan provides for the phasing-out or dismantling of an SW company, then it is not eligible for the funds. It might help, however, that after that communication, the municipalities concerned will be given some time to consider whether they can submit a plan that can count on the approval of the State Secretary and that the SW company Hameland will help to transform into a future in which it can continue to play a role in the implementation of the Participation Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u106	It is "frapper toujours" but the lead lies with the municipalities. We are in the process of considering whether all the plans can pass the test in order to obtain resources. We are doing the same in this region. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Daar kan ik verder niet meer aan toe- of afdoen.]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u107	To clarify, there was a time limit for which the plans had to be submitted. Those plans have been submitted. If this plan is in between and it is rejected, then my request is for the Secretary of State to give this municipality some extra time to come up with a plan that will pass the test of criticism and thus not lead to the phasing out of Hameland, but can give it a role in the implementation of the Participation Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u108	I'm in the process of working with the trade union movement Cedris to look at all the plans. If that is appropriate, I am always willing to see if there is just a little more time needed to complete plans, but that is only me when it is appropriate. That's exactly what I agreed with my other two partners. Then I come to the motions that Mrs Karabulut has tabled. The motion in part No. 14 is about the harmonisation of the job coach, which should be regulated by law. That's what I've been working on. I'm not in favour of that, because we made good deals in The Work Room. So I'm going to have to dissuade this motion. The motion in part No. 15 deals with the broadening of the target population register. I also agreed to that. I have said that it is only when the quota is to be introduced, not now, not at the job meeting. So I must also advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 16 is about sustainable, fully-fledged workplaces. I too am of that opinion. So I leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. Mr Heerma underlined once again how essential it is that UWV and VNG, together with us, look again at the front door for the target groups and the front door for shelter. That's what we do. Of the young people, vso and pro, I said that we really want to bring the valve up. Dan was asked about the moment to talk about sheltered work. I want to do that before the summer of next year. Like Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Heerma also asked about LIV. This is a new instrument, which is now being discussed on the basis of the 2016 budget debate. We are in the process of looking at how that is in line with the mobility bonus. In 2016, that premium discount is just the way it is. Then we'll just pass her through. The people in this target group are entitled to wage costs subsidies. That helps, too. We still have to deal with that LIV. Then I am sure that the Chamber will underline that the interaction with this target group is a very important one. That underlining applies to me, too. You want me to put that down like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u109	The line is noted. Was this your term, Madam Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u110	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u111	Okay. We shall then listen to Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u112	I find this very complicated. We have already suspended this treatment once, but how can I judge what is happening here with the mobility bonus, which is being reduced for Wajangers, if I do not know whether there is at the same time a proposal from the cabinet and apparently the cabinet cannot explain to me whether that means that you get and that and the mobility bonus or that mobility bonus is due to expire? I have a strong impression that it is when I read the pieces. Can't the Secretary of State explain that? That's what I asked for at first. This also means something for the relative position of this target group. That is exactly what we have been discussing for two hours. So I find this very uncomfortable. How can I take a balanced position if I don't know what the effect of this is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u113	I didn't say LIV was a new instrument for nothing. I now propose to the Chamber that the mobility bonus be agreed for five years, so that the target group can be well helped and employers, too. Of course, it must be made clear how this is compatible when LIV is dealt with in terms of budget preparation. However, I would like to say to the Chamber that we will always ensure that the people we are talking about tonight are not left behind by LIV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u114	Finalizing, one short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u115	The question is not whether they are being put at a disadvantage. We offer an instrument to give these people a boost. There's a bill from the cabinet that's worth 0.5 billion. I don't understand why I can't get an answer to the simple question as to what that means for what we're discussing today. I can't find that in any of the pieces of the LIV either. So I just want to hear from the Secretary of State today whether the LIV and the mobility bonus will be held temporarily or not. That seems to me to be a question that is really on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u116	At least in 2016 you have the mobility bonus. As the LIV is now set up, employees with a wage between 100% and 120% of the minimum wage are entitled to LIV, as of 2017. That's $2,000. In the year of introduction, people in the target group are entitled to labour cost subsidies, bonus discount target group jobs appointment and LIV. I think this is quite a support for these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u117	Briefly, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u118	So the Secretary of State now admits that the fact that you get LIV doesn't affect the right to a mobility bonus. That's what she's saying now, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u119	Yes, and especially in the 2017 introduction year, people are entitled to wage costs subsidy, bonus discount target employment agreement and LIV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u120	The Secretary of State's answer leaves me a little surprised. What about 2018 and 2019, if it is so explicitly linked to 2017? The question of the Chamber was whether the LIV would be a competitive disadvantage for this target group. The Secretary of State now says: not in 2017. But what will happen in 2018 and 2019?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u121	The room still has to handle LIV completely. What is ahead tonight is the mobility bonus for this target group. There is no misunderstanding about that at all. One thing is as clear as glass, and that is that we all think that this group should not be put at a disadvantage and, more importantly, need support. So that's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u122	That's a very wonderful answer, isn't it? The Secretary of State begins with a very factual answer to Mr Van Weyenberg's question. She says this is in 2017. The follow-up question is then what will apply in 2018. The Secretary of State's answer is that we don't discuss LIV here. That should have been the answer in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u123	Mr Heerma has a point. I wanted to meet Mr Van Weyenberg. What you can see happening in 2017 is just an extra backup for this group of people. If one thing remains clear that this group of people holds extra backup.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u124	Of course, we are going to talk about that bill. At least the Secretary of State does not deny that there is a relationship here. Is it perhaps an idea to inform the Chamber before we have a vote on what relationship that is? I think that's relevant to know, too. Although I do put a different content into it, I do like to be able to see a little bit about the relationship between the two.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u125	As far as that clarity can be provided, I would be delighted to do so. The main point remains that the backrest stays upright.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u126	It's not just that the backrest stays upright. Does the Secretary of State exclude that using LIV makes all other facilities, or vice versa, impossible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u127	The LIV is indeed still to be treated. It would be really weird if I prelude to that. After all, the Chamber is going to find some of that. Now we are going to vote for a mobility bonus for this target group for five years. The interaction that Mrs Schouten rightly puts forward, between the various instruments on the subject of mobility bonus, wage costs subsidy and LIV subsidy, I will put on paper, as far as I can see now. However, we all know that the Chamber has not yet agreed to LIV. That is why, of course, I cannot say that the concrete is poured. However, I would like to convey to the Chamber the insight that I can provide from the department.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u128	It's true that we haven't dealt with LIV yet. That's a bit the easy part of this proposal compared to the Tax Plan that just came in. If only we had completed the debate, I would almost like to say to Mr Kerstens. The point is that we are going to be too late in dealing with LIV, that we will then come up with a regulation. That is what we want to prevent. I would therefore like the Secretary of State to rule out any deterioration in the target group compared to the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u129	Here's what I'm gonna suggest to the Chamber. I will send the House of Representatives a note before the votes in which I will forward to the Chamber the relationship between the mobility bonus and the LIV, as far as I can now colour it from the department, knowing that she has not yet said yes to the LIV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u130	And knowing that we are going to vote on this on Tuesday. Short day, I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u131	Thank God, Mr. Chairman. I'll make you a note. Mr Van Weyenberg has noted that implementation costs are also at stake when it comes to sheltered work. I can vouch for that. He says that, of course, these costs should not become too high. I agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u132	Mr Van Weyenberg, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u133	I asked for something else. I have asked the Secretary of State to indicate in the letter in which she responds to how she deals with this extra resources for sheltered work and how she is going to check it with municipalities, what is the cost of implementing it. So I was not concerned with the instrument of sheltering work, but with the system now being created by the additional means.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u134	It is good practice that we always declare an implementation test applicable to that, so that insight is provided. Then I'll get to the no-risk for five years. Indeed, the employers want security, but that is why we have an evaluation so that we can understand in three years' time whether this is a success. If it's a success, we're going to discuss with municipalities whether or not we're going through with this. We have now made that horizon clause, because municipalities, of course, also see it as something of restricting their policy freedom. I understand that, but they're very equestrian in that. I have answered Mr Kerstens' question and the fourth motion, which is part of No. 17, I can leave judgment room. I have already said yes to that. That brings me to the end of my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u135	That's great.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-11.u136	On Tuesday we shall vote on the legislative proposal, the amendments and the motions for resolutions. I thank the Secretary of State for her presence here.
