ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. Work must be rewarding. Someone who's going to work has to make a lot of progress. The difference between what a person costs a gross employer and what the employee gets net from it must be much smaller. A person for whom an employer now pays €11 per hour will have net but €7. This makes the announced ambitious tax reform for D66 extremely urgent. The problem, however, is that the VVD and the Labour Party are always pushing forward this reform. It stays with vague plans and free promises. So I was pleased that Minister Asscher made concrete proposals this weekend. He referred to a tax reduction for low-income workers and employers who employ them. That was also about time, because a year ago, on 14 April 2014, this minister made exactly the same proposal. When is this really gonna happen? I want to prevent us from standing here again in April 2016. There are 650,000 people unemployed in this country. So we need to make sure that this reduction of charges is finally going to happen. I am asking this Minister for butter with the fish today. I therefore have the following three questions for him. I assume that Minister was speaking on behalf of the entire cabinet this weekend and that there is therefore a concrete plan. Can the Chamber receive that plan this week? How much relief can workers and employers look forward to? I would like to hear the actual figures. How is this actually paid for? The Minister isn't going to raise the tax on people who just make a little more money to pay for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Van Weyenberg for his questions. This weekend, the Central Planning Bureau published a comprehensive report showing how to improve the labour market with various instruments. That is also necessary, because this cabinet wants more employment. In particular, it wants to address the problem that, at the bottom of our labour market, the difference between labour costs and what people earn has become so great that people do not get that job and are not hired. The report of the Central Planning Bureau shows that it is possible to do something about this. The government's starting point is equal distribution of income and economic growth and job creation. There are a number of measures that make both things possible. We are in favour of this. It is also precisely in line with the government's ambition to review the tax system, which involves shifting and alleviating the burden on labour, so that more people can return to work and find decent jobs in the labour market. As the Chamber knows, the Cabinet has promised to make proposals for that review before the summer. This had already been announced in the letter on the system review of the State Secretary this autumn. This report by the Central Planning Bureau confirms once again that people can make progress and receive more pay and that it can create more jobs if we start to levy the tax in a different way. That's exactly what we need.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-2.u3	Ambitions, ambitions. I think it's mostly vague. The Minister made concrete proposals this weekend. I complimented him on that. We can get on with that. But today, when I ask how much billion is involved and what the concrete plan is, the Minister is taking off. Apparently, there's no such plan. So I'm gonna ask him those questions again. I like to get a clear answer to that, because talk doesn't fill holes. I thought the cabinet was gonna speed things up. The documents must be sent to Brussels on 1 May. Well, I guess that's what these plans are all about. I ask the Minister once again: are they in it or are they not in it? The Minister only talks about low-income people. It is good to reduce the burden on that group, but will the Minister also ensure that people with a middle income receive the much-needed relief? After all, someone who earns net €11 also costs an employer €20 per hour. More work or careering is very low due to the high tax burden. We've had a lot of leveling parties. But is the Minister going to make sure that it finally becomes a celebration for low incomes and middle incomes? Is he still coming up with a concrete plan? Through these answers I get the feeling that they were beautiful ideas and great ambitions, but that there is still no concrete plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-2.u4	That makes me all the more grateful for this question from the D66 Group. The Central Planning Bureau is not talking about vague things, but has looked at what could work. Two things really jump out. One is wage costs subsidies or a reduction in the employer's contribution, especially in the case of low incomes, where the difference is so great. The Central Planning Bureau has calculated that this will create jobs. This leads to more jobs than other measures, without increasing income inequality. The second thing you see in the table of the Central Planning Bureau is that it creates extra jobs if you increase the employment discount, so the money you give back to people, and you focus on the people who don't have it that wide. I am very pleased with those specific points. The cabinet can work with that. The timing was already known to Mr Van Weyenberg, for today and after today. Before the summer, our Secretary of State will come forward with proposals for the reform of the system. This is extremely important. I am very pleased with what Mr Van Weyenberg says, rather than the adjectives he uses. I'm glad he says we're here for this. That is good, because the cabinet is looking for broad support for this reform of the system, looking for more work. We welcome the fact that D66 is so positive about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-2.u5	The Minister can use more rhetorical tricks, but the essence of my question is: where is this burden relief plan? The Minister promised a year ago. He's promising it today, too, but the plan isn't there. So I'm not excited at all. Since there are 650,000 unemployed, people now want to see these relief plans. The Minister can always count on the support of my group if the burden is reduced by a large and ambitious package. Last weekend, the Minister spoke fine words again, but unfortunately, today's actions are once again delayed. That's very disappointing. So the Minister actually says: we give it to the low incomes but not to the middle incomes. I just heard him say that. I don't think it's a good idea, so I hope I misunderstood the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mr Van Weyenberg does not hope at all that he has misunderstood me; he would like to misunderstand me, because that fits in with this round of questions. He's asking me how I feel about these plans. Well, they're good plans. By giving the employer who hires people some extra money back, you make sure there are more jobs. By giving people a little more in their wallet, you also make sure that there are more jobs. That's what the cabinet's for. That is why we are working on this reform of the system. The timing of this was and is known here. Before the summer we come up with proposals. Every week we can see that it is not yet time and that it is very disappointed. I read between the lines that D66 is enthusiastic, but it finds it complicated to express that. Better luck next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-2.u7	We witnessed a piece of D66's political theatre, which, with great passion, has so far supported all cabinet plans that have led to impoverishment, loss of purchasing power and job losses. That's just for the minutes. Then there are the proposals from the Central Planning Bureau itself. The CPB says it would create 7 000 jobs if 700 million, i.e. €100,000 per job, were given to employers. I can't imagine the Minister getting excited about this. I'd rather call it a fool. Does the Minister share this view and does he intend to ensure that people simply get this money into the wallet so that it is spent and thus attract domestic spending and thus actually create more jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-2.u8	This is, of course, about the discussion about how to organise the tax system in such a way that it provides more work. That's what the Cabinet is doing. That's what the Chamber wants. So it makes sense to impose lower burdens on labour and higher ones at other points, and to look specifically at wage costs in low incomes. The Central Planning Office is now showing that, in my opinion, this is a gain that you can do and that it will create additional jobs. The CPB also shows that it does not lead to greater income inequality, such as some of the other measures. That's a good thing. We are looking at our tax system. So you can change it so that it's more work. That is also the ambition of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-2.u9	The Group of the Party of European Socialists welcomes the commitment of this Minister for Social Affairs, who should lead to those who are left with more money and to employers who can take on more easily. This commitment must therefore lead to more jobs. In my view, it is also going to help in the fight against false self-employment, so that fewer people are forced to work under very poor working conditions. The specific question I have to the Minister is the following. The tax review must be paid. Now we know that a number of parties in the Chamber say: let us save some money on social security or on health care. I would like to hear from the Minister that at least this is not his intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-2.u10	The cabinet has very clear principles. We want a decent labour market and we want extra jobs. This is the purpose of the revision of the tax system. It will always have to consist of a part shift and a part load relief. The Secretary of State and the Minister of Finance have always indicated this. That space is now emerging as well. We see that the Netherlands is doing better economically. Well, then it's important to translate that so that everyone can experience it. It is certainly true that we must pay close attention to the underside of the labour market, otherwise we will see displacement by means of structures or displacement by under-paying migrant workers. There are all kinds of forms, while there is good work to be done. You can do something about that by helping the employer who wants to offer people a job. That's what this cabinet stands for. The Secretary of State is currently working on the plans. He consults the parliamentary groups on this. He's planning on coming back to you before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-2.u11	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber.
