ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. A horrible act: last weekend the Netherlands Ang Kiem Soei stood in front of a firing squad in Indonesia. He was shot. That is a cruel and inhuman punishment. D66, of course, shares the opinion of this cabinet. We are against the death penalty; for every act, for every person, anywhere in the world. We believe that every Dutchman who may be sentenced to death should be given extensive assistance: legal, practical and spiritual. We must go as far as we can to avoid a punishment of this kind. The cabinet has gone to that extreme. The diplomatic commitment was intense. Minister Koenders was on top of it. Until the highest level, attempts have been made to stop the execution of this sentence. My compliments for that, although it was unfortunately not to benefit. Our group therefore considers it more than right that the Netherlands has chosen to call the ambassador back for consultation. Minister Koenders also said that there would be consequences. Our group shares that sentiment. The question then is what consequences the cabinet has in mind. Is it true that the cabinet intends to travel to Indonesia in the short term? We would specifically like to ask this Minister whether, in so far as it is concerned, she can guarantee that the Netherlands does not contribute in any way to the judicial chain in Indonesia. If that is the case, let us use that money for organisations fighting for the abolition of the death penalty in Indonesia. Finally, what exactly does the cabinet do for the second Dutchman who is still in prison and possibly waiting for the same fate as Ang Kiem Soei? Can we expect a different attitude from Indonesia for him? Because it is quite remarkable that Indonesia does not want its own nationals killed in Saudi Arabia, and that the President of Indonesia at the same time refers to his country's own laws when the Netherlands appeals to him on that same death penalty.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Sjoerdsma for his comments and for the question he has put. The Netherlands has indeed gone to extremes. Like Mr Sjoerdsma, we are sad and shocked that Mr Ang was executed in Indonesia. It must also be a truly dramatic outcome for his family, who has been in uncertainty for so many years. We're thinking about them, too. Mr Sjoerdsma asks what this means, because Mr Koenders has said that the execution may have an impact on the relationship with Indonesia. We have recalled our ambassador from Indonesia. Indonesia's temporary agent in the Netherlands was summoned to the minister's office on Sunday. We are now talking to other countries whose nationals have also affected this cruel fate. With them, especially with Australia and Vietnam, we are looking at what we can do to broaden and strengthen the alliance that calls on Indonesia to establish a moratorium on the death penalty immediately. To this end, Mr Koenders will also be speaking in New York this afternoon with the High Commissioner for Human Rights. We would very much like to work together with those other countries. We want to form one front, if you will in our appeal to the President of Indonesia. But at the same time, of course, we also want to hear his impressions and recommendations from our recalled ambassador. That's gonna happen this week. On that basis, we will determine further steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-2.u3	I thank the Minister for her reply. I think it is clear that the Chamber and the Cabinet are in complete agreement on this point. The cabinet never wants this again and the same goes for the Chamber. The Minister lists what the cabinet still intends to do and what it has done. For that, again, my compliments. I would also like to congratulate you on your information to the Chamber. Much has certainly been improved since the last case in this matter, the Bahrami case. However, I would like a little more clarity from the Minister on the follow-up, for example on the second Dutchman. I think we all agree that we must do everything we can to prevent him from being affected by the same fate as Mr Ang. How will the coalition fight for the moratorium in Indonesia? Mr Koenders was, I believe, in Brussels yesterday. What actions can we expect? What support can we expect from our European colleague in this joint effort? As I said before, I find it strange that the President of Indonesia is trying to prevent the death penalty in other countries, but defends it in his own country. I also find it odd that the President may forget that Indonesia has committed itself to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. It says that the death penalty can only be applied to the worst crimes. The crime for which Mr Ang was convicted is not one of those most serious crimes. I'd like to hear from the Minister how she sees this. Finally. I also asked the Minister about a possible Dutch cooperation in the field of security and justice. If this already exists, I would like to see that commitment no longer goes to the Indonesian authorities, but to organisations working on the ground in Indonesia to abolish the death penalty.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-2.u4	About the second Dutchman who is now in death row in Indonesia, I can report that for him not all legal steps have been taken. I am thinking, for example, of a request for revision and, should that be the case, a request for pardon. Of course, he's getting good legal support. It is good to mention once again that our commitment to Dutch people in Indonesia on death row does not of course date from last week. We've been active diplomacy in that area for a long time. By the way, we have been actively appealing to Indonesia for some time to our horror of the death penalty. Mr Sjoerdsma asked what support we can expect. Of course, we can expect support from countries that have also been affected. I said something about that. The High Representative Mogherini has issued a statement. Germany has issued a statement. Yesterday, EU colleagues told Mr Koenders that they would naturally support us in resisting the death penalty. We are now discussing what concrete actions we will take with other countries whose nationals are involved. I assume that we can quickly make concrete statements about this. Then I come to Mr Sjoerdsma's final question. Can the current commitment be reversed towards NGOs and organisations fighting against the death penalty? That is what we are doing, not only in Indonesia, but also in the United States, for example. The Netherlands wants to oppose the death penalty widely. We are discussing this week with our ambassador but certainly also with the hopefully broadest possible coalition of other countries what concrete steps we will take. Of course the second Netherlands on death row also has all our attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-2.u5	My group also wishes to express its disgust at the execution of the death penalty on these people in Indonesia, including a Dutchman. Dutch policy gains credibility when the Netherlands continues to fight against the execution of the death penalty worldwide. It is, as the Minister rightly says, not only Indonesia but also an ally such as the United States and Saudi Arabia, China, Iran and a number of other countries. The first step towards abolishing the death penalty in the countries I have just mentioned and the other countries where it is still being implemented is a moratorium, suspending the implementation of the death penalty. It will remain in criminal law, but will not be implemented. That was the practice in Indonesia. I would like to ask the Minister whether, on the next visit to Indonesia, the cabinet would like to insist on this: to suspend the execution of the death penalty.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-2.u6	I would like to say that Mr Van Bommel very much. I think this is certainly the right route to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-2.u7	The Group of the Christian Union also appreciates the commitment of the cabinet. We appreciate all the efforts the cabinet has made to prevent this death penalty. We trust that the cabinet will also do everything for the second Dutchman who is currently on death row there. I have a follow-up question on Mr Sjoerdsma's questions. We seem to support the rule of law there. That's bilateral support. I would urge the Minister to consider whether we can redirect that money to private organisations. So I would like to put a freeze or a stop to that support, also in order to send a clear political signal. In this connection, I would like to say the following. It's a sidetrack, but it has to do with Indonesia.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-2.u8	You asked your question, Mr Voordewind. I give the Minister the opportunity to answer the question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-2.u9	As I said, we are looking at and discussing this week what steps are appropriate. We do that, among other things, with our ambassador who has been recalled, but also with others.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-2.u10	I have a second question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-2.u11	The Christian Union Group has a second question. You can ask your question, Mr Voordewind. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-2.u12	I ask the government in this regard regarding Indonesia to pay attention to the closure of the theological college in Jakarta, called Setia. This is another tightening up of Indonesian policy on religious freedom. That school, which is also financed by Dutch money, has been closed earlier. I would also like to draw attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-2.u13	I'll look into that with attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-2.u14	It is right that we should now focus on the dramatic end result, namely the death penalty that has been imposed. However, we would also like to know from the cabinet how we are actually dealing with justice. Several sites of our embassies still literally state: "The embassy cannot enter into another country's course of law." It's like our embassies are very reluctant. Not only is the end result dramatic; so is the course of justice. On this point, too, can the cabinet inform the Chamber a little more about the way in which, in such a situation, it is trying to make it a humane, humane course of justice, which is certainly not contrary to all the principles of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-2.u15	The Dutch embassies all over the world are doing what they can to assist the Dutch who are in prison. Sometimes that has to do with making visits. Sometimes it's about being visible in court and carefully monitoring a case. It is true that we do not interfere in the individual course of justice, but that does not mean that we do not have a position, so to speak, if we do not believe that the principles of the rule of law are being respected. We do so in all kinds of ways, by contributing to UN resolutions but also sometimes in a bilateral relationship. So if that's the issue, it's also in general really a subject of discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-2.u16	On behalf of the Labour Party, I would also like to express my horror here in this Chamber about what happened Saturday or Sunday, depending on where you were, to a Dutchman and, by the way, to five other people, because let us not forget that. Furthermore, congratulations for the way in which the cabinet has tried to prevent this horrible fact until the last moment and at the highest level. This, of course, requires a powerful signal. This is partly given and partly discussed in the coming days, but it also calls for smart diplomacy. A number of people have pointed out that we must prevent the Indonesians from being merely strengthened in their determination. I therefore ask the Minister whether there is any thought at that level as to what can be done by the Netherlands, but perhaps also at European and international level, to talk to the Indonesians about this moratorium in order to prevent more people from being executed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-2.u17	It is, of course, part of our commitment to achieving that moratorium. That's why you have to engage. That's what's going on at some point. How, with whom and at what time is this week discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-2.u18	Thank you for your answers and thank you for coming to the Chamber on behalf of your colleague.
