ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. On 2 May 2015, Aruba and the Netherlands signed an agreement to make the financial chaos in Aruba manageable. That could have been the basis for improvement. That agreement states, inter alia, by Decision No 3 that "In the 2015 budget, the recommendations of the Financial Supervision College (CFT), as set out in the response of 29 December 2014, are translated into concrete and well-founded measures, which can be implemented in time for the current year'. On 8 May, the President of the States of Aruba, Ms Lopez-Tromp, sent a letter to the Government asking for clarification because the States did not see in advance the text of the Government's letter and the agreement of 2 May. Then all the alarm bells must go off. The answer of the Aruban Minister of Finance is even more worrying. With regard to the recommendations on government revenue, the Government of Aruba sees "no reason to make substantial changes to these country regulations at this stage." I therefore come to the following questions. What treaty has this minister signed with Aruba? What's the value of these appointments? Did the Minister know that the Government of Aruba was not planning to take over the CFT's recommendations on Aruba's 2015 budget, certainly on the revenue side? What scope does the Government of Aruba have to give its own interpretation of the agreements made in this agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by saying that I am very pleased that we were able to reach good agreements with the Government of Aruba on 2 May. These are binding commitments aimed at temporary budgetary surveillance to ensure that Aruba's finances are balanced. In the letter sent to the States by the Minister of Finance, Bermudez, on 8 May, he wrote: "The government therefore closely monitors budget implementation in order to achieve a financing deficit of -3.7% of GDP in 2015, in line with the multiannual estimate. As I pointed out in the above-mentioned letter, the government will immediately take the necessary corrective action if it appears at some point that structural deviations are likely to occur in relation to the multiannual estimate." I'm glad to read that. Of course, you could also say: that is a fine intention, but is it then implemented? That is why it is so good that we have made these agreements. There will now be a College of Aruban Financial Supervision (CAft) which will be called upon when the budget is adopted. This College will review the budget and wonder if it is sufficient. The CAft can advise the Government of Aruba and, if necessary, the National Council of Ministers on this if it does not. In addition, the CAft can, for example, take the first quarterly report on the current year 2015. If it is then noted that the implementation, the implementation of the budget, is lagging behind the plans, the CAft can also give advice on this basis and say that additional measures need to be taken. I therefore believe that we have established a definitive system to ensure that the Aruban Minister of Finance is given extra support to bring the budget into balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister calls it a 'final proposal', but it is not. In the agreement, it is quite clear that the CFT's recommendations will be incorporated into the budget in a clear text. The Minister just literally writes in his answer that he does not intend to do so. So there is an agreement in which we agree that it is important for Aruba and for public finances, but the ink of the agreement is not yet dry, or there is an answer, because the States are worried. The minister writes again that he's just not gonna do it. He just literally writes that. Meanwhile, it turns out that Aruba's financial gap is even bigger. There is a hole of 2.2 billion Aruban guilders. Let me put that in perspective. The country's budget is about 1.5 billion Aruban guilders. Those 2.2 billion Aruban guilders that is about 1 billion euros are not collected taxes. The question is whether these can ever be collected again. We are talking here about structural injustices. In what perspective will the agreement now stand? In what way does the Minister expect Aruba to resolve this, especially now that the Minister for Finance of Aruba states that he is not going to accept the recommendations?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u4	If the budget is signed immediately by the Governor of Aruba, it is up to the CAft to assess whether the recommendations have been sufficiently taken on board. I am just so happy with the agreement because this means that everyone now has their own place in the order. It is not the case that the House of Representatives in the Netherlands is the supervisor of Aruban finances. No, we put the CAft in position for that. We can of course, with pleasure, discuss the numbers, but I think that we should really leave that task with the CAft. If that College advises the Government of Aruba on this matter, the Government may follow that advice. If the government does not want to do so, the CAft can of course act towards the National Council of Ministers. That's what I'm talking about by a closing system. It may well be that the CAft is giving further advice on this, but I do not want to anticipate that. That's really up to the supervisor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u5	I shall come back to the fact that the Dutch taxpayer is once again at risk. In the end, we make agreements with countries among ourselves. We assume that these agreements will be complied with, especially with regard to financial management. We have now been asked ourselves because there is a problem with the finances. The agreement has been concluded in order to prevent the financial situation from getting any further out of hand. Now it appears time and time again that the commitments made are not being complied with. Furthermore, it appears that there are greater setbacks than we had already thought. So the risk for the Netherlands is only getting bigger. I am very concerned that the agreement concluded is not a hard one. How hard is the minister's agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u6	There is not so long now a new Minister of Finance, Mr Bermudez. It has written to the States of Aruba that it will take the necessary corrective action without delay, should it appear at some point that there are structural deviations from the multiannual plan. The commitment of the Aruban Minister of Finance is therefore very clear. If things are different, then the CAft is completely in position to ring the bell at any time and say: this threatens to go wrong. That is important for the reason given by Mr Bosman, because we in the Kingdom are ultimately jointly responsible for good governance in the countries and want to prevent things from going wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u7	The Minister has said more. It sees no reason to make substantial changes to these country regulations at this stage. That was a recommendation from the College of Financial Supervision. That recommendation's just there. I will conclude with the following question. Can the Minister assure me that there can be no question of a loan from the Netherlands to Aruba as long as this financial disorder exists?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u8	Yes. There is also no request from Aruba to qualify for the current tender in the Netherlands. So this is not the case at the moment. I hope, by the way, that there will be a moment when it can be discussed. This would greatly alleviate the situation of public finances in Aruba, but the budget must first be in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u9	I thank the Minister for his answers and his coming to the Chamber.
