ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. I quote, "You can hit your wife." "Turkish-Dutch politicians are traitors." "Don't vote for gays and Armenians." "Victims are permitted against alevite, Armenian and Kurdish demonstrators." At the end of 2015 it eventually led to the Minister of Education finding that the measure was full and that the position of the rector of the Islamic University had become untenable. It would also make a law to deal with this kind of abuses. Unfortunately, we are almost a year further and the rector has once again made statements that cannot be digested. Last month he spoke the words: "Kurds his dogs and I pray for him who hunts them." He also said ditches should be dug for the same Kurds. Last weekend, a leading Kurdish human rights lawyer in Turkey was murdered. The Rotterdam rector reacted directly via Twitter with the message "Who lives by the sword, dies by the sword." Even in Turkey there is a lot of fuss about this Rotterdam rector, but in the Netherlands this man can spit his gall about everything we stand for. Despite all this, there is a large sign with the NVAO stamp at the entrance of the school, i.e.: this school has been approved by the Dutch government. I have the following questions. 1. Does the Minister agree with the VVD that there is no place in the Netherlands for educational institutions that oppose anyone who has a western lifestyle, what this rector does? 2. A majority of the Chamber has already expressed its wish to withdraw the accreditation of this institution. I call on the Minister immediately to proceed with this motion now and not to wait another day. What is the Minister going to do to withdraw the accreditation of this school as soon as possible and to ensure that it is no longer approved by the Dutch government? 3. The Minister promised almost two years ago to come up with a law that would allow schools to close that do not meet social responsibility. Where's the law? When is the Minister finally going to take action?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Let me say first of all that I agree with Mr Duisenberg that the way in which the rector of Islamic University Rotterdam (IUR) speaks of political opponents and social phenomena is unacceptable. I understand that you can still argue about the interpretation of his most recent words, but that's not really the point. The point is that he is the rector of a higher education institution and thus a figurehead of academic freedom and responsibility. This includes a social mission. I agree with Mr Duisenberg that it is therefore very undesirable that this should happen over and over again. I've addressed the IUR on several occasions. I have urged the Supervisory Board to take action. I've had the inspection spoken to the IUR several times, recently, two weeks ago. I note that this has not so far led to the desired change in behaviour. I can also tell you that I no longer have faith in the principal. The question is, what can you do? I've been considering pressing charges against the principal myself, but I can't do that personally because I'm not personally disadvantaged. However, I can call on others who are hurt by the statements to press charges. I can also look at whether there is any reason to withdraw the accreditation, which brings me to Mr Duisenberg's second question. That's what I asked the NVAO last year. It has initiated an investigation and concluded that there is no reason to describe accredited training as training of insufficient level. From a quality point of view, they are sufficient. I can't go against the NVAO. However, in reply to Mr Duisenberg's third question, I can draw up a legislative proposal which will allow me to intervene in the case of unpaid institutions, which is the IUR, if one fails to comply with the social mission. I sent that bill to the Council of State in mid-September. I expect the advice soon. I hope to be able to send the bill to the Chamber before Christmas. I hope that this will be dealt with very quickly. I would add that I will not hesitate to use that bill when it is in force.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-3.u3	I thank the Minister for her answer. I hear her say all sorts of things: unacceptable, unwanted, no more trust. However, I still have a number of questions, first of all about the bill which the Minister says is coming before Christmas. Why did that take so long? It has been two years since the Minister promised this for the first time. Secondly, accreditation. The NVAO doesn't approve of its research, which was, by the way, a regular study, but we all know that one of the important criteria in accreditation is the so-called "educational learning environment." You're not gonna tell me that if the figurehead of this school gets to make this kind of statements in, like, a year, that doesn't affect the educational learning environment. Does the NVAO ever look on Twitter or on this principal's blogs? Thirdly, I feel that the Minister is hiding behind these rules. What does she think of the Dutch government's approval seal at the door of this institution? That is the approval seal of the Dutch government, which stands for the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-3.u4	As for the first question, I announced last year that I would come forward with a legislative proposal. Perhaps Mr Duisenberg knows that this bill contains several elements. Yeah, making a bill takes time. That's what you need to coordinate with different departments, with others. It's been in the Council of State since September. I am therefore now dependent on the Council of State whether it can indeed be sent to the Chamber before Christmas. It won't be me. With regard to the other question, I note that the NVAO is an independent administrative body with an independent responsibility for assessing quality. When the NVAO examined these programmes, I indicated to her that she would also pay attention to the social discussion that is taking place. The NVAO finally concluded that the quality was in order. I can't argue with that. Then I wouldn't stick to the agreements that fit our quality management system. So I am not hiding behind these rules, but I too have to keep administrative and legal agreements. Once I have the opportunity, with a legal basis, I will use it if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-3.u5	Finally. The answer to my question on the revision of the law is clear. We'd like to see the bill before Christmas. I have two comments on accreditation. Firstly, I call on the Minister to use her power to launch a specific investigation leading to the withdrawal of accreditation. That is really something quite different from the regular research the NVAO is doing right now. The Minister's statement would also be interpreted quite differently. Secondly, I ask the Minister to give her judgment on whether the educational environment is affected by this rector. So apart from the NVAO: is the educational learning environment of this institution assessed? And finally...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-3.u6	Your time is up. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-3.u7	I asked the NVAO, when she examined the training courses, to look specifically at the statements made by that rector and to involve them in all the fuss. The NVAO concluded that it could not find any reason to question the quality of education and to give an insufficient degree of education in the practical training and its design. Then there may be all kinds of other things to discuss, including the fact that the rector is the figurehead of an institution and that we, Mr Duisenberg and I, consider the statements of the rector to be irresponsible. However, I cannot appeal to the NVAO. She did her job. The educational environment can therefore have an impact, but this is not necessarily the case, because the NVAO looks at the training and thus does not weigh the remarks of a director of an institution. On the basis of a very comprehensive quality management system, she looks at how education works and whether it is socially responsible. That is exactly the missing link; it is not in the law for uncosted education. We're gonna change that now. If that's what happened, I have a legal basis to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-3.u8	I am incredibly in favour of the freedom of schools, teachers and rectors. They must be able to say what they want, but, of course, there are limits. If you decide people like the Kurds for dogs or gays, you cross a border, especially if you are the figurehead of a university. This has been going on for years. I really think that politics should prevent her from being a fool and that the principal can say: I can shout what I want; politics does nothing anyway. That must really be over. Now the Minister says that there will be a bill and that this will hopefully even come before Christmas. That is good, but the question is whether the Minister can guarantee that she will be able to put an end to the dean's abject statements with that bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-3.u9	I have already indicated what is to be said in that bill, namely that it is also necessary for uncosted institutions to show social responsibility. If that is in the law and there is an institution such as the IUR, which is unable to bear that social responsibility, then I can intervene. I have just said that I will not hesitate to use the law and therefore intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-3.u10	It's not the first time we've talked about this principal's statements. With these reprehensible statements, this man is absolutely not worthy of the rectorship, as he calls it. The Minister has already announced that she will come forward with a bill. The rector has now shown once again that he does not care about a majority in the Chamber asking for the accreditation to be withdrawn. That is why the question is how likely it is that the Minister will consider this time to intervene and to say: until here and no further, rather than waiting for a legislative proposal to conclude that we are probably not going to be able to do anything again. As far as I am concerned, the border has now been reached and the Minister must intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-3.u11	It's just the question of how. Perhaps Mr Mohandis knows other instruments than those I have already used, except to call upon the Supervisory Board. I can call on people who feel discriminated against to report it again and I can send the inspection back to them two weeks ago, I did so again, but I do not expect that to lead to any other results. That is why I would rather put my energy into getting that bill to the Chamber as soon as possible. And then, I hope, listening to the Chamber, I am actually going there on the assumption that the Chamber will deal with this bill with the utmost urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-3.u12	During that discussion, Mr Mohandis will answer your question. At least that's what I'm assuming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-3.u13	On behalf of the VVD, I wholeheartedly support Mr Mohandis' appeal to the Minister to make quick and quick progress. I'm glad she firmly distanced herself from the principal's words. However, this is an unpaid institution in higher education. We often talk here about the formation of citizenship in secondary education and vocational education, but also there are private educational institutions. To what extent does the Minister intend to include in the legislative proposal that these institutions should also be fully aware of this sense of social responsibility? Surely it is not possible for an educational institution to use our country's freedom to question, as it were, the freedom of others?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-3.u14	I agree. However, let us have this debate when the legislative proposal is in place. There's an omission in the WHW, the Higher Education and Scientific Research Act. That's why we need this bill. If there is any further need, I do not have it ready at the moment, and I am sure it will come out with that bill. In any case, I agree with you that citizenship education means that students and students receive lessons in what we share as values and values, which are the basic principles of the rule of law and what you can expect from what an institution's figure shows, including academic freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-3.u15	Thank you for coming to the Chamber and thank you for your answers.
