ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and all other governors to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u2	Madam President. Whether you were at the beach volleyball around the Hofvijver this summer, at a tallship at the IJ or at a sand castle in Scheveningen, you were quickly lost in the hustle and bustle of such happy experiences if you didn't see a shining beacon in time. In these autumn days, the cabinet is now scattering with growing economic data on our home front as if the image of an economy based on experience full of happy forecasts, tourism and recreation were permanently the main focus of our collective existence. It is wrong to think that we would still work too hard and too much in this country. And that sun, wind and a cozy snack with drink outside the cares on sunset boulevard vanish by itself. "Though I" may want a slimming cure, but the risk-aversion of legislators and numerous authorities, mixed with the fervent desire of many people not to bear many risks of life themselves, does provide a very sandy and watery base under our common future. Sure, we like to lean abroad, but the proportions there are not that stable. And service really has to be more than just letting someone else do the job through an app. When we returned from our one true holiday, we therefore returned constructively but not naïvely to our responsibilities in view of the changing challenges. With a heart full of compassion and a head full of worries. Concerns about a crumbling society, about degradation of values that have been at the heart of our civilisation for centuries, about protecting families with their children, about insecure care, about a fairer economy that provides more work and about maintaining and restoring security. De Thronerede started with the happy observation that Dutch people are always able to resist the beacons when circumstances so require. The 2016 budget had the cabinet present "sober" in the vortex of today's era. I would prefer to call the publication on Prince's Day sobering. There is a sobering gap between the presented euphoria about the state of reform at the Binnenhof and many often sad human and economic experiences outside. The situation in Europe must not be ignored, because it was there that the building of peace brought prosperity. It is now necessary to step up together again, by implementing joint core actions in words and deeds. Defence of freedom, security and peace. Human, temporary emergency shelter for genuine displaced persons from outside the European borders. And work together in interdependence to restore and expand prosperity within and beyond those borders to build a firmer soil under the existence of everyone in the world around us. That is the task that emerges behind the tragic lines of people who walk directly from Holms and Kobani to Ter Apel and Budel. International crises hit us here on the street and at home. The European Union shakes its foundations, the great achievement of freedom of movement in it is staggering and the euro crisis is obscured by Draghi's bubble money. The euro area has been struggling for years with lagging economic growth, with mutual confidence being lost, with rules being trampled on, and with government leaders nothing but to continue selling mud as a breakthrough every time, see the Greeks. Or are they going to keep their promises from now on since Tsipras recently won the elections so that we too can give our support again? China isn't feeling well, western debts barely offer ammunition against new recessions and Britain's flirting with departure from the Union hangs over the market like a sword of Damocles. Anger doesn't offer hope for a better life; not on the day when a sobering report on the MH17 disaster is presented, nor when it comes to the house-high waves of time. It'll help to worry and act. In the meantime, this cabinet has also promoted the VOC mentality of the past as a medicine. That is not a wrong view of our common past, but behind the horizon there is a different future now than in the time of Rembrandt. We must continue to work for a civil society that is respectful and unfettered. A society that stands more on its own feet than that of the State. What more mature thoughts than that there would be no need for a uniform vision of that? In this budget, it cannot build a Santa Claus party with a white eye or keep the curtains closed in order to avoid the differences between Mr Samsom and Mr Zijlstra. The Throne Address recommends that "Europe should work better and focus on key issues." This is an act of death and not an active contribution to a more credible Europe. What will the Netherlands contribute to more peaceful co-existence with Russia, what will it do to limit the im and explosions in the Middle East, how will we combat European degradation and how will we help fight terrorism and barbarism better? Can we hear from the cabinet here and today a little more concrete than the slim text 'a Europe that works better and focuses on key issues'? It is good that a provisional distribution of displaced persons across Europe has now been agreed. The cabinet rightly supports European agreements on the safe reception of displaced persons in their region, but how? The cabinet also says it supports more robust European external border surveillance and secure registration in hotspots, but how can this be done without extensive data exchange? The Balkans can be considered safe for return. Right? What trade agreements are being adapted in the absence of cooperation on the return journey, what Europe indicated? The cabinet promises 10,000 more simple homes. The rest of the intruders are going back where? Or are they staying here in an AZC? The European Council of Ministers decided that all measures should be taken to ensure that "irregular migrants" actually return, "including pre-removal detention (...) to prevent the abuse of rights and procedures." How's the Cabinet gonna do this? These are the questions to which the citizens concerned in this country now want a concrete answer. Europe not as a bogeyman, but as a necessary unity to answer these kind of intrusive questions together quickly and conclusively. The briefcase of Lieftinck as a museum piece was talking, but let the cabinet be careful not to become a museum piece itself, as the coalition appears to be so divided. Perhaps a harsh smuggler of human beings promises the new paradise at a welfare office here, but it's not that beautiful. Reception of displaced persons can be better based on the prospect of safe return to home and fireplace, where you will be needed later. In the meantime, you are welcome here, even if the collective reception facilities are necessarily limited. The commitment of many, many volunteers is also heartwarming. As residents of this country, we want to stand together in the valuable traditions of mutual respect and cooperation. Not in each other's homes, at work or elsewhere, but dealing with each other respectfully according to the rules and traditions of our culture. So decent emergency accommodation, emergency courses in Dutch language and the possibility of working without the corresponding rule row. Work may also be offered by public authorities. All this after a quick treatment procedure with a single clear yes or no in response to the question whether you can stay safe here for a while or not. We must not wait for, but we must work on the necessary adaptation and reinterpreting of a dated UN Refugee Convention. Families can unfortunately not be reunited as long as temporary stays bulging out here. Evil wills are not welcome here and economic refugees must be helped with more effective development cooperation and with genuine free trade with their countries of origin.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u3	I hear Mr Brinkman talking about a necessary adjustment or re-interpretation of the Refugee Convention. What exactly does he mean by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u4	By that I mean that in the course of the years cases after cases have been included in the interpretation, that the treaty was written at a time when people's movements like this did not occur so intrusively. I also mean that we must consider how it is interpreted in some parts of the world, particularly in countries which we consider to be serious. That is all reason to look at it very carefully, but we cannot wait for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u5	I do not think this statement is understandable enough to know which direction Mr Brinkman is going to take. Does he also mean that people would be wrongly protected?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u6	We must ensure that those who are entitled to it are protected. However, I have given a series of examples of people who are unable to gain access under the Treaty. There are also countries that do sign the treaty, but do not comply with it as we would like to see it. They'll get away with it without sanctions. This is another aspect that we could look at a little more strongly and which has also been agreed in recent European agreements, which is why I am asking the Cabinet how it is dealing with the statements in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u7	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u8	I note that Mr Brinkman at least gives the impression that people are wrongly given international protection here. He says that other countries must comply better with the Refugee Convention. I do not hear any arguments in his story as to why the Refugee Convention would not work or be adequate at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u9	I am also talking about interpretation. I mentioned the element of safe countries. Read again exactly what I said. I think we still owe a lot of discussion to each other. I was talking about genuine free trade with the countries of origin. It's been floating in the air for years. Does the government dare to take this alone or with some neighbouring countries out of the basket full of empty promises? We commend the cabinet for taking advantage of the slightly more favourable wind to underline the responsibility of people and society through a few billion euros of lower costs. I am not going to sit here and complain that the cabinet itself has increased the burden by 20 billion over the past few years, even if that is true. We want to see work and economy of ordinary men and women better and truly rewarded in the Tax Plan. That really is a fairer economy! One-time make-up for cabinet-dominated pensioners is not helping enough. This also applies to symbolic and rattling cabinet proposals to tax capital formation, while the better-off than boxhopping or moving will be able to take their own job to the detriment of whose income from work, once or twice, or not even a tonne on the bank, is really less wide. Public expenditure continues to rise and the structural deficit is not much closer to zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u10	I hear Mr Brinkman making a few comments on the new capital return tax proposed by the cabinet. In the cabinet's plans, are the small savers not being treated with more care than is currently the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u11	No. The symbolic measure leads to boxhopping. The Secretary of State also acknowledged this in an official consultation. We have also had the necessary calculations carried out which you will hear from us when discussing the Tax Plan. It then appears that in addition to the tax measures, all kinds of other measures are simply worked through or compensated once. Structurally, however, you stay in trouble. Think of a lot of elderly people who want to supplement their pension with a small amount of capital. They are reduced by measures taken by the Cabinet in the second pillar. It is about the net effect: what do people find at home in cash?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u12	How fair is it that we are currently hitting the small savers for whom Mr Brinkman rightly feels a great deal of sympathy with a fictitious return of 4% a year, when we all know that you are far from achieving that on savings at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u13	In terms of ambition, we are looking for the same thing, namely an improvement. However, it is the means you use. In the transfer for once or twice we see that the bar is disappointing. We shall consider an improvement. How to do that technically, we can discuss with the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u14	It is good to hear that Mr Brinkman shares the cabinet's intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u15	At the point of one to two modes, yes. Mr. Chairman. There are also more and more expenditure on health care and social security. We are concerned that too much sunshine is now being proclaimed, while rain clouds are again visible before the forthcoming elections. That is why we are already asking for a mid-term financial balance sheet in spring 2016 in which the structural budget space will be more visible from 2017 onwards than it is now. We're dealing with facts. We don't want image manipulation. We recognise that reform is not done with one stroke of steering wheel. In the meantime, the cabinet itself will be reluctant to acknowledge that it has given rise to our warnings against overly easy decentralisation in the care sector. There is the export support tube to the government's economic policy. Now there is a discount on the budget for care or childcare and then again there is something extra. There is no structural calculation of high oil prices and equally lasting natural gas dividends from Groningen. In addition, everyone with common sense is wondering how the additional immigration costs can be covered. "Amongst other things, cover for this was found in the use of GNI macro-vallers that were brought to 2015 via a cash drawer." Misty texts about who pays what are not a shining beacon in a time of anger, fear and uncertainty, not even at the time of an advisory referendum on Ukraine, but at the end of the day. We attach a firmer foundation to the work of our rule of law: police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the judiciary and NFI. It rained here comments from the cabinet that it would listen well to our warnings for erosion. The opposite is the case. We call for this to be met today, so that our proclamation and support against crime and other insecurity can simply resume its work and the already shaky confidence in our rule of law is not further undermined. Cutting back on small successes in the fight against crime is a wrong recipe for an increasingly persistent disease. We will not support that; we will not support money! It is also irresponsible and unbelievable at this time that soldiers should call 'pang' because their ammunition is running out. We do not want a pawn society and we do not want to go back to a Cold War, but we do want ping to work seriously with more than a handful of cut flowers, together with the Russians and others, for more peaceful and more humane relations that will reduce defenseless crap and unwanted movements of people. What will be the next concrete step towards more joint European defence effort? As predicted, demographics choose...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u16	This was a plea by Mr Brinkman for more money for the Defense Department. Of course, that's his right, but he referred to our soldiers having to say puff and poof because there's no ammunition. However, I heard the Secretary of Defense yesterday say that there is no such problem. If there is no such problem, I do not think it is wise to mention it here. The army has enough ammo. The question is, who's gonna shoot it all with it? The advantage of a puppet society is that no one is dead in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u17	I notice that you are not listening very carefully, because I just said that we do not want that. I think it's the first time you've taken the Secretary of Defense's word for it. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of Defense himself whether you're right about what you're saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u18	I think it is good practice that we ministers always take their word for it, otherwise we must take action. The Minister said yesterday that the problem of ammunition was enlarged and that it does not exist at the moment. Therefore, I do not think it would be very useful to increase it in this debate. It is better to have a debate on the basis of facts rather than a fact-free debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u19	I saw the minister shake his head, but it could have been fatigue. We'll find out later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u20	I got very big ears from our Lord and my parents: the Minister said that the ammunition problem has been solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u21	You and the Lord, that is a very special relationship. I'm gonna think about it. As predicted, demographics, and the world's population, choose their own development. Earlier, the cabinet prophesied lower house prices and sufficient housing, but the real reality is another. What is the cabinet going to do about this other than sit down in the emergency housing of the Binnenhof to be restored? The cabinet makes the second pillar fall under the pensions, which puts pensioners, year in, year in, year out of unindexed, in trouble. We would like to co-operate on more of the young and old's own control over their own supplementary pension, but without forced shopping. We will not support further virtual risk-avoidance restrictions in the financial review framework for pension funds. Real confidence in pension commitments and therefore many consumers in the cabinet have now been put to the test. We are certainly not uncritical supporters of the virtual, flash capitalized economy. Why, however, is there a capital requirement after a capital requirement and are there anti-risk measures left over for institutions, companies and individuals, while real returns and useful investments are literally and figuratively close to home? Those who want to improve the world must start with common sense. Of course, it is not easy for citizens, shareholders and stakeholders to actually justify themselves more at their own expense and risk in return for real burden relief and simplification. That is the only right path, but it is still too much hidden behind the wrongly barricaded horizon. What is the situation with the government's commitment to consider how this new energy source can be placed further away at sea, or should we fear that this is also an empty undertaking? Everywhere in the world, Dutch people dredging space at sea. Rows of windmills along the Afsluitdijk would make us proud in this new era as Rembrandt at the time on his father, but no, the cabinet prefers to distribute them everywhere heavily subsidised. Beware, that leads to erosion of support under this policy too! (NL) Mr President, you said by farewell to this Chamber in its previous composition that that Chamber rejected only 8 of the 990 draft laws which it had discussed. The CDA was against only about 30 designs in the current cabinet period. These facts indicate that this house, and we in it, is doing the work conscientiously without making any objections, because it is in fashion or would be supposed to be an opposition, or because this Chamber might even be superfluous. None of that. We are not waiting for an oblong virtual study of the legal and electoral foundations of our state system. It's fine that there's a quick and simple space for more personal face than just that of a national list-taker. And with a little less variation in popular opinion in parliament, there still sounds enough polyphonic. Sending a cabinet with less hands tied in advance can also help in a divided country. However, the real problem in The Hague remains that we need to take the responsibility of companies, institutions and citizens more seriously and that we need to be more careful in the implementation of what the government continues to do. What lessons does the cabinet draw from the recent very critical reports by the Court of Auditors and the Ombudsman on this matter? During its brisk existence, the cabinet took a number of necessary measures decisively and also led to the lightning of an increasingly shaky parliamentary majority. Now that at night and at night it is starting to go out, it is becoming necessary at this stormy time to shine a bright light on the sandbanks and dangerous currents that are already emerging. We warned against student computational behaviour: borrowing from the government becomes so cheap that maximum borrowing is always profitable when you put the borrowed money in a savings account. The cabinet said it won't, but according to the Nibud, a third of the students do. It's not that bad with the problems on the track, the cabinet says. The leaves are not even falling yet, but Mr Van Boxtel is already pulling the emergency brake. The cabinet previously tried to guide changes in curative care along this house, but they seem to have disappeared in the waves of resistance. Market forces in the care sector and the restriction of the free choice of doctors that has been rejected here would be patched up with as many as 21 legal repairs. The health insurance companies should be allowed to award a pgb. How and when will these wrecks be recovered? Hopefully not in noticeably growing waiting lists that appear behind the abracadabra in care rates. How much care per older person really remains in 2013-2017? Yes, reduction of healthcare expenditure is easier said than done. The consequences of risky personal behavior with a ski or racing boat, for example, cannot be shared, while carers are incomprehensiblely fined! Last year, the cabinet provided assumptions in its tax plan about extra income. What really happened to that? How is this well dampened other than with statistical windfalls by a attracting economy? The cabinet said a while back that people who are getting divorced could count less on the community. This also seems to have gone up in smoke. The cabinet promised more scope for activity by people themselves in their working environment, but the budget of the diligent and steadfast minister of EZ is full of new rules, monitoring, certification and control in the agro-complex to be simplified. Europe does not insist on rules bordered with gold, but unfortunately EZ does not like it. Again, things are getting better in our economy. We also like to see that sun shine in the water. Extra money for entertainment in the nursing home and a walk outside does indeed give caregivers and nurses more time to give their caring hands to patient and bed. But now that many municipalities don't know what to do with the tasks they intend to do, it's time for a clearer answer to the question of how many hours of government care and how many collective beds will really be ready for this strongly ageing society. That question should not be put on the table until after the next Lower House elections! There is so much more, but time is running out for this agenda of the future. Entrepreneurs and financiers are much more needed than is often assumed today. It is precisely in a fairer economy and a more valued society that cooperation and reflection with every form of Capital in the 21st century is urgently needed to help each other get more work done. Redistribution has never shown lasting future value, neither has tax evasion and benefit fraud, neither in the Anglo-Saxon country nor in Rhineland. We'll come back to the Financial Reviews. VOCs already knew: as soon as the ball is lifted, you don't have to float, but to move forward towards a safer harbor. Wending in thought is necessary. This agile Prime Minister will be the first to acknowledge this, now that he will turn himself in front of the mirror in the Tower ten times before making one more empty promise. A cabinet that succumbs to the tyranny of discord will lose more than its authority; then its light will fade. What measures will the Cabinet therefore take before the shattering electoral mess really breaks loose? Really, the often volatile virtuality at the Binnenhof is fundamentally different from the unruly reality. Really, the cabinet, but even more so our country, does not float with the bunches to anchor in the brackish shallow between on the one hand a structurally too high permanent government deficit and on the other hand a shaky balance between different ideologies. In this rather areligiful time, staring at the cloud offers little perspective. Hopefully, a better calculation test will provide better prospects for the even more quantitative economy that fortune tellers expect us to see. But quality of life also raises other questions: commitment, taking time for something, rewarding economy. Good care for each other is more than hungry food, thirsty laving, naked dressing, aliens harboring, nursing sick, visiting prisoners or burying dead. Daily bread is not given on its own. It was particularly Rembrandt who depicted works and virtue as a two-unit hope-offering artistic and profound. Does the cabinet want that visual language back, with his half purchase of a very rich couple? Again, the Throne Address: The Dutch are able to resist the beacons if circumstances so require." Now the turnlight of the cabinet: not suffering, but leading. Over a year and a half waiting for a split opinion of the electorate is building a future on quicksand. The choice is not about hard against hard, but for heart and hard. New times demand a different light beacon and reforms are only really ready and where when the realities in question have changed materially. We remain constructive, but our support is not a tout prix. After all, Stemvee is not this house. So, unfortunately, the cabinet has not been allowed to rest between turbulent births. We will continue to shine our light accordingly Consistent, Similar and Attractive, and sincerely wish the Cabinet much strength in tugging its last pieces. Yeah, we're ready for other times.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u22	Mr. Chairman. In other words, we are all very concerned about the issue of refugees. In one municipality, reception takes place without significant problems, but in other municipalities this is accompanied by aggression and violence. Many Dutch people are concerned about the safety and viability of their streets, neighborhood, city or village. That this may escalate, like last weekend in Woerden, marks a low point in this situation. Of course, my group and I understand the legitimate concerns that exist, but violence and aggression are unacceptable. The same applies to the beating of houses and the threatening of politicians. That simply cannot be done now; it can never be done. It is clear that the Netherlands is having difficulty accommodating the large influx of refugees. The fact that this causes tension is also obvious, whether we are looking at the Orange or Purmerend. These concerns are evident too. However, naming the problems is not an art. The task of the government is to solve the problems. A social issue of this size and complexity requires a unified approach. That is why it is right and logical for political parties to come forward with concrete proposals. The cabinet is looking at these plans, weighing them up and taking into account decisions to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u23	naming the problems is of course very good, but what do you think of misrepresentation of the problems? I'm referring to the framing by your party mate Zijlstra, as if refugees were coming here because of an eyelid correction. You are well acquainted with the COA and with the COA scheme for asylum seekers. Zijlstra should know better, right? How do you feel that this kind of support is being undermined by misrepresentation of the problems, as if asylum seekers came here for very different reasons than for protection?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u24	The fact that an unfortunate example has been given does not alter the fact that it is a good thing that proposals are being made. If there's ever been a mistake, it's okay. You cannot blame the VVD for voting; I will come back to that in detail in my speech. If you'll let me finish my speech, you can hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u25	I still have one more question. You said that's a mistake sneaking in. That's what I'm really wondering. Then how did the coordination between you, Mr Zijlstra and Prime Minister Rutte take place? That's not a slip of the tongue, is it? Isn't that a very conscious framing by the VVD Group in the House of Representatives, which thus influences the image that people have of refugees?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u26	This way of discussing an issue does not in any way contribute to any solution. In this way, only attempts are made to extract small elements, to blow those elements up into big balloons and then say: look how wrong that all is. Let's look at the solutions that lie ahead. Let us look at what has happened at that point in the last few days, and let us talk about it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u27	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u28	I very much agree with that last appeal, but I would like you to take responsibility, within the VVD, for politicians to be responsible for what they radiate to society and for informing people correctly and not putting them on the wrong track.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u29	It is good that the cabinet takes unusual measures in an unusual time. This reflects the seriousness of this situation. The agreement between the parties, as it came out yesterday, is hopeful: status holders who are no longer given priority in the allocation of accommodation, container homes or vacant offices that are made available as living space, assigning assistance in kind to a home and medical care instead of surcharges. In addition, last Friday, the cabinet made arrangements with municipalities to find a sober reception location for around 10,000 asylum seekers with temporary residence status in the next six months. These are solutions that are necessary and welcome. My group and I look forward to further opportunities to bring more solutions closer. Thought doesn't stand still; neither does it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u30	I wonder if Mr Hermans will find it timely. I am referring in particular to solutions in the housing market. Didn't Secretary of State Teeven of the VVD mean last year that in 2015 about 65,000 asylum seekers would come to the Netherlands? Then perhaps we could have anticipated instead of taking these emergency measures at the last minute, regardless of what you think of all these emergency measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u31	It is interesting that all kinds of parties are currently falling apart with comments on what should have been done in good time and before, but that they have so far come up with little or no proposals. It is good to note that. I will also mention this in my story later. I even know that your partymate in the Lower House said Mr Sjoerdsma in a broadcast by Wakker Netherlands that the problem was insoluble and that we could not do much about it. So it is good that there are solutions; they are now on the table. Then you can say it could have been a month earlier. Yeah, after that, you can go around the world for a dime.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u32	Do you therefore agree with me that, if the Secretary of State at the time last year said that 65,000 asylum seekers were arriving, it would be very late to take all kinds of measures at the last moment, now? Of course, you can never look ahead and make a prediction, but if the assessment at that time was much higher than the number of asylum seekers actually coming in, it would be a credit to you if you would tell me that it could have been done a little earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u33	If you can do it sooner, please, of course. However, I find it very easy for political parties to call it now when they themselves did not make any proposals at all at the time and did not go into them at all. The solutions must not, of course, be limited to the national level. It seems inevitable to my group that the Netherlands should draw a common and strict line with our European partners. That necessity was there a year ago, even before all those heartbreaking images of desperate refugees came to us. The VVD Group has already made a move this spring, the Azmani plan, with as a core reception in its own region for real refugees in order to limit the influx to Europe. A safe place must be provided in the region. In this way, refugees will be given safe accommodation and the influx to Europe will be reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u34	The VVD group in the Lower House came up with that plan-Azmani. A few months later, that was torpedoed in this house. To what extent is there a consensus in your party and to what extent are the noses in the same direction? You say that we must come up with solutions; you are also talking about container housing. There is no rent for that, because they are no longer receiving assistance. I don't know about the PvdA in there, but I don't think he likes it at all. So I wonder how you're going to do all that. You can come up with all kinds of things about these container houses, integration and so on, but there is only one solution: just close borders, external borders and internal borders. However, I do not hear about this. The colleague of the CDA then talks about all kinds of refugee treaties and so on. That is going to take years, and in the meantime we are being overrun by all these asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u35	Can you come to a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u36	How is the VVD close to borders, borders close to borders and internal borders, as Mr Azmani said in the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u37	There's a plan from the VVD'er Azmani. That plan has been taken over by the Cabinet. In fact, the plan has also been adopted in Europe. This means that where this plan was initially spoken very cynically about and everyone was defeated, it has now become Dutch and European policy. That's point one. Point two: close the borders of the Netherlands. If you want to do that and you don't see how the influx can be reduced, you have to build a moat a few meters deep from Delfzijl to Terneuzen. Or would Mrs Faber prefer some sort of new Berlin wall?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u38	I have not received an answer to the question of whether the VVD is in favour of closing borders, both at external borders and at internal borders. I'm just asking for a yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u39	The Azmani Plan adopts a European approach to the external borders of Europe. That is what we are going to do: to create safe ports in the areas where the unrest is or at least against it. That is the approach the VVD would like to see. This approach has not only become national policy after everything was initially destroyed. All the political parties are calling for us to come earlier, but look what's in there. That was already there in the spring. In addition, you can see that this is now also European policy. Merkel and Hollande have taken the same line in the European Parliament. It's clear what the VVD wants. As far as the Dutch borders are concerned, that really is an idea fix. I refer to the story about the small Gaul village that managed to stand up to the Romans. We have no magic potion and that is really an idea fix from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u40	Finally, briefly, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u41	We have no potion, but it is much worse: we have no leaders either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u42	To not call someone who doesn't do what you want a leader, I leave it to Mrs Faber. I already said that half of the Netherlands fell over the VVD when this plan was released. The plan was cynical and unworkable and now European policy. D66 says it's insoluble and the PVV says it's all too soft. The Netherlands deserves better than a conversation for its own parish of extremes. A fence around the Netherlands, close borders and the end of the free movement of persons in Europe are, in the VVD's view, not options.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u43	If I remember correctly, the VVD's plan was to take measures at the European external borders in such a way that no more refugees would come to the Netherlands. We said at the time that this is not real. There will always be strangers, and when they come from war zone, we must treat them humanely. Mr Hermans says a little too easily that the Netherlands has taken over this plan and that Europe has taken over it. No one in the Netherlands, except Mr Hermans' group and the PVV Group, fortunately has the idea that no more refugees will come to the Netherlands. That will continue to happen as long as there are fireplaces in the world. We must try to do the best we can together in Europe, but we must also accept that refugees will come to the Netherlands, with or without Mr Azmani's plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u44	Following, Mr Kuiper?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u45	Yes, Mr. Chairman. It has to be said that Mr Hermans said this last year during the General Political Reviews. We then had a debate on the external borders of Europe. In the new plans, refugees are admitted through certain places, hotspots, on the south-eastern border of Europe. They are first notified there and can then move on within Europe. What does this mean, for example, for the VVD's vision of the Dublin Agreement? This will lead us to divide people across Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u46	First a response to Mr De Graaf's words. It's too bad he needs so many words when he doesn't know the plan well. The VVD and Mr Azmani have never said that there will be no refugees in the Netherlands, but limiting the influx is essential. After all, we know that the crisis in the Middle East and the major hotspots at the borders of Europe will not be over in the coming years. Refugees will continue to come. The only question is whether we can keep the influx as limited as possible in order to control the development of Europe. That's what the Azmani plan says. It was a long interruption and there were many reproaches, but if Mr De Graaf reads the plan correctly, he will see that this is in it. The VVD has never said that no more refugees will come to the Netherlands. They will always come, but the question is how we can take them and how we can achieve them. Mr Kuiper spoke about the Dublin Agreement. It states that the first country in which an asylum seeker reports is to accept that asylum seeker. It is strange that the first country where people from the Middle East enter is the Netherlands. This means that we have to ask ourselves whether the Dublin Agreement is still working as it should. In Europe, discussions are currently under way on the distribution of refugees between Europe. However, the core of the VVD approach and of the European approach remains to prevent the influx of refugees from becoming so large that it becomes unmanageable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u47	This is an interesting point, also for the debate. After and during the crisis that we are now experiencing, we must look at the Dublin agreement differently and perhaps draw different consequences. What does it mean for Mr Hermans that refugees enter a particular country? Does he let that go? Does he want to create a permanent distribution mechanism through Dublin? That's an interesting discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u48	We must first of all agree on the Azmani plan and the line set out in it to accommodate the refugees in the region and to conduct the asylum procedure there. If that is the first step, we have already taken a clear step towards improving the Dublin Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u49	The chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (VVD) is making a high effort and he can therefore also be asked to do so. He says with a lot of conviction that the Azmani plan, which was first laughed away, has now been taken over by the government and even by Europe. You can reason everything to yourself, there is nothing wrong with politics, but does Mr Hermans really think that his plan, which the Labour Party has always said is not only contrary to international treaties but also to the moral duty of a country, has been promoted by the government to policy and that the European Commission has said: that is a good plan of this Azmani, that is what we are going to do? Mr Hermans does not believe that, does he? It's not that bad, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u50	The Azmani plan has been taken over by the cabinet. The government has made the Azmani plan the starting point for its policy. That plan, that policy, was advocated by Mr Rutte in Brussels. That's what support has come for. I refer to the speeches by Merkel and Hollande in the European Parliament. Mr Kox can then read that the same lines are being drawn. There will undoubtedly be nuances to this, but the essence of the argument is: reception in the region and there applying for asylum.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u51	Each may think his own, but it's about the facts. The plan of Mr Hermans' party colleague, Mr Azmani, has always been mentioned in the Second Chamber by the coalition colleague not only in violation of international treaties, but also in violation of our moral duty. If Mr Hermans now claims that that party has apparently gone completely on his side and that the government has taken over the plan, can he give a source for it? I have not read this yet and I have certainly not read that Mrs Merkel has asked: Mr Hermans, what exactly is the situation with Azmani, because we think that is a good plan. Germany may receive a million refugees this year. I don't think Azmani will say, "That's pretty much what I thought."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u52	It is important to make it clear that the heart of the political approach proposed in the plan has been taken over by the Cabinet and Europe. That's the line I keep talking about. I call it the Azmani plan, because it is so remarkable that it has been sunk down here and on the other side of the House in the parliamentary discussions and that it has now been largely taken over by Europe and the Dutch Government. In my opinion, that is an important fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u53	Mr Hermans is very enthusiastic about the Azmani plan, which assumes that refugees will be more received in the region. What happens to the commitment of this plan to bring more money to the region to enable that shelter there? I hear from NGOs that the money is being withdrawn from the region, because it is being spent on the reception of asylum seekers in the Netherlands. This means de facto that there is less money in the region for shelter. What is it worth to Mr Hermans to enable reception in the region?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u54	When we talk about shelter in the region, this means that money must go there too. That is also in the Azmani plan and it is also in the European approach. Europe has now made billions available for this. That line's just in there. You're gonna have to finance that from somewhere. If people aren't sitting there anymore, but they're coming to those areas, then you have to take the money there as well. You have to take the money to the places where it is most necessary at that time. That is the approach that also applies in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u55	That is clear to me, but that is not my question. My question is: why is money being withdrawn from the region; why is development budget spent on the reception of refugees in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u56	If I am not mistaken, we have even agreed on this in the coalition agreement. When people leave their country and they come here, they're not there anymore. Then you better use that money here for the shelter than you put it in the place where people aren't anymore. That seems to me to be a very logical argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u57	Finally, Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u58	To sum up and finally, this means that the money is no longer spent on care in the region when the people leave, but is spent in the Netherlands on the people who have come here. Then the VVD does not have a solution for shelter in the region, but then it is shelter in the Orange.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u59	These are the arguments that I can't get my hands on. I didn't say that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u60	The starting point is reception in the region, says Mr Hermans. That is, of course, a long time ago. 90% of refugees are taken care of in the region. Mr Hermans wants to return the 10% who dare to travel to other countries to the region. What exactly is the justification for the principle that these neighbouring countries, the fragile countries, should pay for 100% of the reception of refugees?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u61	Discussions are currently taking place between Turkey and the European Union on reception in the region, where Turkey could play an important role. All countries see that in the end it is best for refugees to return to their own territory, to their own region. Refugees who are coming all the way here, I shall be going into it later with crummy boats, who are risking their lives in the hope of getting asylum somewhere in Europe; that is one of the key points in the Azmani plan. That's what we need to avoid. If you can prevent that, you can realize a lot of things at the same time. That is at the heart of the approach in the regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u62	Mrs. Strik, shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u63	Mr Hermans says that people are better off in neighbouring countries. I don't really understand why. There, of course, is also the point of acceptance: 1.5 million refugees in Lebanon, a country with 4 million inhabitants. We are already squeaking here when it comes to 30,000 refugees. I find it pretty easy to say: let them do it there. Does Mr Hermans not agree that we should at least invite more refugees from the region so that they can come here safely and we can relieve the pressure there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u64	At the heart of the matter is whether they are real refugees or whether they are economic refugees. That's the point. This must be possible in the region. That's where the shelter must take place. That's the line. When there are people who are really refugees, there is always room for those people in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u65	Mr Hermans, I give you the opportunity to continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u66	That's very nice, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands deserves better than talking only for its own parish and for extremes. A fence around the Netherlands, close borders and the end of the free movement of persons in Europe are not options. It's untruthful, and it's killing our welfare state. But opening the gates and hoping for a successful outcome is not a serious option either. This only leads to more tension in the Netherlands and still encourages people to risk their lives in crummy boats. It now seems as if you have to choose between civilisation and racism, said Halbe Zijlstra rightly in the House of Representatives. We should put that false contradiction behind us. Many Dutch people are deeply concerned, but neither provocative texts nor political correctness help them move forward; however, politicians who tackle the problem and try to solve it. No civilized person can accept the images of drowned children. No civilized person can accept that unscrupulous human smugglers are driving refugees to death. Politics is the move now. Let's get our hands together, because we can really get a grip on this movement of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u67	Mrs Faber, a very brief interruption. I would like Mr Hermans to continue his speech. One question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u68	I understand, Madam President. I have the following question to ask Mr Hermans. There are refugees, and that is the bulk of them who are hopping. They'll be in Turkey for a while first. Then they go to Greece and then they come to Germany or the Netherlands. Does Mr Hermans see them as economic refugees or political refugees? Do you say: I don't care; they're all welcome?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u69	I don't know. Then I need to know exactly why they fled. This also means that if they still come to Europe and we have good reception in the regions, with the test of whether they are actually refugees, and whether that means that they can find shelter in Europe, then it is time to see exactly what the reason for their flight is and to see where they could go: back to the region-care or shelter here in the Netherlands or in other countries of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u70	Very briefly, Mrs Faber!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u71	You say you don't know the background. I am concerned that they have moved from various countries, where they are safe, to the Netherlands, for example. Do you see these people as economic refugees or political refugees? That's a simple question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u72	That's a simple question, especially if it were easy to answer. I don't know these people's situation. People did. That is one of the reasons why we believe that reception is coming into the region. Those who come here anyway, who have avoided the shelter in the region, should send you back and let the test take place there. That is the approach to our policy. We also owe it to the Dutch to tackle the refugee problem. Article 2 of the Constitution makes it crystal clear: the law governs who is Dutch, who is allowed to enter, who is allowed to stay here or who is not allowed to stay here. This is the second article of our Constitution for a reason. It is a fundamental right and it has a fundamental meaning. If anyone who knocks here can just stay here, then the Dutchmanship loses its meaning and its value. It must also be clear that anyone who takes advantage of our hospitality is forfeiting the right to asylum in the Netherlands. In our country, our values and our laws apply. Those who flee here must abide by that. Moreover, if we do not lay down clear conditions for the number of people entering, we will also carry our social welfare state to the grave. Not only in financial terms, but much more in view of the solidarity on which it is based, because unbridled immigration and extensive social services simply do not go together. Our generous and civilized social services, our decent and compact government, are also very important for liberals. The revision of the welfare state by this cabinet was very necessary in order to preserve it and prepare it for the future. From the reception centres via the islands of Greece to the borders of Hungary and Germany, it is becoming increasingly clear that Europe had to change direction, and that is what happened in the end. Secure care in the region will now be taken decisively. In the meantime, we have a considerable task to do, namely to take care of the refugees who are here, both in the short and in the long term. It is very important that we can give those who will stay here, whether temporarily or not, a place in our society. We must not repeat the mistake of the last 30 years, the mistake Bolkestein warned of in the 1990s. The mistake of pampering people and demanding nothing in return. No work, no participation in society, no acceptance of our fundamental values and standards. What we have to do is make sure that status holders can stop their own pants as soon as possible and learn Dutch as soon as possible, so that they can contribute something to this beautiful country. That is precisely why I like the idea of VNO-NCW top man Hans de Boer: immediately look when people come in and see if they can get a status, what qualifications they have. It can be examined whether there is a demand for any retraining and then that newcomer can be brought into contact with a company that can use the expertise well. I say this immediately, and I have heard the Minister for Social Affairs say that we must be careful that the newcomers do not push the jobseekers into the labour market. Can the cabinet indicate how it really responds specifically to those plans of VNO-NCW? Helping and keeping newcomers with status in our country is an expensive duty which the liberals, including the VVD, are also in favour of. It is necessary to avoid a repetition of decades of integration errors. It is necessary to keep our economy strong and our prosperity high, because our society and our economy are in full swing. This brings me to the labour market and the economy. Older workers are still so well protected that an unemployed older person can hardly get to work. All kinds of obligations make it difficult for an employer and they also make it difficult for the elderly to get a job. There is more work, but the fixed contract is often so expensive and so risky for an employer that there are only modestly fixed jobs. The balance between the employee's rights and the employer's costs seems to be missing. We really need to take care of that differently. We must dare to look critically at all kinds of employers' contributions. Something has been done about the payment of wages in case of illness, but for a small company with two or three employees it remains a problem. If an employee gets sick of that, do you have to keep paying it for a year? Then there is often no financial space to fill the vacancy. We must also look at collective agreements that destroy jobs. We must give young people, re-enterers, the unemployed, the elderly and all those who are still fishing behind the grid new prospects and certainties. This requires a strong economy. This requires that the economy grows, but it is also very important for the cabinet to respond to new developments. The VVD Group is pleased that the government continues to give space tozzp'ers. We agree with the government's observation that self-employed people without staff provide competition, flexibility and dynamism in the economy. The emergence ofzzp-schap makes sense because the cost of a contract of employment is very high. The number of Dutch people working at their own risk and account is now approaching the million. Technological progress is going very fast and robots seem to scare even vice prime ministers. The great economic opportunities arise precisely in those places where we didn't expect them for a number of years: in the creative industry, in the gaming sector, in the development of Apple, but also in logistics, in the sustainable corner and in technology. The technical manufacturing industry, which was declared dead in the Netherlands not so crazy long ago, is working on a second youth. That requires two things from politics. To education that responds to this and to a smart innovation policy. We should not talk to our children and grandchildren about robot phobia or 3D print order, but teach them how to make robots, 3D printers and quantum computers. This is a major challenge for education in all its parts from VMBO to university education. There are chances left. The Dutch actually always take those opportunities with results. Two weeks ago, the World Economic Forum published a ranking of the world's most competitive economies. The Netherlands rose from place eight to place five, the absolute top world. We owe this leadership to our education, good roads and a reliable government. We are praised for our concern and for our macroeconomic policies, and for our indestructible urge to keep on renewing. When we fell from place five to place eight a few years ago, all the parties were ready to say that this was due to the cabinet policy that destroyed the economy. It will undoubtedly now be attributed by those parties to world economic trade. Everyone has a talent. Using it is vital for yourself, the self-realization, but also for society. It is the 17 million benevolent, enterprising, hardworking and of their talent that make our country strong and prosperous. The key to education is the education that must be the best of our young people, whether it is about specific skills and knowledge or about citizenship. That doesn't just apply to young people. In our rapidly changing world, the government must make it as easy as possible to continue learning for a lifetime. Our education should help with that. By aligning much more with what is demanded in the labour market and in business, education can play a good role in this. In the relationship between educational and business life for many years, there has been a major debate........................................................................................................................................................................................ This is very important, especially in vocational education. In education, more work needs to be done on the learning of entrepreneurial skills. Our country, according to figures from the World Economic Forum, is one of the best places on earth to do business. We also want it to be the best country in the world to innovate. We have many tools to stimulate innovation: the WBSO, the RDA, the Innovation Box, the innovation bonus for SMEs, the Top consortia Knowledge Innovation (TKIs) and the Top sectors. I can tell you from my own experience that the Top Sectors are increasingly praised internationally, precisely because of the cooperation between government, industry and science. It is well known that I am active in the field of gardening and agricultural materials. Wherever you go in the world, everyone is very interested in our technology. How can we, as such a small country, be able to achieve such an enormously powerful agriculture? Countries are asking us to help solve their problems in this area. We can't do that technically, but we can do it sustainably. All the factors necessary for this are present in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u73	I always like to hear an optimistic politician. The group chairman of the VVD outlines what can happen nicely. We cannot afford so many to stand aside and not get to work. This is not only a tragedy for them, but also for our country. That is what Mr Hermans said last year, as I am sure he will remember. He was talking about unemployment at the time. Since then, a lot has happened in the areas of robots, 3D Printers and rankings, but unemployment is not, or hardly, falling. If he takes last year's words seriously, we still have the current drama of hundreds of thousands of people who haven't gotten to work in a very long time. Can Mr Hermans reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u74	I have indicated that the Dutch economy needs to be restructured. This has been done to a large extent over the past period. Then we see increased international trade. Then you see the increase in business investment. As the last car on the train, employment must increase. However, this is not happening sufficiently. I have indicated that part of the problem is that we have collective agreements and a lot of employers' burdens. As a result, getting a permanent job is a very big problem. We need to look at that again. We're not done with that. There is also a need for adjustments in this respect. The transition to a different type of economy will have to take place in education and innovation: lifelong learning. Education needs to be further adapted. We must ensure that training is provided for those jobs which we do not even know will be created, but which are certain to be in other sectors than hitherto.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u75	There is certainly a role for the groups in this Chamber to be the shining beacon that Mr Brinkman was talking about, so that the government knows which way to go, at least under circumstances. You were a shining beacon last year. You said it was a tragedy, not only for the people personally, but also for our country. We are now a year away and it is still a tragedy. Now you say we have to do this and that. That all sounds very sensible, or not, but it is a direction for the cabinet. Do you also say to this cabinet: you did not do what I asked you to do, you allowed the drama to continue, you failed and I now demand that you do things? You can do that too, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u76	I reported this last year and again this year. You can't blame me for any inconsistencies. I am indeed optimistic about the economy. If we had not reformed the economy, we would have gone further backwards. I have also indicated that education needs to respond increasingly to new developments. The fact remains that economic policy has not yet led to the restoration of employment that we would like to see. What do you have to do about it? Don't create jobs. We've seen all these years that it's a disaster. You shouldn't do that. You need to make sure that the economy is strong enough to give people space and make real use of it. Then people can get a steady job. Entrepreneurs dealing with all these burdens are now refusing to employ people. This creates problems in the labour market and this needs to change.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u77	Mr Hermans says he is consistent, but he just keeps saying what he said last year. You must also draw consequences from your words. Last year he called it a drama and implicitly instructed the cabinet to do something about it. Nothing happened. All the progress he sees has not addressed the problem of unemployment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u78	I'm optimistic. It's important to look at what's going very well. I fully agree with you: unemployment is still far too high. I don't have to say that, because that's what the cabinet sees. The cabinet is trying to figure out how to do something about it. The labour market needs to be improved. There is one of the bottlenecks to further increase employment. The next point is innovation. The development of new businesses is a second important element. That's what the Cabinet is doing. If only you'd be able to create a few hundred thousand jobs with a snap of the finger in no time. Unfortunately, it doesn't work that way. The Netherlands, the government is working well to ensure, in the field of education, innovation and tackling labour relations, that we can take full advantage of economic development. That's what's happening, but we're far from here. We are far from satisfied. We will have to go on for the next period. If I stand here again next year, I will pass those same points again and then it will become clear that I am again consistent and optimistic. I said I'd stay optimistic. We are on the right track, but we must keep setting the bar higher and higher. We must always try to encourage private parties to make major investments in new technologies, in cutting-edge production methods and innovative products and services. By getting the government to act more often as a launching customer and give the pioneers a chance. By looking at good ideas from our European partners. For example, look at a country like France. In the Netherlands all the rules regarding Brussels are looked at very closely. I thought that was what Mr Brinkman was referring to. France is very effective in the European lobby. This often allows for forms of support for innovation that run against the edges of European legislation. I think that we should also have the courage to look up these edges. At the same time, we need to ensure that I look at the Minister for Economic Affairs and say that SMEs are more likely to find their way to the top sectors. That's happening more and more. We just signed a new innovation contract. More and more SMEs are starting to catch up. Shouldn't we be thinking about higher innovation budgets now that we're a little bit more generous financially? Especially when it comes to cofinancing from Europe, that seems to me to be a sensible thing. Each Dutch euro will produce a European or a Brussels euro. Those investments are profitable. The key to our country's future prosperity is and remains in the hands of education, research and innovative business. The prosperity of our country exists at the mercy of a government that keeps the country and its citizens safe, both within its borders and beyond. No prosperity without security and sufficient public and private resources for research. If there is more room for manoeuvre in the coming years, it is good to include security and research as a priority in addition to the defence priority indicated by the cabinet. The security services will receive more than 100 million, and that is a good thing! The Defence budget is being structurally increased by a small EUR 400 million. As far as the VVD is concerned, that is only a start. Keeping our country safe is a core task of the government. We have thought for too long that safety could be reduced by one ounce. Of that illusion we are now hopefully looking at the fireplaces around us for good. The VVD Group is grateful for the work that our women and men in uniform, our soldiers and agents, move out day in and day out. The Netherlands has become a bit safer thanks to them. Crime rates are down: a quarter fewer robberies and a fifth fewer street robberies and home invasions. Victims are given the right to speak. Numerous measures have been taken to tackle jihadis and recruiters. Soon we will be talking in this house about taking away our highest good from those who commit terrorist crimes, namely the loss of Dutch citizenship. The threat of attacks remains.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u79	I would like to give Mr Hermans his bright vision of safety in our country. Indeed, the figures show that things are improving. Then it's about home invasion. At the same time, there are considerable problems with safety. Think about what the North Brabant region is going through with a crime that comes above ground. Mayors there don't know what to do with it anymore. Citizens are taking action because of street harassment. In Amsterdam there are discussions about the reception of asylum seekers in an environment where Jewish people live. It is really not as rosy as Mr Hermans thinks. So we still have a considerable effort to make, and I am not even talking about matters that have been mentioned here in relation to the courts and access to the legal system. I would like Mr Hermans to take this into account. Can he respond to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u80	That is the continuation of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u81	Can you answer the question by continuing your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u82	I shall continue with my speech and then come the answer to the question put by Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u83	Can you settle for that, Mr Kuiper? I see you nodding in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u84	The threat of attacks remains, but it bears witness to the quality of our people in the security services that dramatic attacks have yet to pass on to our country. But we must also be honest. Unless we transform our country into a police state, we can never rule out attacks to the full, and even then it will not succeed. This is depressing, but we must never let this gloom prevail over our optimism and our love of freedom. Crime will re-emerge in all its facets every day, in all kinds of forms. This remains a matter of continuing concern on the part of the government. It will also be discussed in the discussion of the budget for security and justice. This is a point in which the VVD Group in this Chamber also makes the necessary comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u85	Well, I guess this is just too docile. I was talking about a picture too rosy. We are discussing the police and whether it is sufficient. We also have a discussion about police collective agreements and the courts and whether they can be dealt with. Do we find the VVD on the side of the opposition in this Chamber which says that additional efforts are needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u86	Again: see the sequel of my text. I will be very brief, and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the First Chamber believes that the budget for Security and Justice can be improved considerably. However, the question is whether the budget of Security and Justice can actually meet the societal challenges. This will certainly have to be adjusted to the budget before the cabinet gets its hands on each other in the First Chamber, including the VVD Group. After all, there are still a number of laws in this house for which there is no majority. When does the Cabinet intend to clarify matters? We will continue to follow the discussion of the budget of Security and Justice not only in this Chamber but also in the Chamber on the other side with more than great interest to see how the cabinet will deal with the problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u87	This morning, while shaving, I heard that the national reserve police are being called in or offering to help themselves. Do we have to wait that long? Why can we not arrange for additional support for the Justice budget with each other on this occasion, especially now that you are crossing the border too? We are being harassed by requests throughout the justice chain. It is a question of substantiated requests. Society is waiting for it. Why does it take so long?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u88	I understand that the cabinet is in the process of considering, in the light of the general political considerations on the other side, how it can adjust the budget of justice in such a way that it can count on a majority both there and here. That is the way to deal with the problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u89	On the other hand, I know that a motion or amendment by the CDA, supported by other groups, has been rejected. Now that there is clear broad support for strengthening the justice budget, it is time to provide operational parts of the judicial chain. Hom, I'd say, 'cause I like it better. Surely that is much more helpful than waiting until just before Christmas when the budget comes along?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u90	The cabinet has indicated that it will come forward with proposals. It seems right to me, especially for the First Chamber, to await these proposals. I would like to make it clear that the VVD Group also believes that improvements in the budget of justice will be necessary in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u91	It is always a bit of fighting what the main task of this Chamber is: to establish the good or to prevent the bad. According to the philosophers from the nineteenth century, we must above all prevent the bad. In this case, however, I agree with Mr Brinkman that perhaps we should help a little to get things right. After all, it is not so much that we are waiting for the budget of Security and Justice to be dealt with one day in December, when we will not have much time to say: sorry, but this budget is not going to happen. That's really shooting a cannon. Is the colleague of the VVD prepared to support this House's appeal to the cabinet to help the budget on a number of points on which this Chamber has already been concerned? Because that makes a lot of difference. I think it is very good if my name is underneath it, but if your name is underneath it, Mr Hermans, it will be very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u92	You should say that more often! I have indicated that we too believe that the budget of justice needs to be improved and that there are issues that we are wondering whether the current approach is sufficient to deal with social problems. The cabinet has indicated in the Lower House that it will come forward with a number of adjustments for the examination of the budget of Justice in the Lower House. That is very important. It seems quite clear to me that the cabinet is working on the basis of the signals there and the signals here and that the budget can pass both chambers because it is feasible. Mr. Chairman. The last two General Political Reviews I have put a great deal of effort into supporting an investigation into the operation of our parliamentary system. I have indicated this: fast-changing electoral preferences, a rapid succession of cabinets and elections, a short life span of cabinets, an increasing role of Europe, decentralisation. It seems to me that after 200 years there is enough substance to think about. In a few weeks' time we will be discussing this in detail, but I would like to make one more point. This has convinced me once again in recent years of the fact that we continue to deny that something is happening in our society that we cannot automatically allow to survive according to the old strategies. When I was elected to the House of Representatives in 1977, it was still very common for you as a citizen to vote once every four years and that you were not actually asked in the meantime. However, society has changed beyond recognition in those 40 years. The Dutch have become more powerful, more self-conscious, more assertive. That mouthiness is no longer limited to the kitchen table or the bar. Thanks to social media, every citizen has a platform to express his opinion and mobilise like-minded people, not even every four years, but continuously, 24 hours a day. We can't pretend the world's like it was in 1977. We see how a small club, say, young dogs in a short time managed to mobilise almost half a million Dutch people under a referendum. No matter how you turn it or turn it, that's a top performance, regardless of the argument I have a lot to draw attention to. However, it is also a sign of what is happening. If you are talking about a participatory society, you have to take into account that the citizen is going to make real use of it and therefore want to have an impact on decision-making. Just saying that we have this system and that we are maintaining it is, I think, a little too easy. Times are changing, and it's up to us to understand the signs of time. We will discuss this further on 3 November. The Netherlands is ready for the future. It is increasingly agile and able to cope with continuous changes. The VVD wants it to stay that way in the future. I want my children to live in a country with a government that provides protection and helps them to embrace the opportunities that the future offers. That government will then have to act quickly and flexibly and take firm decisions. These are essential matters. This also requires an adjustment of us as politicians. Just to keep what we have, we have to be willing to change. Last year I concluded my speech with that. Then I also said: it is like Tancredi said to Don Fabrizio: everything has to change if we want it to stay the same. Today is an extra tough day for the next of kin of the victims of MH17. It is good to reflect on this in the strong political discussions, including in this House, on the issue of refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u93	Mr. Chairman. A newly constituted First Chamber also has new group chairmen. It is a pleasure to be able to debate with colleagues and with the cabinet, particularly the Prime Minister, in that capacity which I recognize from a gray past across the street. The Prime Minister speaks on behalf of the cabinet during the General Political Reviews. You could call that Chefsache. What is also referred to by that term is unclear to me. After all, the Prime Minister in the Netherlands has no special powers over ministers and secretaries of state, such as the Bundeskanzler does. So he's not really a chef either. That is why it is a German expression and not a Dutch one. What does the Prime Minister actually think? He uses that term himself and talks about political direction, moral leadership, team captaining, media figure. Is all the cabinet policy Chefsache or only part of it? I would like to hear it from the Prime Minister, because we can learn from that, in case he happens to be on a trade mission next time. The new First Chamber is faced with a cabinet that is slowly moving towards the exit. At least it seems that way, although the regular elections to the House of Representatives are still a year and a half away from us. Its own agenda is on, at least where the coalition parties could agree on. What the cabinet did in the first few years, I would almost say empowered by constructive opposition groups, was sometimes painful but certainly useful and necessary. Compliments fit for that because ruling in times of economic crisis is not easy and nevertheless good results have been achieved. It did not all work out, I am thinking, for example, of Minister Schippers' health legislation, but that was due to disagreement in our own coalition circle. Whether the cautious economic recovery is directly causally related to government policy is, of course, unproven, but without intervention on the housing market, without the first flexibility of the labour market and without the austerity of public spending, we would have been further away from home. There have been Cabinets who have received applause for less performance. But what was, was. I see little ambition anymore to put my hands on the team for the next one and a half years. The cabinet focuses on the execution. Well, that is indeed difficult enough! For example, I am going to talk about the police and I am also thinking about the decentralisation operation and the interventions in the care sector. Implementation is an underestimated part of government policy. Politicians are, I recognize, inclined to lose interest once the fight for vision, concept and law has been fought. The implementation always proves to be more difficult, complex, time-consuming and expensive. We must also realize this as the First Chamber, and once in a while we must put our hands in our own bosoms. After all, one of the keys to which senators rely is the feasibility of the law. However, what instruments do we have for this? We have our own experience and knowledge, we talk to experts and people from practice and we hold a hearing occasionally, but more than subjective impressions often do not yield that. Sometimes we look together afterwards at what legislation has resulted in to learn lessons from it. However, can we also look ahead? In the case of major legislative operations, it would be useful for the government to have an independent implementation test set up in advance, standard, for example by the planning agencies. And this Chamber could consider asking for a second opinion in such major legislative operations on its own. I am happy to discuss this with colleagues, and I invite the government to reflect on this suggestion here. I return to the political state of affairs. The implementation requires attention, but policy-wise the cabinet seems ready, ruled out. That is, I fear, not the blissful state of the country, but the fragility of the coalition. A cabinet that is based on parties that are already in the campaign stand and that has no comfort of political support will bleed to death. We see little or no more impulses in the area of the administrative organisation, a dead end of the trail of Minister Plasterk. We are seeing lagging results in climate policy. The energy saving targets are far from being met. We are seeing gaps in the budget for Security and Justice, and we were talking about this just now, without doing anything about it, while the rule of law is going through a lot. In the budgets of OCW and EZ, no additional space is available for research, science and innovation, while last year's cabinet presented the Science Vision and the Science Agenda will be delivered next month. We are waiting for an outdated pension system to be dealt with. And we see a creative Secretary of State for Finance who has to sit on his hands because the revision of the tax system has to wait for a new cabinet. However, the money needed for this is already being spent. Of course, there are advantages in handing out tax relief of 5 billion. Many groups in society are getting a little better. However, there are two important questions to answer: is it wise to do so now and what is the point? I suspect that the cabinet regrets the text put forward by Secretary of State Wiebes last year: "A system review without burden relief is not feasible, but a reduction in charges without a corresponding system review is a missed opportunity." My group agrees with that, but the exact opposite is happening. There can really be doubts about a generic reduction of burdens without strengthening the economic structure against the backdrop of major uncertainties in the world economy. Perhaps this will attract domestic consumption and create some 30 000 to 35 000 jobs, but that is actually very low on 600,000 unemployed, of which 240,000 are long-term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u94	I would like to go back a little bit in Mr De Graaf's speech. Because I have to make a little detour, which is why it took me a while. I have a question about the one-earner and the two-earner. Mr De Graaf has indicated that everyone is making progress, but there are calculation examples that show that earners pay up to five times more tax as two-earners. Will Mr De Graaf respond to that? Isn't that something we should do about?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u95	Firstly, I note that the proposals come not from my group, but from the government. Secondly, we still have to talk about the budget and the Tax Plan. Thirdly, Mr Schalk knows that my party would have come up with a different tax plan, which also does much more justice to a revision of the system. So I find the question interesting and I also think we should look at it, but it is mainly a question for the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u96	Of course, I agree that this is a question for the cabinet. I will also put this question to the cabinet today, but I have not yet reached that point. I was curious to hear your views on this. I understand you're saying that at least that needs to be looked at.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u97	Next time through the chairman, Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u98	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u99	Mr President, through you I say to Mr Schalk that I am always prepared to hold the debate on this subject. I said that some 30,000 to 35,000 jobs are actually low, among 600,000 unemployed, of whom 240,000 are long-term unemployed. One can hardly call this a sustainable economic commitment, now that the reduction of the burden does not also facilitate a better tax structure with lower labour costs and more greening. Last week, the President of the Netherlands Bank warned against this choice: no system revision and insufficient buffers in the national budget against the background of a sovereign debt that moves around 66% of gross national product. I would like to invite the Prime Minister to respond to that critical remark made by Klaas Knot. I told you, the cabinet is slowly bleeding out. I regret that. Rather an ambitious cabinet that sometimes goes down fighting than the proverbial shopkeepers. Let me give you the example of what I call micro-SMEs: the self-employed entrepreneurs who use themselves as working capital and who have become known as 'zzp'ers'. In politics, pity for thezzp'er and admiration for the priority. They must be protected, but they must also be encouraged. They are, after all, the flexible skin that has become flesh, which cannot afford a modern labour market, butzzp'ers are trapped in a web of uncertainties about their position. Institutions are threatened by the omnipotent Tax Administration because they would employ self-employed workers as pseudo-workers. I am thinking here of institutions in health care or education, such as the art academies, which cannot do without the input of autonomous artists who do not pursue a permanent working relationship but are indispensable for the quality of their training. There is a great deal of uncertainty about how to proceed. The current regime lacks internal consistency and is poorly enforceable. A fundamental review is needed; it is a very large group of workers in this country. The material is on the table in the form of an excellent so-called IBO report, but the cabinet does not go beyond a call for a broad public debate, which should then be settled in a subsequent cabinet period. This seems to be a generous democratic gesture, but in fact it is political poverty. My group regrets this. The nearly 1 million self-employed professionals deserve better. When policies are no longer leading, the only response to external impulses and crises, such as the current refugee crisis, remains alongside implementation. This is not only extremely difficult in itself, but is made even more complicated for this cabinet by fundamental differences of understanding within the supporting coalition. This hassle does not help to radiate a clear and moral authority as a government in times when society is uncertain. I support the Prime Minister's call to preserve social peace, but perhaps his own party should take the laundry out of his ears and listen carefully. What impression do these indeed make about compensation to refugees for breast enlargements and eyelid corrections on our own population? Is everyone coming to the Netherlands because we're too nice for refugees? The facts help; at least they should. Millions of people are fleeing, especially in and around Syria, Iraq and African countries such as Eritrea, but also Afghanistan. As has already been said, the vast majority of those millions remain in the region. Think of a country like Lebanon, where every three citizens are refugees. Only a few hundred thousand refugees of these millions and millions reach the European mainland, of which there are now about 30,000 or perhaps 35,000 in the Netherlands. By the way, almost half of these people are from Syria and are often highly educated. It is likely that there will be some more in the coming weeks, but the figures from the 1990s will not even be achieved. Is that the asylum system against which the PVV is trying to organize a popular move? Isn't that sustainable anymore, like the VVD keeps invigorating us every day? I would also say to Mr Hermans that it is not as bad if I do not know every VVD plan, but that it is bad if he does not know every VVD plan himself. After all, Mr Azmani has made it clear that the plan means that only asylum in Europe can be granted to European asylum seekers, i.e. to people from their own European continent. That is what the plan says, and Mr Hermans can read it himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u100	Mr De Graaf's remark in the interruption was that the Azmani plan would no longer allow refugees to enter the Netherlands. I have fought that, because according to the plan it is possible. However, the reception and the first check take place there and not in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u101	No, the Azmani plan states that asylum in Europe, i.e. in European countries, can only be granted to refugees from European soil. This means that all those people from Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan should no longer be allowed to receive asylum in Europe themselves. I would like to propose to Mr Hermans that he read his own party documents better from now on. Of course we have problems. These relate to two things: direct reception capacity and public support. What or who is strange is often by definition threatening and the smaller a community is, the heavier the impact of the arrival of large groups of newcomers. We don't need the Orange to realize that. It seems sensible to us that the immediate emergency shelter can only be large-scale where there is room for it, both physically and mentally. Fortunately, there are many examples of generous shelter, such as in my own city of Nijmegen, which offers space for 3,000 refugees. It is a matter of shoulder to shoulder and all hands on deck, as the mayors and the Prime Minister say, but the Netherlands can handle it and the refugees deserve our humane attitude. I would like to express my deep appreciation for the people of the COA, the municipalities and the refugee organisations and for all those volunteers, for their tireless commitment. The question is, moreover, whether we can do with the resources available for this purpose. My party would very much regret it if additional resources, if they are needed, were found in the development budget. This must be used primarily for stability and prosperity in the regions from which many refugees come or are now being received. I would like to receive a response from the government on this point. The political debate is mainly about borders. We must assume that, in the coming years too, refugees will come to Europe and that, by definition, we will have to deal with a strict, just, European-based and, where necessary, sober asylum policy, without losing sight of humanity. As far as my group is concerned, one fundamental limit must certainly not be exceeded: people who are legally admitted here can never be treated as second-class citizens in the provision of housing, social security, the labour market or health care. I would like a firm confirmation from the cabinet that it is not intended to put refugees in container homes for years and years. After all, we should not call that a civilisation in the Netherlands. We cannot talk about the refugee crisis without taking account of the European context. There are groups who would like to think away from Europe and would like to take advantage of it at any time in order to take their share of Brussels' meddling and lack of patriotic autonomy. But is that the problem? As an experiment of thought, I am trying to imagine that the EU would not exist or that the Netherlands would leave. Would it then increase prosperity, reduce crime, eliminate international tension at the borders of our continent, combat terrorism more effectively and dry up the flow of refugees? Fear prophets tend to make us believe that, but reality would rather be the opposite. The European continent would become a chaos of states that would protect their own trade and industry but are not up to the big players in the global economy. Nationalism within its own borders would not shut our country down for international mafia or terrorism and refugees would also ask for asylum. And anyone who would then want to build a wall around our country, figuratively and literally, would find that this is not actually possible in a delta and that this would seriously restrict their own population in the freedoms and fundamental rights that we have enjoyed for so long. By the way, even in North Korea, it is not possible to keep a country tight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u102	May I ask Mr De Graaf about his thought-experiment pro-Europe? I can follow this pro-European approach, but it will be useful to take joint action at the European external border, as proposed by the European Council. You'll know from each other what information and what ministry messages there are. It seems logical to me that you use IT and exchange data for that. In my opinion, this also fits in with Mr De Graaf's thought experiment. I understand he's still hesitant about this. I agree with him that we should not build dikes and dig canals here, but do I understand now that he wants to shoot this out of the sky so that data traffic cannot cross borders to have a little secure control? This is a serious question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u103	It is a serious question, but my thought experiment is going the other way, if we did not have Europe. Mr Brinkman is thinking of the Europe we do have, and he wants to strengthen it even further. I am not against further stepping up cooperation. I'm gonna go into that. However, this means that we must also be prepared to exchange data. Moreover, we must always consider what public services need in relation to the privacy of people who need to be protected. We will have to make difficult choices on occasion. This is a point of discussion which Mr Brinkman also refers to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u104	My question is how Mr De Graaf will make that choice. After all, you do not know in advance who is benevolent and who is evil.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u105	I didn't hear the last of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u106	How do you make the choice if you don't know in advance who's benevolent and who's malicious? You're probably gonna have to exchange some more data in order to eventually seven. We are all careful, but Mr De Graaf must choose and not just carry out thought experiments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u107	I hear Mr Brinkman saying that we should probably share some more information. So he doesn't know how far that should go either. I do not think you should rule out this debate in advance. It is important that we protect our external borders and equip our public services to the maximum. Moreover, fundamental rights always apply and we must protect these fundamental rights. In addition, we must weigh the infringements against the effectiveness of such choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u108	So you can't wait months for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u109	The latter was not clear to me either. I do not know what Mr Brinkman meant, but I assume that the exchange of views on this point will continue. Thus, the scenario of "own sovereignty first" fails in all respects, but muddling with the European Union in the present way is not an option either. After all, half a Europe is not a Europe. We have seen this in the difficult way in which the Union has linked itself to the Greek tragedy. On the other hand, I would like to express my appreciation for the calmness and perseverance with which Minister Dijsselbloem acted as President of the Eurogroup. The Greek crisis raised the question of the future of the European currency, but also the question of whether there is a European future at all without the euro. As Angela Merkel put it: "Scheiters der Euro, Dann shuiters Europa." The currency is not only an expression of monetary European unity, it is also one of the cores of the overall European project and has a great political, even geopolitical, weight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u110	I know Mr De Graaf as an enthusiastic European. He is very much in favour of cross-border European cooperation to promote the rule of law, democracy and human rights. I'll share that with him. Now the European confesses to being a "Merkelian." Mr De Graaf now cites Angela Merkel by saying: if the euro fails, Europe fails. That goes a step further. We will then make the euro a sine qua non. We had European cooperation before we had the euro, didn't we? Moreover, part of the European Union does not have the euro, but these Member States are still trying to share in European cooperation. Is Mr De Graaf now going to say that Mrs Merkel's statement is the line that D66 chooses: European cooperation has become totally dependent on the euro? I had not read this before in the publications of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u111	We have always been in favour of the European currency. Mr. Kox knows that, too. Then we have a situation in which we have the European currency. Now it is the question, and that answers Mrs Merkel, and I agree with her that if the euro were to fail now, it would break a foundation under Europe. That would be extremely serious. Do you know why, Mr. Kox? Because it is not only an internal European project, but also because it has to do with the relationship between the European continent and other major players in the world economy. One looks at Europe and wonders how stable Europe is, whether it can solve the problems at the borders and whether it is so stable financially and economically that one can count on it. That is why the euro is so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u112	Just a little more specific. Indeed, if the greatest monetary experiment in world history fails, that is a problem. We shall soon be able to agree on this. The question is whether the failure of this experiment will result in the failure of European cooperation. I think that's way out of line. Some people have this fear of European cooperation: a great Germany which has exchanged its mark for the euro and now wants the euro to become the decisive element of European cooperation. The fact that Britain is not participating is, in part, already a failure, and that other countries are barely able to stay with it is also partly a failure. I cannot imagine D66 saying that if the euro fails, a foundation will disappear under European cooperation. Isn't that too gloomy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u113	It's not about what you wanted or found useful 30 years ago, it's about the current situation. The euro is now an important presence and important economic importance for Europe's core countries. The euro cannot simply be wiped off the table, because if it does, more will happen than the currency will disappear. That is what Mrs Merkel says, and I very much agree with that. I know from the SP and Mr Kox that they think differently about the euro. That doesn't need to be published here again. We already know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u114	I thank Mr De Graaf for the nuance. Now he says it would be a big problem if the euro were to fail. We agree on that. But I find that he has not become a Merkelian, because Mrs Merkel has really said something else. She said: 'Shooting the Euro, Dann shines Europe'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u115	That is exactly what I have just quoted, but Mr Kox's statement is better. In fact, he says the same thing as me: if the euro fails now, Europe has a big problem and fails, regardless of whether Mr Kox was in favour or against the introduction of the euro ten or fifteen years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u116	Following on from this point. Mr De Graaf rightly says that the euro is very important for the success of the European project, at least for the end of the question of how the currency can be kept whole. The same applies to the issue of refugees, as Mr De Graaf points out. We have a Europe of different economic speeds. We have seen the problems arising from this in the euro: poor countries, rich countries, successful countries and less successful countries. It's hard to keep a coin together. We see this again in the refugee crisis. If refugee quotas are distributed across Europe, groups of refugees end up in Hungary and Romania, for example, and it is far less attractive to be taken care of there than in other European countries. How does D66 look at the risk that within a Europe without borders you will get movements of asylum flows to where the situation for refugees is best?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u117	That will be in the rest of my speech. I am in favour of European agreements and therefore of a European distribution. I believe that this has to do with the need to jointly bear the burden, insofar as it is a burden, and to ensure that not all refugees go to one part of Europe. We have a joint responsibility which must take account of economic differences and the capacity for reception in the economic sense. We should take this into account, and this should be a guiding principle in Europe based on the idea: we must all bear responsibility for the control of refugee flows.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u118	That's exactly what I said. My question to Mr De Graaf is how to ensure that those divided prisoners across Europe remain where they are assigned and that asylum seekers assigned to Hungary or Romania do not then take the bus to Austria, Germany or the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u119	If they have a status, they should go on holiday to another part of Europe. If we are allocated 7 000 or 8,000 refugees who are received here and given a status, they will be provided here and they will be regarded as citizens. Then they have rights here that they do not have in other European countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u120	Finally, Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u121	Yeah, I understand that, but that still doesn't answer my question. Mr De Graaf also saw the footage that asylum seekers in Hungary get buses from the Hungarian government, go to the Austrian border and that they cannot be stopped at the Austrian border because of the massism. If those groups of asylum seekers, who end up in parts of Europe where they are not well and go looking for a part of Europe where they can have better; how does Mr De Graaf see European cooperation, European responsibility and shared responsibility in this context?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u122	I've already given the answer. Economic conditions will have to be taken into account, but of course it cannot be that you make European agreements on a proportional distribution and that you then say: but, at the same time, anyone can go to Sweden or the Netherlands or to Germany. Because then you don't have a proportional distribution. If, in uncertain times, we want to be a shield for our citizens against all these threats and risks, I would also mention the irresponsible Russian expansion drive, which is not enough for half a European cap. Then we will have to take steps forward to safeguard common interests. This is particularly true of the refugee issue. Merkel and Hollande are right to call for more Europe. Only together and with a proportionate distribution can the pressure of refugee flows be controlled and only together can we do more at the external borders of Europe and invest in the reception of refugees in the region. And the Chancellor and President are also right to call for a more offensive Europe aimed at conflict resolution and prevention within and outside the EU. My group therefore believes that it is essential that we strengthen Europe instead of slowly crumbling it. Germany and France are calling for a further development of political union. I would also like a response from the Prime Minister. Does he agree with me that a strong political union can not only be built around the German-French axis, but that British involvement is essential and that he must do everything possible to keep his friend Cameron in mind? And does he agree with me that there should be a new foreign strategy of the European Union that gives Europe one voice instead of the European countries constantly competing with each other in order to be able to say something, for example in the Security Council? Finally, an important pillar under this political union is enhanced European defence cooperation for which the foundations were laid long ago in the Western European Union. What or who is actually opposed to doing more about this, I ask the government. We are concerned about the international legal order. My predecessor as group chairman, Roger van Boxtel, spoke about this last year. It is not working properly both institutionally and in terms of instruments. The Hague is the world capital of peace, justice and security, but we have not yet been able to establish an MH17 tribunal. The military fight against international terrorism in Syria lacks a clear international legal basis through UN resolutions. And in Guantánamo Bay people are still imprisoned without trial because President Obama cannot lose them in his own country and countries like the Netherlands are not prepared, despite urgent requests, to cooperate to erase this humanitarian disgrace. For the time being, Minister Koenders writes in response to questions from among others PvdA colleague Nico Schrijver and me. What does that mean? Is that waiting for Godot or waiting for a new cabinet? Nor is the national legal order a peaceful property, as is our rule of law. In the political sense, these two are represented by the department which unfortunately was renamed Security and Justice five years ago. It's just the order isn't right. The legal system is under pressure from the difficult functioning of the criminal justice chain with poor communication between the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office and even worse communication between the Public Prosecutor and the Ministry itself. I'm not going to list the affairs and reports of the past few years here. I will continue to do so, but you will understand that, for example, the Hoekstra report has shocked my group. The current Minister of Justice clearly has a picture of the scale of the problem; one photo in the Telegraaf says more than a thousand words... At the time, my group was opposed to the decision to transfer police management to justice because this meant too much concentration of power than is justified under the rule of law and because the police were sang away from the local communities. But there are new reasons: the Ministry is too cumbersome, too comprehensive, too ill-controlled and too flammable. In addition, the Home Office has become relatively orphaned. As far as my group is concerned, we prefer to correct the error immediately, but we will not be able to do so, but we will be able to do so with effect from the next cabinet. The reorganisation of the now national police is still a prayer without end and the budget shows remarkable gaps. How much confidence can we have in the promise that everything will be all right? We see that not only the rule of law but also the rule of law are under pressure. The judiciary is going to limit the court's locations by imposing austerity cuts with all the consequences that this would have for the cities and the people seeking justice. The proposed cuts in legal aid and the rights of the Registry restrict access to justice and are still not out of the books, and under this new minister, the cabinet continues unrelentingly on a dominant repressive course with more powers and less fundamental law protection. The Ministry's mission is to build a strong and modern rule of law. I would prefer to speak of a pretence which, unfortunately, is not being fulfilled. You will understand that, as far as my group is concerned, the chapter on security and justice on the budget requires a strong debate in this Chamber. We are very curious to see what Mr Hermans' words have to do with the cabinet and the plans to amend the budget. By definition, the rule of law operates within a democratic context. And democracy cannot exist without the rule of law. We are celebrating the 200th anniversary of our Parliament, our two Chambers of the States-General, with a festive special United Assembly in a few days' time. By the way, the first serious parliament of course was that of the Batavian Republic, but that party might not be as pleasant. But not only this cabinet and the coalition are fragile, our democracy too. She is constantly attacked, also from her own ranks. Up to four times the leader of the PVV mentioned a fake parliament during the general considerations across the street. By the way, he's been in there for 17 years. The President of the House of Representatives and the Prime Minister then left that insult to parliamentary democracy undisputed. I would say that it is on the Prime Minister's way to explicitly distance ourselves here, part of the same parliament. That's what I really think of Chefsache. And I'm also asking the Prime Minister to be self-sufficient in state-law purity. In the past, ministers were often reprimanded by the Prime Minister when they debited personal views without any basis in cabinet policy, as "human," so to speak, and not as a minister. Unfortunately, this Prime Minister is doing exactly the same thing and is not correcting himself. It is in itself very regrettable that a Prime Minister of the rule of law in the Netherlands believes that it is better for a jihadganger to die in Syria than for him to return here. But it is also impure to defend this as a prime minister as a personal view that is separate from government policy. Impure and incorrect. The principle of unity of government policy simply does not allow ministers to express their own views on sensitive matters which do not correspond to the cabinet position. And it is precisely the Prime Minister who is the constitutional guardian of that unity of government policy. It would be a credit to the Prime Minister if he were aware of that and acted accordingly. Our democracy is fragile and must be maintained. If we're honest, there hasn't been any major maintenance since 1917. We are now several state and other wise committees, but in 100 years we have largely left the matter as it was. Nowhere is conservationism as great as in the constitution. My group believes that any initiative to look again at the state of parliamentary democracy should be rewarded if it is a serious initiative. A year has now passed since Mr Hermans put forward a proposal for a state committee. What is the urgency, even among the initiators? It is not up to my group, but perhaps it is up to the umpteenth lack of real political commitment to genuine democratic renewal. And if that political commitment turns out to be absent in advance, for example because the mission is very lean or because there is too much distance from the leadership of the political parties to really cooperate on such a state committee, then we should not begin to do so. Democracy will not benefit from another empty shell. I assume that the government agrees with me, and hopefully the other groups will agree with me. If we're gonna do it, we're gonna do it right, and we're not gonna do it right. I await with interest the contributions of others and the Government's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u123	Mr. Chairman. Once again, Europe is facing a major joint task. The great recession that hit our continent from 2008 already represented an unprecedented appeal to the ability to cooperate within the Union. With a lot of falling and getting up, that worked. That is where the refugees who are moving into Europe come in. It requires lasting agreements within the Union to find a sustainable response to this. And we see again that that takes a lot of effort and effort. It is tempting to see the refugees, who have now reached our country, as one whole. This is also the case in many cases: we are talking about 'a refugee crisis' or 'the flow of asylum seekers'. We seem to forget that this is about individuals, about people. For example, it's about Abdul, 9 years old. He sells water and tissues in the streets of Istanbul to help keep his father, mother, brothers and sisters alive. There's no education for him in the camp where he lives. In Syria he wanted to be a doctor, but he lost the ability to read and write after two years in the camp. Or it's about the story of Naser and Jumana Hamada. They survived separately from each other the dangerous journey across the Mediterranean. This summer, their daughter Salam drowned during swimming lessons in the Netherlands. People had a life in Syria: dreams, a business, education and a future. Everything has been beaten out of their hands by a gruesome war, in which all the warring parties seem to want to make as many civilian victims as possible. It is important that, in this crisis too, governments give weight to the stories of individual people. If they do not, unemployment is a figure and refugees are only "they." If we, politicians and policy makers, let us slip into such we-they-thinking, we do the people that matter. But we are doing Dutch society or, if one wishes, the Dutch identity deficit. Last year, the whole world was watching when the bodies came home from fleeing MH17. A Russian woman from my circle of acquaintances sobbed: "For you, Dutch, every person counts." Perhaps we in the Netherlands are too little aware of how special and valuable that is and how economical we should be. The stories of refugees seeking a new, safe future in Europe have not yet been completed. Their still awaits perspective, hospitality and support, but also uprooting, fear, misunderstanding and ejection. It is heartwarming to see how many people in our country are willing to help refugees on their way. But it is also important to be concerned with what this means to our society. There are also people entering the Netherlands who are far removed from the freedom and autonomous value of every man, every woman and every child here. It's understandable that that distance raises resistance. Fear is always a bad counselor, but he doesn't disappear by suppressing him. The Netherlands can cope with the arrival of refugees, but that is not self-evident. Language lessons and education need to be organised, and jobs and homes need to be created, which are already not enough for everyone. It is also necessary to invest actively in social cohesion in our country. The stories of people receiving refugees in their neighbourhood also matter. If this is to succeed, the cabinet must also listen to them, take them seriously and help solve their problems. We see how the cabinet, with the Secretary of State for Justice first, the COA, the municipalities concerned and the civil society organisations are working very hard to arrange the first reception. However, we are asking the Prime Minister today what will happen next. Will the cabinet continue with the same great commitment to ensure that refugees will find their way into our country as soon as possible? Will there be additional support for schools and adult education, for example, to teach people Dutch, to develop their talents and to teach them what citizenship means in our country? What is the Cabinet going to do to stimulate dialogue in our society and to reduce fear and incomprehension over and over again? Meanwhile, it is important to keep an eye on why Syrian citizens leave their country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u124	I hear Mrs Barth making a fervent plea for refugees, asylum seekers and so on. I wanted her to do that once for the elderly in the Netherlands. The PvdA has forsaken the elderly of the Netherlands horribly. The budget says that 1.5 billion goes to the reception of asylum seekers. Would it not rather give this to the elderly in the Netherlands? It is the Dutch who have given her the mandate to represent them and their ideas in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u125	It may be up to me, but the elderly in my environment are all very proud of the fact that the Netherlands is open to providing people who flee from a terrible war a safe home. My party doesn't like playing groups against each other. We're just trying to connect people. I do not think it is a real solidarity to remove solidarity with one group from solidarity with the other group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u126	I don't think that connecting's gonna work very well. When I look around the Netherlands, I see how much resistance there is among people against all these asylum seekers. If Mrs Barth is just going to look at participation evenings, then she will have to have a completely different opinion. I do not think there is any solidarity between the groups at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u127	In any case, I see how Mrs Faber's political movement is doing its utmost to destroy the connection in our country with regard to the reception of refugees. Apparently, that movement spins yarn in the polls. However, I would like to point out to Mrs Faber that there is still a large majority of opinion in the Netherlands which is looking for this connection. I have said in my text that it is not self-evident. You have to put a lot of energy into that and pay a lot of attention to it. That also means that you have to have an open conversation with each other and you have to listen to each other. These are all values that Mrs Faber does not stand for. That's her right. However, it does not really help to ensure that people who have fled a gruesome war feel welcome and safe in the Netherlands. I believe that this is necessary in order for this project to succeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u128	I understand those polls hurt a little bit at the PvdA. I get that. But we stand up for the Dutch values and not for all the Islamic values, which, among other things, is pumping into this country by Mrs Barth's party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u129	I am surprised that Mrs Faber says she stands up for the Dutch values. The best evidence for the fact that this is bullshit is literally looking down on us today, funny enough. This hall was built in 1651, three years after the end of the Eighty Years' War. The young republic then began to rule itself and built a room to give shelter to that government, the States General. The ceiling of this room shows what the calling card is with which that young republic presented itself to the rest of the world. And what did that republic show? We come all over the world. If, therefore, there is one party that violates the Dutch values, then it is Mrs Faber's party. Close the borders is the most un-Dutch thing you can say and find. On the contrary, our country has always been an open society, both transferable in terms of human rights and literally. We have open borders to the world. We come all over the world and the world comes to us. Perhaps Mrs Faber herself should attend an integration course, because then she will learn all this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u130	I wholeheartedly support Mrs Barth's call for better integration of status holders. I would like to hear from her how her group looks at the plans to reduce the provisions for status holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u131	Yesterday, the cabinet made agreements: how can we arrange the reception and how can we speed things up? I do not feel that there is a strong austerity, but I have to admit that I no longer had the opportunity last night to have the coalition's plans deal with me in detail. I think it is right that the Prime Minister should explain it in detail later. In my view, the core of the agreement is that there will be more speed to ensure that there will be sufficient housing for refugees with a status waiting for a home and that the level of assistance for refugees will not be affected either. At the moment I do not see much reason to speak of austerity; it is about acceleration, but it is badly needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u132	It is very important that the PvdA makes it clear that there can be no reduction in social rights. This would also be contrary to European rules, because status holders have the same rights as Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u133	I understand that the level of assistance for a refugee is also simply linked to wage developments in the Netherlands. I assume that the Prime Minister will give a comprehensive explanation in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u134	I am happy to listen to Mr Barth's warm and valuable words when it comes to what the Netherlands is good and big at: helping people in need. Just now, the group chairman of the VVD said that he has agreed with the PvdA that we are going to implement the Azmani plan. Although Mr Hermans says it is not there, that plan simply states: Europe for European refugees. So these are not people from Syria, Iraq, Eritrea or Afghanistan. Is he right? Does Mrs Barth say here: we would like to do well, but unfortunately we had to embrace the Azmani plan, together with Mrs Merkel, Hollande and the whole of the European Union? Or does she say: no, this really is wishful thinking of the VVD, we are far from going that far in this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u135	Above all, and with great pleasure, I have noted that the Labour Party and the VVD have once again managed as a coalition to reach agreement on a problem that concerns the emotions of the country. Once again, we have managed to bridge in a good way a gap between our parties assumed by others. Both my party and Mr Hermans' party recognize themselves in the approach chosen by the cabinet. The fact that only refugees from Europe can find a place in the Netherlands is not elevated to cabinet policy. The fact that we are trying to ensure that people who want to come to the Netherlands can already apply for asylum in the region has been taken over. We wholeheartedly support that. If we manage to get people in the region to apply for asylum in the Netherlands, then they will no longer take that dangerous journey with those wrecked boats. We all hope that such dangerous crossings will no longer be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u136	Mrs Barth needs a long answer not to say yes or no. Still, that was my question. Mr Hermans explicitly referred to it as a success for his party that the Azmani plan, which at that time was being debated lately, referred very explicitly to members of Mrs Barth's party and of my party, which has now become government policy and European policy. The fact that Mrs Barth and the PvdA have agreed on a lot of things is excellent. But has the PvdA agreed that the Azmani plan is at the heart of Dutch policy? If that's the case, then we have a problem. If that is not the case, then only Mr Hermans has a problem. Well, I'm not so sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u137	Mr Kox regrets that I need a lot of words, but this issue needs a lot of nuance. I am not going to reduce any question about refugees in the Netherlands to one-letter answers. Just when you're trying to work with just one-letter answers here, you do the business so badly and give you way too much room for emotion. By the way, I did answer his question. The VVD and also the Labour Party recognize themselves in government policy. The element of the Azmani plan which Mr Kox specifically mentioned, namely that the Netherlands would only be open to refugees of European nationality, is not elevated to cabinet policy. That will never happen in a cabinet with the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u138	I really didn't mean to involve Mrs Barth in a game of "no yes and no no." I was concerned that the chairman of the group of the VVD explicitly said that the Azmani plan had become the core of government policy. I think I know that the Labour Party does not agree and does not believe that either. I can ask yes or no, can't I? Is Mr Hermans' statement that the Azmani plan is at the heart of government policy or is it not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u139	Elements of the plan have been taken over, but the plan has not been taken over in its entirety. That's what happens when you rule, because you have to compromise. You should have learned that in a number of lectures from the Deputy State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u140	And in city councils, but that aside. I found it charming that Mrs Barth tried to close gaps between the PvdA and the VVD or deny them: the outside world thinks so but, in reality, that is not the case and everyone can recognize themselves in cabinet policy. Can Mrs Barth really recognise herself in the policy of not allowing status holders to be eligible for the normal housing market anymore, but to allow them to stay in container homes for a long time with a reduction in their welfare rights? Does the PvdA Group want this and does it support it wholeheartedly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u141	I have already indicated, in response to questions from Mrs Strik, that the level of assistance for refugees is simply linked to wage developments in the Netherlands. There will therefore be no discrimination. I understand that I would very much like to hear the details from the Prime Minister that we are now going to build houses very quickly to ensure that status holders can leave the shelter as soon as possible. We are thus getting rid of the blockage in the shelter which is causing so many problems at the moment. Unfortunately, it is necessary to take temporary measures which will lead to sober and fast-built houses to ensure that the flow is resumed. Of course, that can never be a long-term perspective. It is very necessary in the full width of the Netherlands to build more houses and especially social housing, I say with great emphasis in the direction of Mr De Graaf. It is important that there should be more social housing, so that we can offer status holders a good home.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u142	Does Mrs Barth agree with me that asylum seekers who have been granted a status, a temporary residence permit for the coming years, should have the same rights in the housing market as others, not only for container housing, but also for other housing on the ordinary housing market? That's what I like to hear. That does not seem to me to be entirely in line with the government policy she recognised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u143	Once again, as far as I was able to take up the cabinet's plans last night, I understand that the cabinet chooses to build a lot first and that it is only then that it is considered whether it is necessary to take other measures in relation to the status of people in the housing market. It is important for many house seekers in the Netherlands that social housing is rapidly expanded. I hope that Mr De Graaf's party will support that, because I see that in practice his party is in favour of more housing in the free sector. If we give priority to this in the coming years, we are sure that the flow of refugees will not start.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u144	I have another question about the reception in the region that I have also asked Mr Hermans. Now most of the people are already being taken care of in the region. The plan suggests sending people back to that region after all. I have two questions for Mrs Barth. Does she think it is proportionate to receive 100% in the region and nobody here? If she does not think so, does she not think that the Netherlands should invite many more refugees from the region?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u145	I think it is very important that, at European level, much more money goes to the region to improve and alleviate the situation in refugee camps. I have just given an example of a 9-year-old boy who has not been educated for two and a half years, because it is not offered in those camps. That's a scandal. Anything we can do from our rich continent to improve it must be done. At the same time, I believe that, in European cooperation, we need to look at how we divide the flow of refugees in such a way that we do justice to the responsibility we share to offer refugees who are coming safely, shelter and a welcome to our society. However, this must be consistent with the support that we can maintain within our own society. There's a tension in that, and you can't solve it by saying that it only needs a kilo less or one on us, or less at all. I believe that we should always seek the balance between popular support for the Dutch asylum policy and our obligation as a rich and prosperous country with open borders, to provide space for people who are looking for a safe future. I will continue my argument if I may. Meanwhile, it is important to keep an eye on why Syrian citizens leave their country. It is painful to see the powerlessness of Europe and the world to do something about it. Twenty years ago, refugees also came to the Netherlands. Moreover, I cannot stress enough that there were much more then now. At that time they came from the former Yugoslavia. That civil war seemed hopeless, too. It is, and remains, shameful that when the United States needed Europe to put an end to that conflict. The war in Syria is even more complex than it was in Yugoslavia, and Russia's intervention has made the situation more dangerous. After all, there are few illusions about Putin's intentions with the region, our continent and world peace. This conflict can only be brought to an end by a shared international political agenda, starting in Europe. That agenda must therefore be drawn up, however difficult it may be. This is necessary for Syria, but also for ourselves. Our continent is still a beacon of peace, freedom and prosperity for the rest of the world. The refugees see that very well. In our group's view, therefore, the choice is simple: if we do not bring Europe to the world, then the world will come to Europe. The Union therefore urgently needs a joint plan to make an active contribution to peace and security in North Africa and the Middle East. The Netherlands should want to take its traditional lead in achieving this, especially now that the Presidency of the Union is at the door. Is the cabinet willing to do that? What does the Prime Minister say about this task for Europe itself? It is becoming increasingly clear that it is necessary to step up together within the Union in order to cope with major global problems. At the same time, the centrifugal forces are greater than ever. What can and will the Cabinet do to strengthen Europe's legitimacy? Is the cabinet prepared to take on a more active role with our country in the United Nations to help break the deadlock around Syria? Isn't that very appropriate for a country that aspires to a seat in the Security Council? Europe still faces a major joint task: to combat the financial and economic crisis. The Prime Minister and Minister Dijsselbloem made an important contribution this summer to ensuring that the recession did not deepen again by preventing the collapse of Greece and the disintegrating of the Union. You would like all political leaders to be so firmly involved in what they put into practice on behalf of the cabinet this summer: the idea that political stability and predictability are indispensable conditions for prosperity and economic prosperity. With a firm hand, the cabinet has been sailing along all cliffs and whirlpools for three years now, believing that political stability is necessary to bring our country back up the road. Finally, we have land in sight: the economy is getting better. Exports are growing, producer confidence is rising, the housing market is picking up, consumer spending is increasing and employment is rising. It is now a matter of ensuring that all Dutch people benefit from the economic recovery. It's not gonna happen on its own. The groundbreaking Social and Cultural Report of 2014, 'Verduit in Nederland', prepared under the leadership of former colleague Kim Putters, shows that 70% of Dutch people are doing very well. But 30% of Dutch people are at risk of a permanent backlog. In particular, the low-skilled are vulnerable. Their chances of working are reduced by technological developments and robotisation. They are much more often dependent on temporary work, small appointments or flex jobs against their will. The Netherlands is an egalitarian society compared to the rest of the world. That's a big good. The cabinet in the Millions note rightly pays the necessary attention to 'Difference in the Netherlands'. We see how the Minister of Social Affairs is working against false flex contracts and false self-employment and how hard OCW leaders attract the quality of education. That's all meant to give people more opportunities. However, we would like to hear from the Prime Minister whether the urgency cannot and must not go any further. We're not gonna be okay until we're all okay. What more can the Cabinet do to prevent continued poverty of opportunity among large groups of compatriots? The SCP states that the space for self-development and large parts of social security for the most vulnerable Dutch people may become inaccessible, because they can no longer get a permanent job. What broad agenda does the cabinet oppose? The SCP indicates that emancipation through education in our country is slowing down. What plans is the cabinet going to develop to make sure that speed goes up again? Education must break social barriers for new generations, not reproduce them. Does the Prime Minister agree with us? Is our education sufficiently compatible with the society of the day after tomorrow for all children? A job with decent working conditions is still the best basis for a good life. The fact that unemployment will continue to decline in 2016 is therefore clearly positive. However, we see different groups standing too long and too much along the side. The cabinet rightly has youth unemployment high on the agenda and with success: young people are getting jobs faster and faster. However, two groups of people are in structural danger of missing the link with the labour market: the elderly and immigrants. That is why the PvdA Group is calling for their attention. Older people's unemployment continues to rise against the trend as a result of a combination of the crisis and rapid technological change. That is even more sad, because today's 50-plussers were the youthless of the eighties. We cannot accept that the same generation has to pay the toll of an economic crisis twice in its life. Is the cabinet prepared to step up the approach to unemployment among older people, and if so, how?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u146	Mrs Barth is touching on a fundamental shadowy side of the story that things are going well and that the economy is growing again: more and more elderly people are becoming unemployed, they are becoming unemployed and their situation is becoming increasingly hopeless. That's the data the Cabinet provides us with. Mrs Barth asks if the cabinet is going to do anything to step up the approach, but can I ask her what solution her party is thinking of? After all, we are now in a situation where the elderly are long-term unemployed and are still unemployed because of the shifting of the AOW age? Does Mrs Barth, for example, intend to stop raising the age of AOW because this is a dead end? That could be a possibility. Or is she thinking of other measures that we want to take to get that huge group of older unemployed back into prison? Just intensifying policy seems to me to be a good suggestion, but I would also like to hear the ideas of the PvdA Group on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u147	As far as we are concerned, all the legislative proposals on increasing the age of AOW during this cabinet period have been passed by the Chambers. You will not hear from us any initiatives to make further proposals. I don't think the cabinet has any intention of doing that either. It is also important that you stay predictable around the AOW, because people need to know where they stand. Moreover, there is no need to take further action on this. However, I am pleased that Mr Kox agrees with me that the position of older unemployed in the labour market should be improved. It can't be that people with a lot of experience and a lot of life wisdom end up on the side because of all kinds of causes. The tricky thing is that there isn't one golden measure that can solve this, because it's a whole range of factors that work on this. Mr Hermans has already dealt with this. What you might think about is stepping up education programmes for the elderly. Many employers have the impression that older people are less closely linked to technological development. When I look at myself, it's true from time to time. However, it is important that we keep older people in mind and that older people can continue to participate in the labour market, even if there is rapid technological progress. It is really important that the cabinet puts this high on the list of priorities. It cannot be that the general trend of unemployment is that it falls and that unemployment continues to rise for this particular group of people. That would be really unacceptable. Even immigrants do not yet find their way to the growing labour market. The Prime Minister has sometimes said that they have to fight a little harder, but that is just too easy for us. Studies, recently here in The Hague, show time and time again that there is some discrimination among employers. That's what the cabinet has to fight actively. This country has a beckoning perspective: if you do your best in school and work hard, you have access to a good life. Surely we do not want to run the risk that that perspective for immigrants has only limited credibility? After all, this can permanently disrupt our society. Not to mention the negative impact on the growth potential of our economy when young talent is lost just because of the last name. Is the Cabinet prepared to improve access for immigrants to the labour market, and if so, how? People who are chronically short of time are (young) parents. The cabinet is making a serious effort this year to ease their struggle to combine labour and care. As a PvdA group, we are very pleased with the government's strong investment next year in childcare, playgrounds and paternity leave. These are much needed and will certainly make a positive contribution. But there's still a lot to be desired. The Netherlands is absolutely not a frontrunner in facilitating the combination of works and concerns. I see young mothers who are determined not to put their talents under the choir size. And rightly so, because girls perform better than boys in education on all sides. I also see young fathers working very hard: on average 40 hours a week, and that is more than men working in any other phase of their lives. I'm sure they don't all do that to avoid the diapers. Many young people live in an (too) expensive house, flooded by the economic crisis and the cost of childcare has increased considerably. Many have since returned to informal care. That's got nice sides. But you can also lie awake at night as a mother, when grandpa or grandma suddenly falls out and at work you just have an important assignment to finish. Or as a father, if your child is unhappy at school and you can't afford to work shorter. For these young people, who have so many positives to offer to society for the future: their work lust, their ideas, the new generations they raise; shouldn't it all be so difficult for these young people? As a government, shouldn't we want to give them maximum support? In our ageing country, we all have an interest in ensuring that they do sail, don't we? I would also like to draw attention to the children themselves. It is often not easy for them either. In the morning in stress into care or school, because the times of amenities and work are often poorly interlinked. Unfortunately, the educational quality of childcare leaves a lot to be desired.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u148	I would like to ask Mrs Barth what she thinks of the one- and two-earners. I hear her say a lot of things about people getting tangled up, because they have to take care of their families and also have their work to do. Recently, it has been investigated where the single-earners are. They appear to come from all political parties. How does Mrs Barth look at that big difference between two- and one-earners?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u149	As far as our group is concerned, the question of whether we are talking about single single-earners or single-earners with a partner must be looked at in a nuance. For we, Mr Schalk, will not be surprised, as a Labour Party, attach great value to the economic independence of individuals. This economic independence of individuals must be encouraged by the government and not slowed down.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u150	Then I would like to ask Mrs Barth how she looks at the freedom of choice that should and could exist within families if people consciously choose to have one partner take care of, and very often, in addition to caring for the family, care should also be provided, and the other partner should be the earning partner. There are clear examples of a earner's family earning €40,000 and paying €10,000 tax, while a two-earner's family earning the same amount pays €2,000 tax. That's a big deal. Isn't that unjust?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u151	Mr President, through you, I would ask Mr Schalk to be allowed to speak on my text, because I will go into more detail on this subject. I'd like to invite him to interrupt if necessary. Otherwise, I'm afraid I'm gonna fall into repetition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u152	I would ask Mr Schalk, if he has any further questions, to save them for the next term. After all, the Prime Minister will have another obligation in due course, so that I will suspend later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u153	In the Netherlands there is no integrated, good provision for all 0-4 year olds, while good childcare can have such great significance in those important early years of a human life. School children with working parents usually have too long afternoon breaks, with, once again, often lagging quality of care: often variable, often by people who do not always know how to treat larger groups of children in a pedagogical manner. And then from school to another place for after-school care, which doesn't always connect to the sports club or music school you want to go to. Here too, the sigh fits: surely this should be easier and better? Every investment we make as a society in our children, we earn back double and cross-reverse when those children are grown up. Surely, as a government, we should want to explain the red carpet for optimal opportunities for the development of young generations? Or, more specifically, to give a strong boost to the quality of education and the connection between childcare, pre-school, intermediate and post-school? The Netherlands, now I come to Mr Schalk's point, is the champion of the one and a half household model, and that seems ideal. But it is bad for women's economic independence. Many women only find out when it is too late: if they are alone. Too many single women end up in poverty when they are older or still have school children. Before the outbreak of the crisis, the number of economically independent women grew exuberantly. However, this development has stopped since 2008. As a result, it is still too often that women are already part-time silently rolling in the care of their children for their parents. We also know from these carers that they are having a hard time, especially because, again, the combination with paid work is often complicated. For many people, work is not only a source of financial autonomy, but also of meaning. Given the high labour productivity in the Netherlands, we have a lot to do, and rightly so. But life is more. The struggle to give time and attention to those who love us also deserves a political response, a political agenda that deals with the fair sharing of work and care, time and attention. Does the Prime Minister agree with us? What could the cabinet do to further improve and facilitate the combination of work and care at all stages of our lives? How, for example, could we encourage a four-day working week for men and women? This is good for the quality of our society and for the earning power of our country. Is the Cabinet prepared to develop a broad political agenda with proposals and ideas to support all those hard-working parents of younger children and children of older parents? I'll come to a conclusion. Last summer, in more media than I like, I found the assumption that the Rutte/Asscher cabinet was pretty much ruled out, now that all the major reforms in the coalition agreement have been adopted by Parliament. But anyone who takes the rest of the media coverage can see how much such scribblers seem to live under the Binnenhofse kaesstolp. As if reality changes on the day a law is passed; as if governing does not mean much more than defending legislation in parliament. Once again, Europe faces a major joint task. In our turbulent, uncertain world, in which peaceful coexistence and justice are under pressure for so many people, the importance of bridging political differences is greater than ever, in order to manage our continent and our country well. Each government's mission is to leave to our children and grandchildren a safe, prosperous, sustainable and inclusive world. That is why we need a cabinet with a warm heart, a cool mind, a firm hand and an open eye for the future. The Prime Minister is celebrating his first lustrum tomorrow. I would like to congratulate him on that. We wish him and his team also for 2016 and also a lot of wisdom and inspiration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u154	I shall suspend the debate and the sitting for lunch until 2.30 p.m. I would ask you all to remain seated for a brief statement from the Registrar.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u155	Mr. Chairman. As you know, at the request of the House of Commons, the Registry has produced a memorabilia on the occasion of the 200th anniversary of the First Chamber. I offered the first copy to the President on Friday. You are now all given a copy, including the members of the cabinet. For the first time, the House of Representatives has commissioned a comprehensive standard scientific work on its history. That book will be ready later in the day at the service desk for the members.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-eerstekamer-3.u156	Thank you, Warrior. I wish everyone a lot of reading pleasure with the books in 200 years of State-General.
