ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is an additional order of business. I give the floor to Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. As a Chamber, we asked for an appreciation of the cabinet on the refugee issue earlier this day. As a Chamber, we were particularly interested in the fact that Chamberwide was in an appreciation of the number that Europe wants to assign countries to receive refugees. May I express an appreciation for the note we received from the cabinet? This is not in line with the request made by the Chamber, because the important point that we want to discuss this evening is going to be dealt with here, and I have to say to the Cabinet that it is not available at the moment. Now I understand very well that, given the problems ahead, the topicality is there to talk about this, but I think that where this is the jumping point, tonight as a Chamber, we are really debating with one hand on our backs if the cabinet has not taken that position. So I indicated that to some extent this afternoon to my group asking for the debate to be postponed. It's gonna get wider by itself. I also think that speaking time should be extended, and I think that we need to be able to have a full debate, and that is my main point. My proposal is to postpone, extend and extend the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u3	The proposal is a postponement and an extension of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u4	The PVV once again supports both proposals. This is a very important EU plan on which the cabinet simply does not want to clarify its commitment and position. Then there is indeed no point in a debate. So support..
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u5	I had a little bit of an arm this afternoon, but we have been able to read the letter. It's kind of meaningless. So I support Mr Pechtold's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u6	I wholeheartedly support both proposals. Should the debate continue this evening, I would like to ask those who will take care of it, because the coalition would like to allow it to continue this evening, at least to support the second part of Mr Pechtold's request, namely an increase in speaking time. Given all the extra letters we have received over the last few days, I really can't get my input on so many important points in four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u7	The CDA Group supports both Mr Pechtold's proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u8	Support for both proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u9	I understand the D66 proposal, but at the same time I see that we have already postponed the debate for a week. We could talk about the letter of May 26 which is before us. I expect that in two weeks' time, when we have the annotated agenda of the European summit, we will be back here to talk about the same subject. So, as far as I'm concerned, a first kick-off tonight and we'll continue in plenary in two weeks' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u10	As I said, last week we discussed the option of planning the debate not this week but later, so that the part that Mr Pechtold is asking for can also be included in the letter. He specifically didn't want that. So as far as I'm concerned, we're just having the debate tonight. I have no objection to extending speaking time, but that is obviously up to you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u11	As far as I'm concerned, we can just have the debate tonight. There is a European Agenda on Migration and there is a first appreciation of the cabinet. We can have the debate on this with each other. We still have a debate ahead of the JHA Council, the first time we meet in Brussels to discuss the proposals. I am happy to extend the speaking time, but that is up to you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u12	Mr Pechtold, I have to say that there is no majority in favour of your proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u13	Mr. Chairman. I can also say that, but I would like to point out to my colleagues and also to point out that this means that we will probably have several debates in the last few weeks before the recess. I can see that the next debate is not enough. However, I also foresee that other countries will all form their opinions and that we in the Netherlands will have a debate in a moment, however you are in it, in which the whole cabinet position does not really matter anymore, because we are then overtaken by current events. So I think we need to speed up our appreciation. I believe that there should be a full debate on everything. I agree with Mrs Kuik that this could also have led to an understanding of the opposition last week. I admit that. I already said that this afternoon. However, I am making an urgent appeal for the last time. Let us not have two debates on the same subject. That gives a lot of grumpy, while we can probably do it well next week, with a little delay and pressure on the cabinet to come up with an appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u14	I'm trying to come up with a solution. If we do not now go for a plenary debate next week, but for a comprehensive general consultation, as we always have before a JHA Council, where this letter is also there and when we then complete it in plenary, as is customary. Then we do nothing double up and meet Mr Pechtold's wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u15	I can only speak for myself, so I'll take a look at the mimicks of my colleagues. I do not attach any importance to the Chamber in which the debate is taking place. As far as I am concerned, a plenary session would be good. I'll let the contents prevail over the hall. I'd rather have it next week, but I'd like to ask the coalition. I'm going to negotiate with the chairman now to make sure that that appreciation is there next week, because I think that's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u16	Let's go back. Mrs. Kuik has made a proposal. Mr Pechtold says: that is fine. That is what overruled his proposal. I'll take a look at the members. What do they think of this new proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u17	Then it's still about timing. The JHA is scheduled in principle in two weeks' time. We're still waiting for a few pieces. So I would say: in two weeks' time, let us have a more comprehensive AO than we normally do with a plenary round. That's my counter-proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u18	These are all interesting procedural proposals. I am here tonight to have a debate with the Prime Minister. We're a little stuck with that letter. It'll be postponed. I think that is a problem, but I do attach great importance to a debate with the Prime Minister on this important issue. I am not in the mood for an AO with a minister in two weeks' time, when we all see that this is a point that should be discussed with the Prime Minister after delay. I would like to put that down with Mr Pechtold. How would he weigh that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u19	The House does not matter to me, but I fully agree with Mr Buma that the content must be correct and that the appreciation must therefore be there. If we accept Mrs Kuik's proposal, we can also involve other things. I like that, too. I agree with Mr Buma that content and persons are central. That's the Prime Minister for me, too. However, I did not hear Mrs Kuik suggest that the Prime Minister is not present.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u20	That's what I assumed. We are talking about turning this plenary debate with the Prime Minister into a general discussion. That will be with the Prime Minister again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u21	There is perhaps another idea that I would like to tell Mr Pechtold. He just said in his introductory words that he wants to prevent us from getting mustard after the meal and discussing things, while other Member States have already taken up their positions. If we go along with the coalition's proposal to keep the AO in two weeks' time, we will be facing the European summit. Then we will be back in plenary, because then we will simply get the annotated agenda of the European summit. So we can only talk about the letter of 26 May for the first time in two weeks. That would be very late.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u22	I heard Mrs. Chicken say "at least two weeks." The coalition, too, would benefit if I heard those parties say that all these pieces are there, as far as humanly possible. That's probably two weeks from now. We hope this is on Tuesday. It'll take as little time as possible. I agree with Mr Voordewind, but I think we should be realistic about being overtaken by time tonight. If the letter is as clear as it is today, there will not suddenly be a position from box K tonight. It's a waste of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u23	I'm going back to the proposal. Not a debate this evening, but a general discussion in preparation for the JHA Council on Thursday morning 11 June, with the Prime Minister and with increased speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u24	I would like to support the proposal as you put it, provided that the directors whom we would welcome tonight in trade union K are there and that we have broad speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u25	I can also support this proposal, but with the explicit remark that the cabinet therefore chooses a clear position. Mr Pechtold has also indicated this. That is why we cannot have a useful debate now. The letter from the cabinet with its position on the European Commission's proposals must therefore really be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u26	And not on that Wednesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u27	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u28	From Mrs. Kuik's mimicry, I would say that the letter will then be there. However, I see that she does not agree. I'll rephrase it. We assume that the letter will be there in good time, otherwise Mr Pechtold will undoubtedly be here again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u29	The PVV can also live with the compromise. Timely a cabinet juice appreciation and then a spacious AO with the Prime Minister and with ample speaking time. Then a plenary session.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u30	Let's do it like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u31	I'm still looking. If that letter is received, I do not rule out the possibility that it could be a reason for a plenary debate. We are talking about a general discussion in two weeks' time, but it is an issue that we would already be discussing without a letter. I would like to consider the way in which we are going to have that debate at the moment when the letter is available. Mrs Kuik has a question about that before I finished my sentence, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u32	I would like to make a comment. It's a choice now. I'm doing a hand-out, but at some point, it has to be done with everything you want to put on top of it. Either we hold a debate tonight with the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State or we hold a wide-ranging general discussion with a plenary session in two weeks' time. Both possibilities may be mine, but it is not the case that we then add a whole menu of choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u33	We're not gonna do that. I note that there is a majority in favour of the compromise proposal. The AA on the JHA Council is planned anyway. Should there be a need for a plenary debate by then, you will undoubtedly all return to this Chamber. I conclude that tonight's debate is off. On 11 June, a general consultation with the Prime Minister is scheduled prior to the JHA Council and with more speaking time than we are used to. In fact, this has to be settled at a procedural meeting of the committee. But with this broad support, that can hardly go wrong. Mr Voordewind, I should like to conclude with this. We are in the middle of a debate to be completed at 6 p.m. We still have to keep the second deadline. You will be given the floor very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u34	I have a brief comment to make. Mrs. Kuik gives the Chamber the option: either tonight or in two weeks. I'd like to make an appeal to the MPs to go for tonight anyway. The debate in two weeks' time is already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u35	We have just had this discussion. Mr Pechtold's proposal has been amended. That amended proposal has a majority. I therefore conclude as I have just concluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u36	In your almost complete summary there is still one small thing missing, namely the final vote in plenary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-28-tweedekamer-9.u37	That is true, but it was in Mrs Kuik's proposal, Mr Pechtold. After a brief suspension, we will resume the debate with both Secretary of State.
