ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister to the First Chamber. I call Mr Knapen, who is making his maiden speech today. That's why I'm making the mood bell ring.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. My presence here in my home would have been called "a late calling." Whether it will turn out to be a calling, of course, the future still has to tell, but let me point out that my first impressions are extremely positive. I have noticed that not only firm opinions and strict beliefs are being expressed here, but that there is also room for doubt. Here and there there is even room for intellectual scepticism. So there is also room to learn from each other. What else does a human being want in a democratic arena? First of all, let me thank the government for its response to questions raised by, among other things, our colleague, Mr van der Linden, who has been waved off. Let me also point out that my group agrees with these association agreements. We are talking today about association agreements with a heavy political load. You can consider them quite clinically, as agreements to promote trade among ourselves, but we all know that this is only part of the story. It is also about standards, the rule of law and anti-corruption. This is discussed and reviewed in Association Councils and Association Committees. The government, like the Commission itself, is talking about administrative reforms, the promotion of stability and sustainable welfare development in these three countries. In implementing the association agreements, a large part of the European acquis is taken over, according to the government in its response. If that were the case, successful implementation of what we all hope will bring closer to membership of the European Union. No, the government says that the neighbourhood policy has always been presented as an alternative to membership. But is this true? Of course, the procedures are different, but those who largely comply with the acquis are already well on the way to meeting the Copenhagen criteria, and thus becoming members. In addition, the three countries themselves, Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine, see this as well. For them, association is indeed a portal for membership. If you walk through Tbilisi, you will also see considerably more European flags than around the Binnenhof. Understand me, my group is certainly not in favour of membership, but no one has drawn borders from the European Union in any treaty. Article 49 of the European Convention gives all European countries the right to report. Don't forget what we Europeans have forgotten in our groaning on Europe. Europe is a pleasant place with better legal status than anywhere else in the world, with less corruption than anywhere else in the world, with better access to education than anywhere else in the world and with a more reasonable relationship between rich and poor than anywhere else in the world. This makes an association treaty for these three countries, above all, a political choice towards the European Union and, if successful, they will also report. Does the government have any ideas about this? Would she like to go a little further than the innocent statement that this is not at present being discussed? We've seen how it's been in the past. Member States have different views, compromises are sometimes needed and before you know it, an association agreement is not an alternative to membership, but a portal of membership, expectations are raised and we are on a rolling train. But let's face it. The old idea of expanding and deepening the European Union has only partially become a success. The EU as we now find it on a daily basis, with 28 Member States and sometimes completely different expectations, levels of development and mores, has lost its ability to manage and act. It would simply collapse under further expansion. Then there is another subject: geopolitics. We generally do not like that in our country. That is understandable, because geopolitics is unfair, especially for the little ones. Geopolitically, it's about power and powerlessness, and that depends on size, on your random place on the globe or on what's in your soil. These are all things of the realpolitik, not of the normative braiding of international law relations. The European institutions in Brussels are not very good at geopolitics either. They're all handsome guys out there, but they don't have a country and therefore they don't have geopolitical reflexes. At the same time, this makes the European Union so capable of multilateralism, but also somewhat blind to the geopolitical dimensions. This makes the discourse at the Brussels offices on association agreements so technical, so operational, so procedural and so little political. For others, this is primarily about geopolitics. Former President of Ukraine, Yanukovych, did not refuse his signature under the Association Agreement at the end of 2013 because he had problems with the agricultural paragraph of the Treaty. No, for him, it was a choice between Moscow or the West. The population did not enter the Maidan Square because of the provisions of the association agreement, but because of geopolitics. The outcome is known. With this agreement, the three countries choose Europe and, whether we like it or not, against Russia. For the same reason, Armenia has, under heavy Russian pressure, abandoned the association. Then I come to another point. Let us not underestimate what is coming to us if we are to help these three countries along a hostile geopolitical path. Ukraine has characteristics of a fragile state. Russia can, without too much effort, extend this situation over and over again, despite all the support and assistance from the European Union and the United States. Does the government also consider using this agreement to exert adequate pressure on Ukraine to do the right thing and to leave the wrong thing? Moldova is experiencing these days the strange resurrection of oligarchs over whom a dark shadow hangs. The people choose them as mayors and a pro-European prime minister has once again had to clear the field, in his case on charges of falsehood in writing. Our government is talking about what is called conditionality. Can the government say exactly what this fine term means in the case of Moldova? Which brings me to the neighbors' neighbors. For Russia too, these agreements are not a technical economic route, but a major geopolitical one. For the Kremlin, all these revolutions are threatening as in Ukraine or even now in Macedonia. For President Putin, resistance to the political trend in the three association states is also motivated by fear that such a thing could skip to his own country. He does not like this type of revolution with Western values such as democracy, rule of law and transparency. The political and mental distance between the West and Russia has increased rapidly and President Putin feeds ancient chauvinism. The sadness of the lost empire, the classic surrounding complex: President Putin can go shopping to get the people behind his aggressive and sometimes blunt international performances. With the annexation of Crimea, Russia has just laundered the 1994 Treaty in which Ukraine surrendered its nuclear weapons in exchange for a guarantee of sovereignty. Nor is the intriguing behavior in eastern Ukraine very reassuring, and we would rather not talk about the cynicism surrounding the MH17 drama. However, we must not allow ourselves to be guided by feelings, for example by this President. He stands for a reality. It symbolizes a national reflex of a country that we, too, ultimately need, and which we have been ignorant of in the recent past. That is why we welcome the two-track policy with the government: cooperation with the association countries, but also willingness to talk with Russia and Turkey over and over again about the consequences and to solve problems. And, I would add, I would like to pay attention to the sensitivities and geopolitical dimensions. This brings me to the question of how the government sees the role of NATO in stabilising the situation at the eastern border. What can and should be expected from NATO and from the European Union? How does that relate to each other? Can the government shed light on that? We look forward to the government's stances.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-9.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Knapen. I'm kindly asking you to stand still for a moment. Mr Knapen, congratulations on your maiden speech. It was already known that you were an authority in the field of international relations. However, you surprised us last week, when you presented yourself in flowing Bahasa Indonesia at the reception of an Indonesian delegation in the Count Room. Unfortunately, we do not have any oriental visits on the part in the near future, but I am looking forward to the next one. You studied history in Nijmegen and then worked as a correspondent for the NOS and NRC Handelsblad in Bonn and Washington. From 1990 to 1996, you were editor-in-chief of NRC Handelsblad. You were then director of information at Philips and member of the PCM publisher's board of directors. In 2006 you again became a correspondent for NRC, this time in Southeast Asia. Two years later, you returned to the Netherlands, where you became a member of the Scientific Council for Government Policy and later Professor of Media and Quality at your alma mater in Nijmegen. From 2010 to 2012, you were Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs in the Rutte I cabinet. In this capacity, you were responsible for European cooperation and development cooperation. You then represented the European Investment Bank. From this position, you developed a new investment plan for the EU together with the European Commission. In all these years you have also found time to publish several large publications. I would like to highlight one of these today, because it concerns a man who looks down on us from the upper right corner of the room: Johan van Oldenbarnevelt. In the book De man en zijn staat, you describe the important role he played in the Dutch Republic's creation. Van Oldenbarnevelt is not only represented in this room, his statue looks into the hall from the other side of the court pond through the windows. I can see him from here, he's in the tents of the Beach Volleyball. I think it would scare the hell out of the man, but all right, there he is. And more importantly, he is, as far as we know, buried between the foundations of the old Hofkapel, so down here. Van Oldenbarnevelt was the founder of the nation state and one of the founding fathers of the Netherlands. Since today, he has been represented in this Chamber in a fourth way: by the presence of his biographer who, as a Member of Parliament, spoke for the first time today. Mr Knapen, we wish you every success in your further contribution to the work of this Chamber. I shall suspend the sitting for a short moment to give colleagues the opportunity to congratulate you on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-9.u4	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin with a word of welcome to Mr Ben Knapen and, of course, to the Minister. 25 years after the end of the Cold War, Europe is still facing serious instability on its eastern flank. The Labour Party welcomes the fact that the European Union is taking steps to anchor peace and security and the pursuit of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights in institutionalised cooperation with the countries concerned. For this reason, the PvdA welcomes the signing of the association agreements with Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine. We still have a number of questions that we would like to discuss with the government. I shall make this point in the form of eight points. First of all, I would like to say something about the nature of the three agreements. Article 217 of the EU Treaty lays down in rather general terms the Union's competence to establish an association with one or more third countries which "is characterised by reciprocal rights and obligations, joint action and special procedures." In a dissertation recently defended at Leiden University on the association agreement with Turkey, the Turkish lawyer Narin Tezcan quotes Walter Hallstein, the first President of the European Commission. Hallstein stated that an association could be anything between full membership of the then EEC, now the Union, minus 1%, and a trade and cooperation agreement plus 1%. The government strongly assures that these three association agreements are not a gateway to EU membership, but it is clear that these agreements also involve a great deal more than a normal trade and cooperation agreement. The agreements are political cooperation agreements. They see a step-by-step integration of the economies of the three countries into the European single market. They include comprehensive programmes for constitutional reform, good governance and respect for the principles of the rule of law. Moreover, these agreements also have the characteristics of a kind of development cooperation agreement. For this reason, it is not for nothing "mixed" agreements, i.e. agreements for which the Union is not exclusively competent and which therefore require ratification by each of the EU Member States. Can the Minister make an attempt to point out these three association agreements on the Hallstein scale? Does the government still see significant differences between the three agreements? The second point concerns the political environment in which the three agreements are concluded, in particular relations with Russia, as Mr Knapen has already mentioned. We share the Minister's view that good information and good dialogue with the Russians are needed, but that there cannot be any kind of right of assent. The three countries concerned are independent states. Of course, all countries in Europe benefit from continued dialogue with Russia rather than further confrontation. That is why my group would like to hear an assessment from the Minister of how the current talks with the Russian Government are going and what the role of the association of these three countries with the European Union is in this respect. Can he also inform the Chamber of the state of play in the trilateral talks between Ukraine, the EU and Russia? As is well known, six countries participate in the Eastern Partnership. My third point concerns the question of relations with the three remaining countries: Armenia, Azerbaijan and Belarus. Is it envisaged to conclude an association agreement with one or more of these countries in the long term, or will it remain provisionally with the association agreements with the three countries we are discussing today? The fourth point I would like to make concerns the territorial scope of the three association agreements. Each of the three countries has to contend with the uncomfortable fact that not the entire territory is under effective control of the central government. In Moldova, Transnistria, in Georgia are that Abkhazia and South Ossetia and in Ukraine are that Crimea, which is occupied by the Russians, and part of Eastern Ukraine, where Russian separatists are waving the scepter. What exactly does this mean for the implementation of the association agreements in these occupied territories? Is the population there de facto completely deprived of the economic and political benefits of their country's cooperation with the EU? How is the EU involved in trying to resolve each of these territorial conflicts, or is it, in practice, especially Chefsache, for Chancellor Merkel and French President Hollande? Does the association agreements not threaten to involve the European Union in these territorial conflicts? My group fully supports the Helsinki principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity and the inviolability of the borders of these countries. At the same time, we believe that our involvement in these conflicts should be limited to political and diplomatic efforts and that military interference, whether through NATO or not, should be avoided. Does the government share this assessment? Fifthly, in the legislative proposal on the association agreement with Ukraine, we are asking how compliance with the Minsk II peace agreement of 15 February is going, although the EU as such is not directly involved. Is the implementation of Minsk II more or less on track with regard to the establishment of the broad security zone, the withdrawal of heavy weapons by both parties and the preparations for local elections and self-government in the two contested regions? Are social and economic relations with the eastern region now being resumed, including the payment of pensions and other social benefits to those entitled in eastern Ukraine? I come to the sixth point. The documents received show that each of these three countries still has a long way to go in moving towards a market economy, a full rule of law and a democracy with less corruption and full respect for human rights, including minority rights. The promotion of human rights is something that the countries themselves must first of all achieve, but foreign assistance through involvement, legal advice in the drafting of legislation and training of legal staff, police and prison guards can help in this. We welcome the role of the EU, the OSCE and the Council of Europe and also of individual countries such as the Netherlands. What exactly is the added value of these association agreements in relation to the already existing reform programmes set up and financed under the Neighbourhood Policy and the Eastern Partnership? How is there sufficient coordination between all these institutions and programmes to avoid overlap and conflict of competence and to promote positive cooperation? My group's seventh point was concerned with the provision on the control of migratory flows; in the association agreement with Ukraine that is Article 16. Apart from migratory flows within Europe, can this planned cooperation also extend to the involvement of the three countries in the implementation of the recently issued European Agenda on Migration? My eighth and final point. With the association agreements bringing together so many reform programmes in each of the three countries, the PvdA Group wonders whether the different monitoring mechanisms set up are adequate. These will be mainly bilateral between the EU and the country concerned. Is there sufficient room for input from civil society organisations and knowledge institutions in these countries, or does the government think it is primarily a domestic matter for the countries concerned to give them room for this? We have seen that there is a platform for civil society, but will that work? Finally, to what extent is it foreseen that best practices can be learned? These questions are without prejudice to the fact that the PvdA Group welcomes the growing involvement of Europe and the proposed institutionalised cooperation with each of the three countries concerned. We believe that these three association agreements can contribute to stability, freedom and economic and social progress there. That is why we will wholeheartedly support these legislative proposals. My group looks forward with interest to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-9.u5	Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate my colleague Mr Knapen on his maiden speech. The EU has an unbridled desire for power, a power that expresses itself in the pursuit of the greatest possible territory. This territory should be increased by increasing the number of EU members and by concluding association agreements. The countries of the Eastern Partnership can rejoice in the EU's warm attention. The EU also wants to place European values such as democracy, the rule of law and human rights on the vehicle of free trade on the European East flank. Without political integration, no economic integration, so no access to the European free market. For the record, the Freedom Party has nothing against free trade. The Freedom Party is for free trade, but it seems that free trade is not enough for the European elite alone. The European Union must and will impose its political will and its expansion drive knows no borders. Would the EU also be so firm in imposing conditions on Turkey? To our great discontent, the EU is still negotiating with this country about EU membership, a country where a video of YouTube has recently been censored with cartoons. Today we are discussing the association agreements between the EU and Georgia, the EU and Moldova and the EU and Ukraine, with the aim of economic integration and political association based on shared values. This smells like a future membership. It is clear from the legislative proposals that there is no question of future membership for these three countries. The Minister stated in his reply of 12 May 2015: "Enlargement and neighbourhood policy are two separate paths. In fact, the neighbourhood policy has always been presented as an alternative to membership." My question to the Minister is therefore: have there not been countries that were first in the neighbourhood policy and then joined the EU? Can the Minister guarantee that Georgia, Ukraine and Moldova will not join the EU in the future? I ask these questions because accession of these three countries is theoretically possible; an enlargement that we should not want. As I mentioned earlier, the Freedom Party is a strong supporter of free trade. With these association agreements, the EU is trying to steer politics. This applies not only to the three countries concerned, but also to this Chamber. By dragging human rights into discussions and the framing of the proposals, the parliamentarians may feel tribugnant to being critical and voting against them. After all, the discussion surrounding the many EU proposals often creates the image that you are against human rights when you oppose the proposals. That's a trick that silences a good discussion. It is also a question of whether the Dutch citizen benefits from these agreements. There is already displacement in the labour market and it will only increase. You can wait for a new stream of immigrants to start, because residents from Ukraine and Georgia can eventually travel visa-free; inhabitants from Moldova can do so already. In our own country, there are already large groups of workers on the side who cannot find work, while the retirement age is being increased. In addition, this flow of immigration is likely to increase further as a result of internal tensions in these three countries. There are restless regions that do not recognise central authority or do not recognise it sufficiently. In addition to importing goods, we may also be importing additional problems. Think of Transnistria, which is also called the Mecca of the arms trade. Transnistria supplies weapons to countless terrorist organizations, such as Hezbollah, Hamas and Al Fattah. International intelligence services also suspect Transnistria of selling nuclear material; not really fresh. There is a great chance that such unfresh goods will be delivered to IS. The transit of these goods to the EU will be easier thanks to such an association agreement. What measures will the Minister take to prevent these weapons from being used within the EU for terrorist attacks? The integration of these countries is funded within the European budget by the taxpayer. Why should Dutch taxpayers contribute to, for example, education, social development and respect for diversity in Ukraine? In the Netherlands, there are more and more households that cannot or cannot survive. This will have to do with the redistribution of wealth that the EU loves so much: the EU prefers to make all citizens equally poor. For that, MEPs would like to climb the barricades in Kiev. The EU does not hesitate to interfere in domestic affairs. Liberal MEPs Van Baalen and Verhofstadt seem to have little regard for the liberal principles of as much freedom as possible for the individual and a free market in which the government is reluctant. They have put oil on the fire and fueled the unrest in Ukraine, just to direct Ukraine towards the EU. This is totally irresponsible and contemptuous of the citizens of Ukraine. If the citizens of Ukraine want to conform to European values, they will do so on their own. I'm rounding up. Free trade is fine, but at the same time a political agenda must not be rolled out from the Brussels throne.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-9.u6	I shall give the floor to Mr van den Broek and will press the bell again to state that this is a maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-9.u7	Mr. Chairman. You spoke of a maiden speech. About 34 years ago I also made a maiden speech as a parliamentarians when I was elected to the House of Representatives. The voter then brutally put an end to my parliamentary career in the next election. You will understand that it is therefore of particular importance to me and has a special significance for me to be standing here today and thus to be able to follow up on my political ambitions which have been smothered in the bud. We are discussing today whether or not to approve the association agreements between the EU and Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia. I will focus on the agreement with Ukraine in my comments on this matter. Domestic developments in that country since independence 23 years ago have shown a little positive image: great political instability, economic stagnation and large-scale corruption and self-enrichment of a small elite. The Minister writes in his note on European neighbourhood policy that despite the continued destabilisation of Eastern Ukraine, good progress has been made in implementing the reform agenda. However, there are also a number of areas where progress is still too slow. Major additional reforms are needed in areas such as justice, customs and improving the business and investment environment. How does the Minister view the latter? Is this delay a consequence of the fact that it is a very broad reform agenda and the government is difficult to do everything at once or is there still resistance within the Ukrainian government in these areas? How does the government think that the EU and the Member States can help to overcome the delay in these areas? Ukraine is in great difficulty economically and financially. In order to prevent a complete collapse of the Ukrainian economy, substantial western financial support and technical assistance is needed. In addition, peace at the military front is necessary. The revival of fighting in eastern Ukraine, followed by difficult and energy-consuming political negotiations that will require all the attention of Kiev, would be a serious step-by-step approach to the implementation of the reform agenda. It is therefore essential that the Minsk II Agreement be respected. Since the signing of the agreement on 11 February young people, military fighting has been taking place in Ukraine. There are still Russian soldiers in eastern Ukraine, and while there are ongoing violations of the agreement by both parties, in the view of the OSCE Monitoring Mission, it is not to the extent that it should be concluded that this agreement is also dead, such as the Minsk I Agreement. The first priorities should now be the stabilisation of the ceasefire, the withdrawal of heavy weapons, the exchange of prisoners of war and the start of surveillance and surveillance of the border with Russia. Is that how the Minister sees it? The objective remains the full implementation of the Minsk II Agreement. The EESC welcomes the fact that the EU has explicitly linked the lifting of sanctions to this. In this context, how does the Minister view recent statements by separatist leaders who would point out that they are no longer seeking membership with Russia, but prefer that the so-called People's Republics in Donetsk and Luhansk continue to be part of a confessional Ukraine with weak central authority? This would make the position of those in power in these two so-called popular republics much easier than if they were to become part of Russia again. The EU's action towards neighbouring countries was long, and I believe still somewhat, marked by a certain degree of pride. The way in which we organized our societies politically and economically was the mold, the model, and the former communist countries had to be squeezed there so quickly. My group therefore welcomes the government's commitment to a more equal relationship between the EU and its neighbours in the revision of the neighbourhood policy. Would the Minister address the question of how such a more equal relationship will take place in the implementation of the association agreements? The government also stresses the importance of cooperation in the security field. This is a politically sensitive matter, as Moscow argues that this is a stepping stone for NATO membership. Would the Minister comment on the specific priorities for cooperation in the field of security, on the basis of the relevant agreements in the association agreements? One concrete EU activity in this area is the Advisory Mission for Civil Security Sector Reform in Ukraine. How big is the European Union's mission and what are the first results? Last year's Maidan Revolution was primarily an act of protest against the major political and economic problems that have characterised domestic developments in Ukraine since independence. At the same time, the change of power in Kiev also had a foreign political dimension, because the reason for the revolution was already mentioned earlier today, the decision taken under pressure from Moscow by the then President Yanukovych not to sign the association agreement with the EU. The choice between Russia and the EU, which forced President Putin Ukraine to do so, turned out to be the attraction, say soft power, of the EU, ultimately stronger than the Kremlin's power policy and hard power. During the national elections in October last year, the pro-European parties received the support of 60% of voters, including ethnic Russian or Russian-speaking Ukrainians. Putin thus lost this round in the struggle for Ukraine's place in the world. Crimea has been annexed by Russia and in Eastern Ukraine the conflict may flare up at any moment, but the main prize has escaped him. Kiev and the rest of Ukraine heading towards Brussels and Washington, not towards Moscow. What has brought Putin to this escalation? If he had not said ten years earlier: "If Ukraine wanted to join the EU, and the EU would accept Ukraine as a member, then Russia, I think, would welcome this because we have a special relationship with Ukraine." This, of course, leads to the question of why Ukraine's signing of an association agreement with the EU, a much less far-reaching step than membership, led to the most serious crisis in Russia's relations with the West since the end of the Cold War. In a formal sense, Russia invokes the right, which it has granted itself through a decision of the Duma, to military intervention to protect ethnic Russian and Russian-speaking minorities in other countries. However, the need for the protection of Russian minorities was, in simple terms, a fabrication. It soon appeared that there was much less support for Russian military intervention in their country among the ethnic Russian and Russian-speaking Ukrainians than expected. For example, in large cities such as Charkov and Odessa, where the majority of the population is Russian-speaking, Moscow's attempts to stir up unrest and rebellions have failed, as a possible step towards intervention such as that in Donetsk and Luhansk. In doing so, the legitimacy of Russian action is increasingly absent in the terms used by Moscow itself. A broad-based desire among ethnic Russians and Russian speakers in Ukraine for protection from Moscow has not been found. One real reason for Russian military action is undoubtedly that it is essential for Putin's foreign policy that Ukraine joins the Eurasian Economic Union, which must secure Russia's dominant influence in the post-Soviet neighbours and thus also a stepping stone to the restoration of Russia's position as a world-class superpower. In my opinion, Putin's main reason for anger about the change of power in Kiev is the possible consequences for his own regime, the threat that a successful, popular uprising forced course to the West in Ukraine means for the incumbent power in Russia itself. Mr Knapen also made comments in this direction. In his letter on Russia dated 13 May last, the Minister wrote: "Moscow in which the call for more democracy led to the deposition of autocratic rulers, such as those in Georgia, Kyrgyzstan, Ukraine and Moldova, is perceived by Moscow as a threat to stability throughout the region, but above all to stability in Russia itself." For stability in Russia itself, I share that analysis. The Ukraine crisis is also about the survival of Putin's regime. In this respect, it is interesting that recent polls in Russia indicate that the attitude towards the European Union and the United States has been negative from a majority positive to a large majority negative. At the same time, however, opinion polls indicate that 40% of the Russian population are still in favour of cooperation with the West and 36% are in favour of turning away from the West. Thus, despite the current crisis, there still seems to be a basis for improving relations with Russia, on the basis of greater cooperation. In the short term, however, the policy will have to be a combination of dialogue and pressure that the Minister also uses as a directive, as long as Russia remains the main responsible for destabilization in eastern Ukraine. To sum up, my group can support the approval of the association agreements on both fundamental and practical grounds. The countries on the territory of the former Soviet Union are also entitled to full independence, self-determination and territorial integrity. These are fundamental principles of international law. These agreements support them in that. It is also about our direct self-interest. As the disaster with the MH17 has shown, we cannot assume that developments in Eastern Europe will not affect us directly. Our own security and prosperity are served by stability and economic growth through integration into the European internal market and through cooperation and political association between the countries of Eastern Europe and the European Union, on the basis of core values such as democracy, the rule of law and human rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-9.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would also ask you to stand still for a while. Congratulations on your maiden speech. Like Mr Knapen, you have studied history and you have a wealth of experience in international relations. After your studies, you worked as a scientific assistant at Leiden University and at the Netherlands Society for International Affairs. In 1980 you made the transition to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where you would go through an impressive career. At first, however, you took a short trip to the Binnenhof. You referred to that yourself. You were a member of the House of Representatives from September 1981 to September 1982. Here you were foreign spokesperson for the D66 Group. Following your return to Foreign Affairs, you were consecutively Head of Division, Deputy Director of Atlantic Cooperation and Security, Director of European Affairs, Deputy Head of the UN Permanent Representations in New York and NATO in Brussels, Director of Security Policy and Deputy Director of Political Affairs. Between 2005 and 2013, you were Permanent Representative to NATO in Brussels and later at the United Nations in New York. As of September 2013, you were special envoy to the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the Dutch candidacy for the Security Council and Human Rights Commission. Since 1 September 2014, you have held the Pieter Kooijmans Chair for Peace, Justice and Security at Leiden University. Kooijmans was someone who possessed the unique combination of passion, knowledge of things and a good eye for results. He will undoubtedly be an inspiration to you, including for your work in the First Chamber. With your broad social, diplomatic and political experience, you will make an interesting contribution to the work of the Chamber. We wish you every success in doing so. I shall suspend the sitting to allow colleagues to congratulate you on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-9.u9	Madam President. First of all, the congratulations of the SP Group to our new colleagues Ben Knapen and Hermanör. I am convinced that both will be a great asset to this Chamber, which does not mean that I agree with them in advance, just to answer an informal question from Mr D66. This weekend it is a year since the European Union's association agreements with Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine were signed in Brussels. Today, the question arises as to whether the Netherlands should ratify these signed treaties at the moment. First of all, there is the question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: which countries have not yet ratified the treaties like the Netherlands and why not? What does that mean for the implementation of the treaties? In spite of the lack of ratification, has it already started and, if not, when will it take place after ratification? And what concrete political, economic and financial implications does this have for the Dutch relationship with the three partner countries? My group has called for these treaties not to be dismissed as a hammer piece but to be the subject of a plenary debate in this House. I am pleased that a large number of Members are taking part in this fundamental debate in my view and that the Minister has been able to find time in his busy agenda to discuss this with this Chamber. The Treaties are mentioned historically in the three partner countries. That is enough reason to pay attention to it here too. Does the Minister share the view that this is really about historic steps? It is also a question of ratifying far-reaching cooperation agreements with former Soviet republics, which have led to great resistance in Russia and a serious deterioration in the relationship between Russia and the European Union. I assume that the Minister shares this statement with my group, and I think that this is a good reason to discuss it properly before deciding. A new Cold War has already been mentioned here and there, partly triggered by great disagreement over these treaties. I hope that the Minister will give us his views on the coherence of the association agreements and the worsening relationship with Russia. Mr. Knapen also asked for it. We should do everything we can to prevent a new Cold War, since the previous one is only a quarter of a century behind us. In Ukraine, the Association Agreement is directly related to the overthrow in February 2014 of the government of former President Yanukovych, who at the eleventh hour decided not to sign the Association Agreement for the time being and thus provoked the anger of some of the population and fled in February of last year. The EU and the Netherlands, generally not fond of unconstitutional revolutions, remarkably accepted that overthrow almost immediately and then concluded an association agreement with a democratically at least flawed new government. I assume that the Minister and my group will find this all the more reason to speak about it in plenary, especially since the overthrow of the government in Kiev was one of the reasons why, in the east of the country, the new authority in Kiev was denied control of Crimea and Donbas by referendum, after which the people of Crimea even voted for independence in a referendum, which was illegal but not clear, and then annexed by Russia. In the east of the country, a bloody civil war continued until today. The Association Agreement is concluded with countries which all have only partial control over their territory. It's already been mentioned. In Moldova, Transnistria has withdrawn from central authority, in Georgia, Abkhazia and South Ossetia, and in Ukraine, the Donbas region, while another part of Ukraine, Crimea, has now been illegally annexed by Russia. In Transnistria there are several thousands of soldiers, a remnant from the Soviet era, as well as a large number of Russian and Ukrainian military observers from the stock between the rebellious region and Moldova. In South Ossetia and Abkhazia there are Russian soldiers, officially as observers, but they are seen by Georgia as part of an occupying force of these two separate territories. To conclude treaties with countries dealing with this type of dangerous conflict would in itself seem to be more than sufficient grounds for plenary consideration, especially since the inhabitants of the separate territories will theoretically, but de facto not benefit from the association agreements, as explained by the Minister in his reply. Finally, I would like to mention the fact that the conclusion of these association agreements in the partner countries is seen as a step towards European Union membership. I assume that the Minister is aware of the series of statements made by the partner countries on this matter, and that is why, with my group, it is appropriate to discuss these treaties in plenary rather than as a hammer. Do we, though we do not want to do so, with the ratification of these treaties, hope that our new partners will see EU membership coming forward? Moldova intends to become a member of the EU in 2019, when neighbouring Romania has the EU Presidency. Georgia leaves no doubt about its EU aspirations. And Ukraine's President Poroshenko told his EU partners in Kiev at the end of April that within five years, his country will meet all the conditions required to apply for membership. And although the Netherlands does not see this as true, the Ukrainian President knows himself supported by several EU Member States, including neighbouring Poland. Can the Minister tell us how many Member States do not agree with the Dutch Government that EU membership is only a theoretical possibility for these countries? Last week I was on behalf of this Chamber in Strasbourg for the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. This gave me the opportunity to re-examine developments in the three countries, which will become our special partners if we ratify these agreements with them today. The result of these talks is that I am even more convinced that the ratification of these treaties at the moment may not be very sensible. Why? The far-reaching cooperation with Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine is, according to the Minister in his reply, aimed at deepening political cooperation and the gradual integration of their economies into the European market. The Minister clarifies this by saying that this is a far-reaching approximation of the three countries to EU standards and standards in many areas ranging from the rule of law and human rights to market access and sustainable development. The principles underlying the association agreements include respect for democratic principles, fundamental human rights, fundamental freedoms and the principles of the rule of law. They must, according to the Minister's statement, serve as the starting point for the parties' domestic and foreign policies and lead the agreement. He also referred to market economy and respect for the principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity as guiding principles. That is what my group thinks, and a good basis for cooperation. However, my question to the Minister is: what is the situation in the three partner countries? In Strasbourg this week, I heard that a large number of members of the previous government are currently being prosecuted in Georgia and that a considerable number of former rulers are even in prison.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-9.u10	Mr Kox said that the Group of the Party of European Socialists did not consider it advisable at the moment to sign the treaties. Does he think there can be a moment in the future that can be signed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-9.u11	Yeah, I don't see why not. Association agreements are concluded with countries with which you want to associate yourself. The Netherlands is not an island, as your party sometimes seems to think, so we would like to associate ourselves with like-minded countries, but the conditions must be sufficient. If there aren't, you shouldn't associate. But if they are there, you shouldn't distance yourself from them on the basis of some kind of principle of "we don't do business across the border."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-9.u12	So I can conclude that you are not against EU enlargement. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-9.u13	No, you'll have to do your homework again. You can sign an association agreement with the EU, but it is not automatic that this leads to EU membership. The idea of becoming a member of the EU with the conclusion of an association agreement is clear to the Minister and so is my party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-9.u14	Mrs Faber, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-9.u15	The question is whether, if you sign an association agreement, you can't get EU membership. But the Minister is probably going to clarify this later. So that's not where we need it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-9.u16	As you will certainly have heard, I have just asked the Minister. We say that this does not lead to EU membership, but when you come to those countries, you hear that they say something completely different. When I spoke to President Poroshenko a while back, he said: of course we are joining the EU. Then I said, "Of course, but our minister says that it doesn't happen, of course." Poroshenko can't do that. He is convinced that he has important allies, for example in Poland, but also in the European Parliament, who will support him in that membership. In these three association countries, the Treaty is indeed seen as a portal. It's not, but between what it isn't and what people believe it is, there's often a big difference. The Minister will certainly give us an answer. In Strasbourg this week, I heard that a large number of members of the previous government are currently being prosecuted in Georgia and that a considerable number of former rulers are even in prison. The Georgian opposition is disdainful. Former President Saakashvili has been put on the must-wanted list. How does all this comply with the principles of the rule of law? I also heard that it is particularly super-rich oligarchs who are now, like the previous President, particularly pulling the strings of the state and the economy. Did the minister know about that? In Strasbourg, I was also told that Moldova is once again in a deep crisis, after a colossal banking scandal leaked earlier this year, which has made the poorest country of Europe one billion poorer again and which calls the names of influential figures. Corruption is plaguing Moldovan society and seems virtually uncomfortable, especially by the governments we have seen in recent years. The Prime Minister, yet another in a row, resigned a few days ago. According to an opinion poll, a majority of the Moldovan people are no longer enthusiastic about the association agreement. The pro-European parties mentioned by the Minister have lost the parliamentary elections and are now being held only by the Communist Party, which is itself opposed to the association agreement. During the last elections, a party that is completely opposed to the Association Agreement, the largest in the country and another promising party that opposes it, was withdrawn from the electoral list two days before the ballot box, to the surprise of the observers from the Council of Europe and the OSCE. The Minister knows all of this, but does he see any reason to stick to the ratification process? Where does he see progress in Moldova in terms of the principles he has appointed? In Strasbourg, the bloody conflict in Ukraine once again dominated the agenda of the Parliamentary Assembly. More than 6,000 deaths, including almost 200 Dutch citizens who were in the MH17, are still many more injured and hundreds of thousands of refugees are the result of this civil war, in which the Ukrainian army and heavily armed insurgents attack each other and especially the civilian population. The rebels seem to be involving part of their weapons from Russia, and according to the Ukrainian government, thousands of Russian soldiers are fighting with them on the side of the rebels, which are, by the way, constantly called "terrorists" because they refuse to recognise Kiev's authority. That's remarkable, because the Maidan rebellion had about the same background: insurgents who didn't recognize authority. The Ukrainian army in turn uses U.S. military advisors. The House of Representatives in America, by a large majority, urges President Obama to provide heavy weapons systems, so to speak, in defence of Russian aggression. The Ukrainian army also cooperates with right-wing extremist combat groups, who call themselves inspired by Adolf Hitler and his Ukrainian collaborators in the Second World War, who are openly on the market and who are allowed by nothing and no one to hinder their terror, especially in the east of the country, but not only there. The Minsk II Treaty obliges both warring parties to a ceasefire, but it is being violated on the assembly line, by both parties, as the OSCE recently reported. At the end of May Amnesty International reported that in Ukraine horrific torture methods are being used by both parties and that executions are being carried out almost every day. The Minister is aware of that report, of course. How does it assess the progress made in Ukraine in terms of the desired democratisation, the functioning of the rule of law and respect for human rights? A few weeks ago, President Poroshenko signed a law which imposes a total ban on the expression of "communist views" and the display of "communist symbols" and de facto leads to the ban of the country's communist party and possibly other parties. A similar law was repealed in Moldova some time ago after the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe had expressed its negative opinion on it. How does the Minister feel about that? Does he think that sufficient progress is being made with the necessary constitutional reforms to which the country has committed itself? In mid-July, Parliament closed in Kiev for a month and a half, and if the first reading of constitutional reforms had not passed, many other reform processes would be frustrated. How does the Minister assess the reforms he has identified as necessary to make the judiciary independent from the executive? In the Ukrainian parliament, Julia Timoshenko's party accuses the president of following his predecessors by appointing his related figures in the judiciary. A special international panel of the Council of Europe has classified the legal investigation into the Maidan rebellion as totally inadequate. And the need mentioned by the Minister to put an end to endemic corruption seems to be coming very little to this day. Ukraine is doing even worse in this respect than Russia, according to Transparency International. In the meantime, Parliament has adopted a purification law which, according to the Venice Commission, has serious shortcomings. The Minister will also be aware of this. He also knows, of course, that only a few days ago, the Ukrainian Government informed the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe that parts of the European Convention on Human Rights which is binding on Ukraine will not, or to a lesser extent, apply to that country in view of the ongoing armed conflict. Can we really say that it is moving in the right direction with the rule of law Ukraine, or is that, above all, wishful thinking?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-9.u17	We share Mr Kox's commitment to greater respect for human rights, freedom and democracy in Ukraine, but do he think that the failure to conclude the Association Agreement between the European Union and its Member States and Ukraine would better bring those European values closer to the conclusion of this agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-9.u18	No, I'm not convinced of that either, I dare say. I have just said it to Mrs Faber. The conclusion of association agreements on the basis of the values and principles indicated by the Minister is, in my view, extremely good if you can achieve that. So it is not a question of whether we should associate ourselves with those countries, but of whether this is the time to do so. Are the conditions now fulfilled or would it be more slow with these association agreements giving them more opportunities to move in the right direction? In fact, in the last year, after we have signed the association agreements, I do not see any movement in the right direction in any of the three countries. That should worry us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-9.u19	Do I understand, then, Mr Kox, that his concerns mainly concern the way in which the association agreement is applied and implemented rather than concluding it or not? In fact, he says that the failure to conclude the association agreement does not bring democracy, the rule of law and full alignment with the European Convention on Human Rights. We share a great deal of his concerns about the implementation of the association agreement, but I would be pleased to see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-9.u20	As I am sure Mr Schrijver knows, the connection to the European Convention on Human Rights has already been formally secured because they are all Member States of the Council of Europe. They can only do so if they endorse that human rights convention. Between formal endorsement and practical action, there is a world of difference. Between ratification and non-ratification there is also a world, namely ratification under conditions: we want to do so, but you must use that movement on your part. When we brought Romania and Bulgaria to the European Union, my group also asked whether we were not doing so too quickly. After that, we saw that it was indeed too soon, because once these countries became members, the good intentions were over. Here I would say that these countries must first show that they want to go in the right direction and can also go in the right direction. It is not only unwillingness, but it is sometimes also impossible. If they show you, we can talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-9.u21	Finally, Mr Schrijver!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-9.u22	There are no less than 500 articles in the association agreement, and I am sure Mr Kox has noticed that there is a great deal about constitutional reform, strengthening the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary. In that respect, he will be served on paper at his beck and call. Will we hear a vote by the SP in favour of this association agreement next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-9.u23	Maybe that's a difference between your current and mine. We are practical; you can put everything on paper, but it is a question of whether it is actually being implemented in practice. I said that there were two weeks before the summer, before they had to approve the first reading of the constitutional reform in Ukraine. If this does not happen, everything will fall apart and the association agreement will not get very much out of it either. Minsk II will then actually fall apart, because the chances of local elections being held will also be extremely low. I am therefore helping Mr Schrijver hope, but not everything that is put on paper in Ukraine is going to happen. I went to look a number of times, but there's no one in Ukraine who says it's happening because it's on paper. It's on paper, so it's a long way from happening. First the practice, that's the most important teacher. At least, I've always learned that in my simplicity. I would like it if we could reach the moment with these three partner countries when we can say on both sides that we can associate ourselves to our honour and conscience, because now we can realize what both sides want. If it's not feasible, I don't think we should do it, especially in foreign policy. If you're in danger, you don't have to catch up, you don't have to make treaties. It's just an opinion. My group considers it very important that the former Soviet republics be given the opportunity to develop independently. This means that Russia must not treat them as if their sovereignty were limited by Russian interests. But it also means that the European Union must operate with great caution in this part of our continent. My group is convinced that this has not happened and that has been rushed to conclude these association agreements. With more tact, much more could have been achieved. I've heard that from a lot of people who are involved in this. This was done in private, because it cannot be said in public. However, everyone knows that the European Union also skated skating when we wanted to rush into this association agreement. It is only after the signing of the association agreements that the EU entered into negotiations with Russia on the possible negative effects of the agreements on Russia. Can we conclude here, at least with today's knowledge, that once again it has been proven that haste is rarely good in international politics? I have had the privilege of visiting all partner countries, and I maintain contacts with representatives of the various political camps in these countries, excluding right-wing extremists. I always remind them of their own responsibility for the future of their country, but I cannot help saying that we also have a certain responsibility. That is precisely why my group is saying here: before you begin. Can the Minister, therefore, indicate the consequences of postponing the decision on ratification of the association agreements? Does something like this lead to irreparable damage or does it perhaps create room for us to do what was overlooked earlier: to conclude treaties that are good for the partners, to be good for us, and not to be perceived in Russia as a direct impairment of its position in Europe? Of course, we can persist in an approach that says we have no message to the Russians and decide what we do with others. That's possible, but we don't think it's wise. And it is precisely in these dangerous times, when much is shifting in Europe, that wisdom seems to us to be the main virtue. Above all, we think it is important that we should be guided by what is really good for the people of Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine. They have been given too little and suffered too much for too long. My group therefore looks forward with great interest to the Minister's answers and the reactions of the political groups and will determine its voting behaviour at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-9.u24	Mr. Chairman. I also congratulate the two Members of the Chamber who have been allowed to make their maiden speech. It is not a maiden speech for me, but I am very pleased to be able to stand here after so much time, and on such a European subject. In these three association agreements, the keywords are political association and economic integration. It is clear that this goes far beyond a good and peaceful relationship with neighbouring countries. It means seeking to integrate the three countries into the economic system of the single European market and it means politically linking the three countries to the values and values of the European Union. This needs to take shape over time in adapting the laws of the three countries in the economic and also political, ethical and moral fields to the principles that apply in the EU. This is undoubtedly the pull of the three countries into the European sphere of influence. That is possible, because there is support for this in the European Union, because it is good to have similar neighbours. There is also, and even a great deal of support for this in the countries concerned, but perhaps less so in Moldova. Support, of course, for the desire to become more and more like Europe in prosperity and democracy. That is a compliment to Europe: we have all kinds of problems but we are still envyed by most of our neighbours for our freedom and prosperity. But that also means that in all three countries there is a keen desire among many inhabitants to become a true member of the EU in the long term, but preferably as soon as possible. And there is a problem, because our government has been calling for a long time that of course there can be no question of that. It is right and understandable that the Union still has a great deal of difficulty in forcing Romania, Bulgaria and also Greece into good, reliable and honest governance and that the Union cannot, therefore, have any more immature members. Perhaps, as Mr Knapen said, the EU can hardly afford to join, although I believe that this should be dependent on the possibility of creating a sensible two-speed situation within the EU. But it cannot be denied, despite these reservations, that it is good to be very clear that, according to the Treaties, European countries have the right to participate in the Union when they qualify for it. These are clearly European countries, Ukraine and Moldova. Georgia does not belong to the Middle East, that is clear, so what else should it belong to than to Europe? Would the government state clearly that, for the time being, these three countries really do not, but in the long run certainly have the right of principle to join the Union? Even if that is a long-term perspective, which is probably a fundamental starting point for these countries themselves, it could also help us to become more committed to the Central European Member States. I would like to have a very clear statement from the Minister on this point of principle. So far beautiful, even though you do not see so much of that in practice in these three countries, Mr Kox has made that clear. Besides that beautiful, there's another side. The three countries are seen by Russia as very near abroad, which should preferably remain in the Russian sphere of influence. This idea is also borne by parts of the population in Ukraine and Moldova, in Georgia, in the rest of Georgia, probably hardly. But this is a big problem. One might wonder whether this problem has not become so great because the West, the EU and the Netherlands, have always adopted an exclusively legalistic attitude in a number of conflicts that have arisen and which are now regarded as "frozen conflicts." Where nation state and nation do not coincide completely, conflicts arise very easily, as Western Europe shows. In Western Europe too, this must be handled flexibly in order to ensure that it ends well. The separate territory of Moldova, the Republic of Transnistria, ended up within the borders of the Soviet Republic of Moldova by a Soviet set-up from 1924 and then in the current Republic of Moldova. It has never belonged to the Principality of Moldova and lives there, except in some villages, few Moldovans, but especially Russians and Ukrainians. Then why should such a conflict not lead to a peaceful separation? Is sticking to a formal Soviet border the right approach? About the same goes for South Ossetia and, a bit more nuanced, also for Abkhazia. The legalistic position of the Western powers is likely to greatly determine the impossibility of finding a solution to the frozen conflicts. It determines the relationship with Russia. With regard to Ukraine, where there is not a frozen but a hot conflict, the differences between Western and Eastern Ukraine, and even between Western and Central Ukraine, are so great that the long-standing position of a unified state of Ukraine is and was foolish. A clear, constitutionally guaranteed and far-reaching federalisation is important not only for the Russians but also for the internal relations in Ukraine. And there is too much unwillingness, or at least slowness. Perhaps precisely because such a genuine federalisation could also lead to Ukraine abandoning its commitment to membership of the EU. The choice could then eventually become between no EU member or break up. I will not say anything about Crimea, because of course what has happened there is far from right, but I do think that the referendum that has been held gives a correct picture of the relations there. I am in favour of the association agreements, because I believe that the three countries have the right to make this choice for Europe. Europe must therefore welcome these European countries, and I have been clear about this. But I also believe that where conflicts arise due to ethnic contradictions, so that parts of these countries choose a different side, those ethnic loyalties should also be addressed wherever possible, including, where appropriate, the breaking of the formal and often accidental or even manipulative boundaries. In the discussions on these cases, the West plays a role, and therefore the Netherlands also plays an indirect role in this. If that role could be more creative and could contribute to real solutions with a greater sense of the situation in the field, then these association agreements might create less resistance in the East, and thus perhaps be better secured in the long term. I'd like to ask the Minister how he feels about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-9.u25	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by congratulating Mr Knapen and Mr Oomen-Ruijten on their maiden speech and to welcome them to our midst, as well as, of course, a renewed welcome to Mr Ten Hoeve. Let me say something: my group supports the proposals before us to ratify the association agreements with the countries which form part of the Eastern Partnership, at least with these three association countries. We support the neighbourhood policy and welcome its new approach, but consider the association agreements as instruments that can contribute much more to the necessary reforms in these countries towards greater democracy and the rule of law, but also more prosperity and stability. The fact that we are now debating these draft approval laws has, of course, everything to do with the current conflict between Ukraine and Russia, which is putting great pressure on stability and the planned reforms. Some groups, we have just heard from Mr Kox, also wonder whether this is the right time to ratify such an agreement. We think so, because they have been established on the basis of approval by a majority of the population. If this cooperation is stopped or ratification postponed, it might even send the wrong signal, namely that it is possible to influence the course of a country or even the European Union by intimidation and violence. Of course, it is of the utmost importance that the EU pursue an effective strategy towards Russia. However, the question is justified as to whether and how the envisaged and agreed reforms can be implemented in the current circumstances and what the EU's strategy is to make an optimal contribution to this. We have heard it from several speakers here. Ben Knapen pointed out the particular circumstance that the conflict situation may provoke a certain behaviour, which is precisely not the aim of the association agreements. Mr Schrijver and Mr Ten Hoeve referred to the frozen conflicts, i.e. occupied territories, which also lead to special circumstances. Mr Kox referred to numerous human rights violations that are still taking place in the three countries. It is therefore a matter of special circumstances. I agree with the questions about the EU's specific strategy to support the countries in carrying out the reforms in these circumstances, but also sometimes to put appropriate pressure on them to stop or prevent human rights violations, for example. We believe that there should be a multi-track policy not only with regard to Russia but also with regard to these association countries. My group also believes that the implementation of the neighbourhood policy should seek sufficient cooperation with other actors in those countries: civil society organisations, opposition parties and minority groups. This cooperation offers the much-needed counterweight to the interests of a incumbent government and to a tendency to nepotism and corruption, and it promotes the strengthening of a civil society that needs to be transformed into a rule of law. To what extent does this happen in these countries, I ask the Minister. Furthermore, the documents talk about strengthening and protecting fundamental rights on many points, but I do not read much about the right to protection of refugees or the protection and strengthening of the position of migrants and stateless persons. In times of conflict for which people flee or are displaced, safeguards are crucial in these areas. Cooperation between the Union and these countries, including through readmission and readmission agreements, may also result in refugees from eastern countries being stuck in these transit countries, as it were, because the borders to the European Union will be better monitored, both by the EU and by association countries. This makes it even more important that access to asylum and the rights of refugees and migrants are guaranteed in those association countries. Does the Minister agree with my group? If so, what concrete agreements have been reached and what support does the European Union offer to these countries in this respect? Is this also addressed in monitoring reforms?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-9.u26	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? I note that this is not the case. I shall suspend the debate and suspend the sitting for a single minute pending the Secretary of State for Security and Justice. I see on my papers he's due at 4:15 p.m. Maybe he'll get there a little sooner. We will continue at 4.15 p.m. at the latest, but be sure to keep an eye on the bell in case it arrives. According to my schedule, we will then proceed at around 5 p.m. and at the latest at 5.10 p.m. From 4.15 p.m. to 5.10 p.m., the response of the government and the reply and rejoinder on the treaty with Norway is. Then, about 5:10 p.m., we proceed with the association agreements.
