ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u1	Mr. Chairman. We have talked about the novelle of the new law for housing corporations. We have discussed a part of it, namely the Housing Authority, extensively with the Minister. I have a motion on this, which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Authority should be able to operate both independently and independently;]] [[whereas the Minister wishes to place the authority at the ILT because of its independence and economies of scale for the organisation, but does not take the authority's independence for granted;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure the independence of the Authority housing corporations within the ILT, and to ensure, both in the organisational structure and in practice, that the independent implementation of the Authority's supervisory responsibilities cannot be prevented by the ILT's administrative line,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Van Vliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29453-379]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u2	Mr President, this motion has been co-signed by my colleague Mr Van Vliet, from the independent Van Vliet group, who unfortunately cannot be here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u3	I find her pure poetry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u4	I would like to say that last week we had a debate on mergers, after which we voted against a motion by colleagues Monasch and Karabulut to stop a merger. We fully agreed with them in substance, but we felt that there should be an independent supervisor. That is why we did not support this motion at the time. The Minister nods and understands that, but I do hope that we can move forward quickly with a strong, powerful supervisor. Then we can ensure that in the future we have an organisation that can monitor the situation created by the new law properly and according to the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u5	One brief question from Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u6	I heard Mr Verhoeven say very cool on TV this morning that there is 10 billion on the shelf for housing corporations to reduce rents and for new construction. Where is Mr Verhoeven's initiative to express this, which I do not think is true, directly in a specific proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u7	I would have liked to have done it today, but at the request of the VVD and the Labour Party, the Chamber decided by majority to postpone the debate on it and to hold a third term after May. Those two parties have a majority. I support the proposal and I would like to get on with it as soon as possible, but I do not think it is appropriate to make a proposal suddenly in a debate on a housing corporation supervisor about giving money back to tenants and about the EUR 10 billion that is on the shelf for corporations. However, Mrs Karabulut does not have to worry, because that proposal will of course be presented. But we must first have clarity about the amount that the housing corporations have or do not have available. We have asked for this and we will ask the Minister for it. And if Mrs Karabulut likes it, I can also put a question to the Minister in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u8	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u9	Fine, thank you. So much for Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u10	No, because I have another question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u11	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u12	Because it is quite right that Mrs Karabulut should ask this. We will soon have a factual questioning round, initiated by myself, and then that third term. I would like to hear from the Minister at this point what scope he thinks the corporations have to actually do something about the waiting lists and actually explore the possibilities of going through rent reduction for the lower income groups. 'Cause that's where we're gonna have to go eventually. He has not yet made a single political statement on this, but only sent two letters with some figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u13	Mr. Chairman. Apparently, it is quite common for my colleague to say that there is 10 billion on the table, while he says this afternoon, after being in the media, that there is still a need for clarity. I think that the next motion can count on the support of the coalition and the tolerated parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u14	Mr President, I am being addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u15	Mr Verhoeven, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u16	Mr President, you can look so tired, and I understand very well that you want to go on. I will not make it too long, but if I am addressed, I can just respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u17	Go ahead. Short, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u18	Thank you. Very nice. Mrs Karabulut knows very well, and the rest of the Chamber also knows that there are two letters from the Minister for Housing, which state that the financial position of housing corporations has improved by EUR 9.5 billion. The corporations keep denying that. They keep saying that they have no options, so we would like to have clarity about the availability of that money. So it's not that weird, Mrs. Karabulut, and you know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u19	Mr Verhoeven simply calls in the media that corporations have 10 billion on the table. Mr Verhoeven, what do you think this does to the tenants? What do you think this does to corporate directors who have to pay a landlord's tax because of your plans? You can laugh about it, but I think it's pretty serious. Mr President, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the housing agreement, the parties agreed with housing corporations on the landlord levy of EUR 1.7 billion and income-dependent rent increases;]] [[Whereas there are doubts as to whether housing corporations are making best use of available financial space to improve social housing;]] [[Whereas tenants find it difficult to pay the rent;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that available financial space for housing corporations is used wherever possible for not increasing the rent or rent reduction, building new social housing, renovation and energy saving measures in existing homes, and to inform the Chamber as soon as possible about the possibilities for this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29453-380]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u20	I have a question for you to clarify. Mrs Karabulut, did we not table a motion of exactly the same magnitude together a month ago, which was also adopted? In it was a call to the corporations to reduce their rents. What's the difference between that motion and this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u21	We have tabled a motion to reduce the rents if the tenants are dealing with income losses. The Minister is doing a little "spastically" perhaps that is not the appropriate word for it, or rather difficult to implement it. Mr Monasch, I am counting on your support for the motion I have just tabled, because it has to do with your claims and those of Mr Verhoeven, every time, that corporations would all be full of money, but nevertheless refuse to build and reduce rents. Let us be clear about that. Since Mr Verhoeven called in the media this morning that there is 10 billion on the shelf of corporations to rebuild and reduce rents, I would like to hear from the Minister whether that is true or not. My last question is about the supervisor. When, after weeks of waiting, we received a letter on the financial position of corporations, I wondered whether the supervisor should ask the Minister to give us that kind of information in the new situation. Did this go through the Secretary of State? If we have any additional questions, can we ask the supervisor directly in the future, given the fact that we all say that we are committed to independence?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u22	Mr Monasch of the PvdA waived a second term and thus ended the term of office. Since the Minister has not yet received the second motion, I shall suspend for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u23	Mr. Chairman. Two motions have been tabled and a number of questions put. First of all, I refer to the Verhoeven/Van Vliet motion on part No. 379. It calls on the Government to "ensure the independence of the Authority housing corporations within the ILT, and to ensure, both in the organisational structure and in practice, that the independent implementation of the Authority's supervisory responsibilities cannot be prevented by the ILT's administrative line'. I have indicated to the Chamber that the authority will have a clear, independent external view, will complete its own supervisory vision and will have its own director. This is really different from that for the other directors within the ILT... has direct access to the Minister. If there were any concerns about the functioning of the authority, this direct access would, of course, be a very important guarantee. Against the background of this construction, I believe I can comply with this motion. That is why I consider her to be a supporter of policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u24	It is therefore up to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u25	Yes. Mr Verhoeven asked me what kind of space corporations have to deal with waiting lists in my own words and/or apply a rent reduction for low incomes. I understand that there are still written questions coming to me about the letter that has been sent. But I will give an initial outline of the questions that have just been asked. The Sectoral picture of the Central Fund indicates that the continuation of the rental policy creates an equity of 9.5 billion above the 25% limit. For me, when those figures first came out, that was the reason to say that the gloomy picture outlined in the housing agreement, fortunately, does not come out and so there is room for investment. On the basis of such a macro image, you can only say that there is apparently macro space to invest. A euro can only be spent once. A corporation that opts for addition because of the waiting list demand will therefore have no or less room for rent reduction. This is typical customization that needs to be delivered locally. That is why I have agreed with the Chamber and the VNG that I will ensure that there is an assessment tool for municipalities to assess how much space there is. Because in municipalities these agreements are made, also on topics such as additions and rental space. How that space is filled out must really be the result of local arrangements. I find it unwise to try to point out nationally whether Roermond or Zoetermeer is the most in need of addition or limited rent increase, or whether there is room for sale. However, we need to provide the tools that enable the municipalities to fill in this and have the right information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u26	Before a wrong picture is sketched again: is it true that in the information we received from the Minister in the new letter, the forecast is revised downwards because of low inflation and lower rent income? And is it true that the 9.5 billion is part of a high appreciation of property, but that this does not mean that there is 9.5 billion on the shelf, as Mr Verhoeven says, in order to build and/or lower rents?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u27	The onboard question was the next question I wanted to answer. In my reply, I indicated, as I have always done, that it is an estimate based on a continued rental policy. Such an estimate indeed contains assumptions about interest rates and inflation. So it's not money on the shelf for a number of reasons. Equity is the passive side of the balance sheet, not the active side. It is an estimate, but that estimate is very important, because it is much more positive than the estimates made at the time of publication of the housing agreement. That is good news, because it shows that the sector as a whole has room. But it depends on the individual corporation how much space there is, and it depends on the local performance agreements how that space is deployed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u28	Mrs Karabulut, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u29	I'd be delighted if I could get answers to my questions. The first question was: is it true that the estimate has now been revised, because of lower inflation and therefore less rent revenue? The second question was: is it true that 9 billion space does not mean that there is 9.5 billion liquid resources spending space?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u30	I answered both questions. I have indicated that equity is on the passive side of the balance sheet and liquid assets on the asset side. I have also indicated that it is an estimate and that it varies once your parameters such as inflation, interest rates and rents vary. However, the estimate is much more positive than the initial estimates used in the housing agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u31	Briefly, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u32	Unlike Mrs Karabulut of the SP, who is only dissatisfied with the fact that the Minister says that there is indeed more funding for housing corporations, I think it is very good to see that there is more room for investment. My question is: when does the Minister think he can provide the clarity needed to really know what is available for every housing corporation or for corporations in a particular region, for example to build more if needed? Of course, that's what it's all about in the end. It's not about which housing corporation has what amount. It's about getting tenants to see a shorter waiting list, because it's finally being built, because corporations do seem to have investment space.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u33	I want to deliver the promised instrument this summer and then the calculations can be made locally. Mr Verhoeven will agree with me that it is certainly so important for the waiting lists to keep the flow going. In the Karabulut motion in part No. 380 calls on the government "to ensure that available financial space in housing corporations is used wherever possible to avoid increasing the rent or rent reduction, building new social housing, renovation and energy saving measures in existing homes." These are all goals that I share, but typically goals that are going to form the content of those local performance agreements. By offering the instruments to the municipalities, these choices will be made there. But, as I have just said, I cannot say nationwide: the corporation in Zoetermeer must make the most of savings in the existing stock and the corporation in Kerkrade must sell a piece so that it can invest more in social rent. Here we are in the wrong place to say that, but I will give you the instruments. So if the call is addressed to me, I have to discourage the motion. If there is a call to provide municipalities with the tools, then the motion is support of policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u34	The latter is the case. What I particularly want with this motion is to clear up the room that would be there and to ensure that it is used to the maximum. Of course, this is done by means of performance agreements, municipalities and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u35	If it is along the line of informing the municipalities, which can then fill that in locally, then the motion is support of policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u36	And so judge Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u37	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u38	Then it would be nice if the Minister could give us further information on this before we have the AO after the May recess. Here we come to the details.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u39	I can't do that, because I have indicated that I can deliver the accounting rules that a municipality can use to determine that only this summer, because that is still a complicated battle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u40	We are going to debate this in detail in a third period of an AA. Nevertheless, in order to avoid a misunderstanding, I would like to keep two things apart: the passive side, the strengthening of the capital position of housing corporations on the one hand and the money that comes in the drawer, in the wallet, that you can just spend and not have to borrow on the other. Yesterday, in his letter to the Chamber, the Minister wrote, and I would like to hear confirmation of this: rental revenue 2012: 13.2 billion, projected rent income with a lower rent structure than agreed in the housing agreement: 17 billion. This is an increase of over 4 billion, projected by the CFV on the basis of the information provided by the corporations. There's a discussion whether it's in stone, but I think the Minister wrote in his letter ready-to-use: on the basis of the information that the corporations themselves have provided to the CFV, there's more than 4 billion extra rent income. Is that right, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u41	I'm having a bit of a hard time with this. I don't have those letters for me right now, and I don't want to make a statement about them out of my head right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u42	There's also a separate AO coming across.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u43	That's right. I can imagine Mrs Karabalut holding her motion until then. Then I've got all the numbers in front of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u44	Fine, but for anyone listening, I refer to the letter sent to the Chamber yesterday. There is a table in which exactly the figures I have quoted are in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u45	We're all gonna look that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u46	It is quite essential for the debate, Mr President, so it is a good thing that it is noted here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u47	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u48	I would like to make a comment on my motion. I think it would be very good to put that motion to the vote. For the sake of clarity, I would like to say to the Minister that I do not expect any instrumental effect on implementation. What I would like to know is how much investment space there is for each region, in so far as the Minister has these figures. I would like to draw up the figures which the Minister sent us yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u49	I don't have that information. That also makes this motion difficult. If Mrs Karabulut means that I provide information to the municipalities, then I can comply with that. If she means anything else, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion. Mrs Karabulut also asked how the home authority will provide information in the future. The home authority may publish independently on its own website. The Chamber may invite the Director to a hearing. If there are letters, they go through the Minister. I've already indicated that I won't scratch it or stripe it. This kind of information can be obtained directly via the website or in a letter via me. I won't make any changes to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u50	This question occurred to me because we received the information requested in the supervisory letter through the Minister only two months later. I can't imagine that the supervisor didn't have that information before. It went through the Minister. Does this mean that after 1 July, when we have the independent regulator remotely and with teeth, these letters come directly to the Chamber and that we as a Chamber can then directly request information from that supervisor without the minister and/or his officials sitting in between?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u51	The letter contained a new calculation, so it makes sense that that is what was calculated. If a letter is asked, it goes through the minister. I can't help that either; every inspection does. I've already indicated that I'm not gonna cross that line. Mrs Karabulut can ask for the information she wants and she gets it. She's noticed that now. The authority will be able to publish itself through the website.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-29-tweedekamer-13.u52	Thank you very much. Thank you for coming, Minister. We shall vote on both motions tomorrow.
