ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u1	We have arrived at the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u2	Madam President. Firstly, I congratulate Mr Köhler on his maiden speech, because I have not yet had the opportunity to do so. Last Tuesday, the Secretary of State for Finance gave a detailed answer to the questions from this Chamber in the first place. Afterwards, the House of Representatives approved the novelle on the tax package. In this second period, I would like to confine myself to four issues: the need for tax reform and the gap between one and two earners, the cabinet's box 3 plan and the emigration tax, the novelle and the elderly discount and the implementation of the Parent-Subsidiary Directive. Last week, the Secretary of State said: "Great reforms will never succeed at once. If you don't start it, it'll never work, and if you do, you just have to hang in there for a while." He also said: "My appeal to the Chamber is about the same as the call she makes to me: let us continue, if necessary step by step." Those are fine words, just before Christmas. The Scientific Institute for the CDA has clear plans for the further steps. In this context, I should like to refer to the recent publication The importance of a new tax plan, subtitled Reviews on the reform of the tax system. We welcome the statement by the Secretary of State that the limits on the use of income-dependent, targeted tax instruments have been reached. I indicated on behalf of the CDA Group in the first time that the end of the use of the targeted fiscal instruments is definitely in sight. However, I wonder how realistic it is for the Rutte II cabinet to come forward with far-reaching proposals in the limited time it has been given, i.e. up to 13 months. How does the Secretary of State see that? The praise given to Mr Schalk of the SGP by the Secretary of State last week is very positive: 'As far as I am concerned, Mr Schalk has, of course, touched on the substance of the subject'. This is about the growing gap in disposable income between one earner and two earners, whether or not with children. The Schalk motion was adopted by a majority during the General Financial Reviews in this Chamber. The CDA Group supported that motion for a resolution. Last week, too, I drew attention to this in the first period. We have done a hand-out ourselves, which the Secretary of State has not specifically addressed. Would the Secretary of State be open to accelerating the reduction of the general tax rebate for the non-earning partner less than proposed in the Dijkgraaf/Omtzigt amendment, so that the negative employment effects under the MICSIM model will also be marginal? Or does he say, "That's an impassable route for me?" If that were the case, I do not yet see how we should place his encouraging words on constructive dialogue. Can he become more concrete in how he sees this in his mind when he comes to the 2017 Tax Plan? Indeed, the members of the CDA Group are not surprised, but deeply disappointed by the response of the Secretary of State for Finance on the decoupling of the box 3 plan and the tax package advocated by the CDA Group and others 2016. We will not waste any more words on it, but it is clear that we find it incomprehensible that the government parties are holding on to each other so cramped. In Dutch we know the saying "Better half turned than completely lost." That's what the East Indian cabinet is deaf to. The cabinet's box 3 plan is, in the words of the explanatory memorandum, "undisputedly more complex." We say that it will not be embraced by any taxpayer, because it is so far removed from reality and contrary to the legal history of box 3 and the legal system of the Income Tax Act 2001. It will lead to unnecessary border effects resulting in negative budgetary consequences and, last but not least, it will not help the small saver. It will continue to interpenerate on its assets when investing carefully, i.e. in deposits and bank balances. Besides, there's something weird going on. The government itself says that the box 3 plan is a temporary plan. Eventually, real returns on capital income should also be taxed in box 3. That is what the cabinet says, but how seriously is the Secretary of State going to deal with the Bashir/Van Weyenberg motion? That's a question. In that motion, the government is asked to come forward with a proposal to tax real returns, to submit to the 2017 Tax Plan. And then the taxing system for real returns should start as early as 1 January 2018. In the explanatory statement, the government itself states that only three years after the entry into force of the Wiebestaks, i.e. not earlier than 1 January 2020, "will be considered whether, to what extent, the time limit and the conditions under which a levy on actual return is possible'. An important alternative is also referred in advance to the wastebasket. I refer to Annex 1 to the explanatory memorandum of the 2016 Tax Plan. Taxing net income from assets in combination with the introduction of a capital gain tax is not a good idea for the cabinet. It would be too complicated in terms of implementation, while dozens of countries have such a system. What does the Cabinet want? The Bashir/Van Weyenberg motion urgently, but actually wipe two alternatives off the table? Then there is only one option: to introduce a power distribution system. I look forward with interest to the Secretary of State's reply. In short, it is not excluded that the cabinet's box 3 plan will apply for a long transitional period. And then I come back to my proposal that instead of the proposed box 3 plan, the existing exemption should be increased while at the same time abolishing the exemption. The Central Planning Office passed that on for us. In a particular variant, such a gradual abolition of the exemption could soon yield a few hundred million. The cabinet's plan will, in our opinion, be at least a gap in the 2017 budget and subsequent years of between 250 million and perhaps 500 million, because taxpayers above 1 million will never agree to progressive property tax. They're not gonna pay 30% over 5.5%. That's equal to 1,65%. Then, of course, they opt for a tax in box 2, whether fully taxed or not, or in the form of an exempt investment institution, even after the Great/Bashir amendment. Simple calculations show that this is more advantageous. The Secretary of State argues by saying that it is possible to switch to box 2 now, but again, that group of millionaires, consisting of more than 37,000 taxpayers, does not now, because they can live with a material capital tax of 1,2%. However, this will not be the case at 1.65%. That is an increase of 37.5%. I repeat that this group of only 1% of the total number of taxpayers in box 3 is still accounting for EUR 1 billion, 25% of the total 4 billion collected annually with box 3.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u3	I am listening with great interest to Mr Van Rij. Here's what I'm wondering. How can he be so sure that 37,000 Dutch will act with that ability in the future? The certainty he expresses in this respect also gives some legitimacy to the movement that he believes they would make. Can he say a little more about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u4	I'd like to do that. Firstly, I am talking about 37,000 taxpayers with more than 1 million who account for 1 billion. My estimate is that a quarter to half, i.e. 250 to 500 million, goes from the tax revenue from box 3 to box 2. Why? I'll give you a very simple calculation. If you have 1 million, I'm gonna ignore the exemption for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u5	The calculation is to be made; that is not really what I am concerned about. I find the thought behind the reasoning so interesting. I do not expect Mr Van Rij to know all 37,000 of them, but he knows that this is the natural step they are going to take because they are going to make this calculation, which I understand and which we can all follow, and he also knows that they will act in this way. Should the legislator anticipate a course of action which he discusses as a definite fact here? Can he explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u6	That's exactly my point. When you make a law, you also have to think about behavioral effects. That didn't happen here. It is perfectly legitimate for a taxpayer to do so, just as Mr Backer undoubtedly makes use of the mortgage interest deduction, or not. A lot of Dutch people do that anyway. If someone in box 3 pays 1.2% now, he's gonna pay 1.65%. In an alternative situation, he may pay 1% or 1.2%. Then he goes from box 3 to box 2. That's what the law allows. There's nothing weird about that. Examining behavioral effects is exactly what needs to be done, but it hasn't been done. The cabinet doesn't want to hear about that. It lives in the delusion that a brilliant plan has been made to relieve smaller savers and increase the burden of greater power.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u7	I actually have a question for Mr Backer on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u8	Will you do that when Mr Backer is speaking? Well, that's convenient, 'cause he can't answer right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u9	I'm talking about the word "legitimity" he used. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u10	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u11	I will continue my speech. Both objectives set by the Cabinet with this temporary plan to relieve smaller savers and increase the burden on larger assets will not be achieved. We do not agree with the cabinet and call on the cabinet to come to its senses directly in the new year. In order to give that process a push in the right direction, I would like to submit the next motion. The President shall: Mr Van Rij, Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Van Strien, Mr Ten Hoeve, Mr Schalk and Mr Ester proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government is aiming in the long term for a new system to tax real capital gains in box3;]] [[noting that the government has not yet drawn up such a long-term plan;]] [[Whereas the box 3 plan, as proposed by the Government, is intended only as a temporary regime, starting from 1 January 2017;]] [[whereas small savers are not sufficiently helped by this temporary regime;]] [[Whereas simpler and fairer solutions within the existing Box 3 system are possible;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a new proposal to include those alternatives to a simpler and more advantageous temporary regime for small savers by the Spring Paper at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34302-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u12	I have a question about the motion, so I understand it. Is the intention for the smaller savers to reduce the tax and for the larger assets the rate goes up?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u13	I thank Mrs Vos for this question. I explained this last week in my first term. If you increase the exemptions in the current system, it will focus on the people with small capacities up to €100,000. They will benefit directly from this, just as the exemption will increase by €3,000 in 2016. At the same time, you should abolish the exemption over a million. That's gonna cost more millionaires. They'll finance it. This also applies to the category between €100,000 and 1 million. There you could then gradually abolish the exemption. That's an idea. In the same spirit, other alternatives are conceivable. That is what this motion calls for. The members of the CDA Group are not convinced that the emigration levy is a proper measure for significant stakeholders. The proposed legislative amendment is most likely contrary to the tax treaties concluded by the Netherlands. We therefore support the proposal made by the VVD during the written procedure to extend the deadline to 20 years. Finally, members of the CDA Group also consider it disproportionate that more than 30 FTEs should be involved. The members of the CDA Group would like to respond briefly to the novelle. The novelle contains a number of minor adjustments to the 2016 Tax Plan, as on 18 November. has been accepted in the House of Representatives. As far as the childcare allowance is concerned, this would not have been necessary for the CDA group, as enough money had already gone there. The members of the CDA Group have noted with approval that 100 million has been added to the novelle for the elderly discount. Nevertheless, this is still 200 million too little to make the €222 structural even after 2017. Mr van Rooijen of 50PLUS will be tabling a motion on this subject on behalf of the CDA and 50PLUS. For the rest, the novelle contains little exciting. I would ask the Secretary of State for the Parent-Subsidiary Directive to repeat the arguments put forward by the VVD and the CDA groups on hybrid loans. The answers given so far have not been convincing or even incorrect in our opinion. Firstly, a hybrid loan is not a fiscal loan but a capital injection. Secondly, hybrid loans are not only made in an intercompany context but also between third parties. Thirdly, Germany does not implement the scheme in the same way as the Netherlands. Fourthly, the Directive expressly does not require that a situation of total or partial double taxation should be allowed. Understandably, the directive seeks to put an end to situations of double non-taxation. We therefore consider the proposed regulation in the implementing law to be contrary to the directive and will most likely not be kept under European law because of its proportionality. As far as the CDA Group is concerned, the Netherlands should not put a Dutch head on a Brussels directive. In fact, the Netherlands must defend its interests in Brussels coûte que coûte, now and later. I await with interest the Secretary of State's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u14	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Köhler on his maiden speech last week. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions to the report this evening. Article 1 of the Constitution paragraph 1 (3) on the wall in the Knight's Room I have seen it three times since I am a senator and I am always happy to look at it as follows: All who are in the territory of the Empire, whether residents or foreigners, have equal rights to protection of persons and property. Article 10 of the Tax Act 2015 reads as follows: Wage is all that is enjoyed by an employment or former employment. This text, which forms an integral part of the Income Tax Act, shows that income from an earlier employment relationship is also pay. Income from the present and the former employment is treated equally. Pension is income from a former employment and therefore also income from labour. It's deferred pay. There is therefore no legal basis for any other treatment under Article 10. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. In other words, the law does not distinguish between age and age as a border for another regime. It is not possible to treat pensions differently because they are past labour. The tax reductions for workers are much higher than those for the elderly. I explained this in detail last week on the basis of the figures in the Chambers. The total of the tax rebates is €3,300 higher for workers than for older people with an income of €20,000 and €3,700 higher for an income of €40,000. This is still excluding the income-dependent combination discount of €2,800. This makes the difference much bigger, namely more than €6,000 less tax and higher discounts. In the period 2015 to 2017, the employment discount increases by €1,100 for an income of €20,000. Older people's discount doesn't go up. The members of the 50PLUS Group point out the differences between these two groups, the workers and the non-workers, in the various discounts. Let me repeat this very briefly. The general tax discount is €1,100 higher for workers than for the elderly. The employment discount is €2,200 to €3,000 higher than the old-age discount. The reduction in working hours is much lower for older workers than for younger workers. The employment discount is limited to a high income of €120,000, with a gradual phasing-out. The elderly discount is limited to an income of €35,000 and then stops immediately. With €1 more you lose €1,000. A marginal rate that is not yet known in North Korea. The general tax rebate is the continuation of the duty-free rate, in which no distinction was made at the time in terms of age. I am now talking about the period for the year 2000. The employment discount is the continuation of the so-called, famous and well-known labour cost gap. I remember that very well, because I raised it from 600 guilders to 1,000 guilders. I think that was 1974. There, too, no distinction was made by age in the acquisition costs of wages. The 50PLUS Group has asked for justification for these differences, namely the much higher tax reductions for workers, but the answers given have not convinced us at all. Can't the Secretary of State go into that again? On the contrary, the answers given over and over again are based on the same reasoning. The answer in the first period was that today's workers are the elderly of the future. I said last week: today's older people are the workers of that time. Those are actually two open doors. Other arguments are now being put forward than last week to give the benefits to the workers and not to the elderly. At the core, they all mean that workers need to be facilitated throughout their lives in order to build up prosperity, their prosperity. Workers work and build prosperity, the Secretary of State said. And a higher employment discount leads to more jobs in the models. I am not going to repeat the arguments that have been used and which I have already criticized in the first term. Income tax should not be reduced to a job machine, at least on paper, because in reality that tax is a revenue machine for the State. However, I would like once again to mention the State Secretary's new argument that the tax rebates for workers must be much higher than those for workers, apparently because AOWers do not pay an AOW premium. I would point out again that the AOW is an old-age insurance scheme and the AOW premium is not a tax. If we look only at the taxation of the workers, without the AOW premium, then the elderly pay far more taxes than the taxes paid by the workers without the AOW premium. I refer to Table 11 of the note. There's the cliff-and-ready. Older people also pay 5.5% income-dependent care contributions that the workers do not pay. And the care premium that the employer has been paying for the employees since 2013 has been unpaid since then. In the answer in the first term, the Secretary of State goes one step further in his defence. Older people historically had a number of fiscal and other advantages. At some point, it has been decided to reduce or reduce these benefits. The Secretary of State says they didn't disappear. Then you see a reduced purchasing power development, according to the Secretary of State, with a still favourable final balance. It is not, therefore, a disadvantage to the elderly but an equalisation. The position of preference has been called into question, but no disadvantage has been created, according to the Secretary of State. I always like to quote him as literally as possible. However, according to the 50PLUS Group, the rights of older people are being taken away and, in any case, limited and increasingly large financial rights are being created for workers. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Last week, the ruler also referred to the report De sociale staat van Nederland 2015 of the Social Cultural Planning Bureau, which just appeared. I couldn't have read it yet. The report states that pensioners have had a 3% increase in purchasing power over the period 2004 to 2013. This is higher than the average rate of increase in purchasing power for all, i.e. 1%, while there were all kinds of mins for all kinds of groups. I would like to point out once again that Table 7 of the reply shows that between 2010 and 2016 the elderly lost 7% to 12%. It is a good thing that the Secretary of State came up with a purchasing power review this evening for the period 2004 to 2016, which we had asked for earlier. So far, the Secretary of State only gave the figures from 2010. The figures over a much longer period show a decrease in purchasing power for people with AOW and €10,000 supplementary pension. I am now quoting from this evening's response, from Table 2 on cumulative purchasing power for example households in the period 2004-2016. For a single person who has a €10,000 supplementary pension, the decrease in purchasing power is 4.5%. So that's not plus 3%, but minus 4.5%. For a couple with an additional pension of €10,000 in addition to the AOW, there is also a decrease in purchasing power, albeit less, of 1.5%. Referring to the SCP report, last week the Secretary of State mentioned the percentage of plus 3%, but that is a very different figure. I hope that the Secretary of State can explain why he gave that figure last week, when he is now giving a completely different figure. Because instead of an average of plus 3%, you could say that it is an average of minus 3%. I would like to point out that, if there is an increase, people with only AOW are indeed making some progress because of the indexation, of course there are always the costs of the rents, the own risk, the care premium and so on, the real household booklet. I maintain my position previously confirmed by the Secretary of State that there is a major purchasing power decline from 2010. It now appears to be there from 2004, as I actually assumed, but not yet. The Secretary of State appreciated the new method I use: what does it mean for one group and the other in millions rather than in purchasing power? Let me now turn to the proportional share, structural, and to what we have not received and have received, the one-off. 100% of the structural proportional part requested in the Nagel motion came to nothing. There's only been a repair. There's no more taking what was taken first. The structural burden increase of 500 million continues. This one-off 900 million for 2016 is a good thing, but it is not important for us in the structural assessment of the Tax Plan at all. It concerns the structurally proportional part, as indicated in the Nagel motion, which has been accepted here. It is also a question of comparing workers and older people on the basis of three criteria. The first is structural versus one-off. The second is to look at three years instead of one year; one year back and one year ahead, so in this case to 2015, 2016 and 2017. Furthermore, it concerns the sum of tax (through the Tax Plan) and non-fiscal charges, such as the increase in the income-dependent care premium by 0.65%, which gives the elderly almost 300 million structural burdens. That is not in the Tax Plan, but of course we do count on that, because we have a broad view. For the workers from 2016, we see an exclusive structural tax reduction of over 4 billion and this is 0 for the elderly. Let me now turn to my questions on the principle of carrying capacity and the legality of the proposals. The principle of carrying capacity is based on an equal tax on equal income and a higher tax as income is higher. In reply to our question, the Secretary of State stated that the principle of carrying capacity is an important pillar, in addition to the principle of equality and the principle of prosperity. In response to Mr van Rij's urgent question, he confirmed that the limits of income-related targeted policies have been reached. Mr Van Rij spoke about this again this evening. In the first instance, I have shown that, in our opinion, the current proposals are contrary to the principle of carrying capacity and lead to an even greater deterioration of that principle than was already the case. This is also the case with the different treatment of single and double-earners, referring to the Schalk motion. I can come to no conclusion other than that these proposals are contrary to the principle of carrying capacity and to the principle of equality, as we see it. The Secretary of State forgot to answer my question about the principle of carrying capacity. We are now expressly asking him to deal with this. Fortunately, he declared at the end that he was prepared to see the principle of carrying capacity as the zero point of the Tax Plan. I hope that his last words this evening will also send a positive signal to this debate. Then I'll come to legality. In the first term, I stated that the principle of equal treatment is the test of the legality of proposals. I asked whether these proposals were justified and asked for an answer, but that did not come at the time. I now lack the time to go into it further, but it has to be the ruler after 200 questions. He had counted them and 62 pages answered it clearly that I expressed reasonable doubts on the basis of those answers in the first period. His written answers and his first period have raised the question of whether the proposals can pass the test of legality. The right to property may also be called into question. This may lead to proceedings before the Dutch courts and subsequently at the European Court in Luxembourg or Strasbourg. Please respond. The 50PLUS Group sees it as its responsibility, after careful consideration of the Tax Plan. That is: it is discrimination according to age. The question arises to what extent the proposals are lawful. Can the Secretary of State still give his views on this? We think it's a punishment for getting old. The ruler has given his former colleague, Secretary of State, yours truly, another vote advice. He says that I know like no other that it's about compromise and that you can't pull everything in. My problem with this Tax Plan is that this is a very bad structural proposal for the elderly, on top of last year's disastrous tax plan. That can only be repaired structurally and that has not happened. For the workers, the ruler can make major compromises and spend 300 million in structural funds, as I noted in the latest compromise, with the letter and the novel. The municipal coal letter of 8 December shows that, at the request of the D66 Senate Group, the cabinet continues unsatisfyingly on this unrighteous and unrighteous road. This letter announces a preliminary draft for extending the tax area accompanied by a reduction in taxation on labour. This would lead to an increase in the employment discount of around €1,300. In my group's view, this is again contrary to the principle of carrying capacity and not legitimate. Our group supports the criticism of the box 3 proposals and will support the Van Rij motion, which calls for further improvement from 2017 for the small saver, including many older people. In order to prevent purchasing power from falling further by half a percent for income to €40,000 in 2017, as shown in Table 4, which we were allowed to receive tonight, I will table a motion together with my colleague Van Rij to maintain the elderly discount structurally at the level of 2016. The President shall: Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Van Rij, Mr Van Strien, Mr Ester, Mr Köhler and Mr Ten Hoeve proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government will increase the elderly discount by €222 from 2016 onwards, but that this increase in the elderly discount will be halved from 2017 onwards;]] [[Whereas in recent years the elderly have suffered a severe loss of purchasing power;]] [[whereas more than 10% of taxpayers are now unable to make use of the income-dependent combination discount (IACK);]] [[Whereas more than 5% of workers are now unable to make use of the income-dependent reduction (AK);]] [[Whereas the reduction of the IACK and the AK can provide the necessary EUR 170 million to cover the structural increase of the elderly discount by €222 from 1 January 2017;]] [[calls on the government to maintain the elderly discount at €222 per year in the 2017 Tax Plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34302-L]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u15	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State and his colleagues for answering my group's questions and congratulating Mr Köhler on his maiden speech last week. The 2016 Tax Plan is certainly one of the legislative proposals of this cabinet that required the most debate, measured in meeting hours. That was necessary, too. The Tax Plan reflects deeper political positions that relate to fundamental views on the economy, justice and sustainability. The Tax Plan is not a succession of fiscal things and things, but it is about political values and political choices. In the first term, it became clear that the Christian Union Group has major problems with this Tax Plan and the novelle does not change that much. And then it's about those underlying political values and political choices. We have listened carefully to the answers given by the Secretary of State, but they have not removed our doubts, at least not on the most appropriate points. Our measuring bar consisted of four assessment criteria: is the Tax Plan justified, is it realistic, is it just and is it green. My group's final judgment is not positive, not even with regard to the novella, and we sincerely regret that. The increase in the budget deficit of 5 billion for a package with a poor and uncertain yield is, in all, too weak a proposition. 35,000 jobs in the long term is not only a butter-soft figure, but it is simply too little, and it is also too late, because the Netherlands has 600,000 unemployed. It offers no prospects for them, and certainly not for the more than 250 000 long-term unemployed among them. With an investment of EUR 5 billion, a higher and faster return must be the stakes. The number of job plans in this cabinet is now barely visible: the energy agreement with 15,000 jobs, the social agreement with 125,000 jobs, the Natural Pact with 40,000 jobs and the health agreement with 40,000 jobs retained. Then I'm sure I'll leave out a few more. With all these job plans, it is surprising that we still have unemployment at all. The novelle doesn't add anything to creating jobs. The CPB reports that the novelle "has a marginal positive effect on employment of rounded 0.0%'. That is a sentence which, as far as I am concerned, may write parliamentary history. The Secretary of State is agile to add that, in the long term, the 5 billion package will still create 35,000 additional jobs with the novelle. That's the kind of sentence you write when you're actually expecting less jobs. The Christian Union Group considers that without a fundamental and well-thought-out reform of our tax system we should not pump around 5 billion. It is money that we borrow from the next generation unsolicited and that increases our national debt further. We share the concerns of the Council of State on this crucial point. In the face of the elections, the cabinet makes good credit with money that it doesn't have in cash. Much better would have been to reserve this money for a real system review that seeks the right balance between paid labour and unpaid care, between family and individual, between consumption and environmental taxes. My group will give every Dutchman a douche bag, but it will if we have our economy in order and put the right priorities in place. Now it smells like electoral opportunism. The very uncertain and precarious international political and economic context requires that we put our financial buffers in order and, above all, keep them in place. The Tax Plan is not only irresponsible in our view, but also unjust. We have talked about this in detail. People who provide unpaid care to relatives and relatives, chronically ill and disabled people, benefit recipients and some elderly people are getting rid of it. They're their own forgotten groups. Paid labour is all that beats the clock; unpaid labour is not appreciated by this cabinet. The novella confirms this primate. We hold the Secretary of State to his fine words in order to consider, in the preparations for the 2017 Tax Plan, how the tax-sensitive position of a earner can be done justice. The Schalk motion must not disappear from view. We will continue to follow the Secretary of State on this point. I agree with Mr Van Rij on this point. The Climate Agreement also requires a much more decisive policy from the Netherlands. Also effective fiscal policies are needed to accelerate the necessary sustainability and greening of our economy. The Secretary of State, as it turns out over and over again, doesn't really focus on the retina and shoots quickly in a problem mode. Many environmental incentives, he says, are not effective. The answer to this argument is, of course, not that we should therefore refrain from using tax incentives, but that we should stop all our energy in the design of efficient environmental incentives. Then we really do justice to Creation and to the interests of future generations. My group welcomes the fact that the agreement with D66 provides greening impulses, although it must be said that these are agreements, with the exception of the intensification of energy-saving measures, which will lead to possible results only after 2016. Moreover, these measures, for example the phasing-out of coal-fired power stations, which, however important, do not directly affect taxation. The possible extension of the municipal tax area is also fiscal future music. The 2016 Tax Plan has become a fiscal grabbelton, in which everyone in the cabinet is given some spread, but especially in the corner of the workers. At the same time, the necessary tax reform is disappearing beyond the horizon. And there is the really missed opportunity, namely the chance to make the Dutch economy really stronger. The tax plan is not sufficiently responsible, unfair, not enough green, but not enough realistic. This applies in particular to the claimed job return. I went into this in detail last week, including the technique of calculation models. Of course, I won't do that again here. It is good to have shared that we should be cautious in the political cashing of CPB job projections. The Hague, therefore, we must not go along with the planning agency's employment calculations. The agency itself will be the first to confirm this. As I said last week, models are models and politics is politics. My group appreciates our national mathematicians and their independent position, but they can only row with the belts they have. I also refer to the interview with CPB director Laura van Geest in the Reformatorisch Dagblad last Saturday. The CPB labour supply models are based, according to data from the years 2006-2009. These years only partly cover the economic crisis. The answer given by the Secretary of State to my written question on this matter shows more recent dates. In order to provide a more up-to-date and realistic basis for the debate on job projections, in particular on the impact of unemployment developments, I would like, in conclusion, to table a motion on the much-needed update of the forecasting models. The President shall: Mr Ester, Mr Van Rij, Mr Köhler, Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Bikker and Mr Schalk proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the CPB introduced a renewed MICSIM model and published several labour market studies using this model;]] [[noting that labour supply elasticities in the MICSIM model have been estimated on the basis of data relating to the period 2006-2009;]] [[whereas the CPB states that due to the low involuntary unemployment over the period 2006-2009, it has therefore had a marginal downward impact on labour supply elasticities in the MICSIM model;]] [[Whereas involuntary unemployment is now significantly higher than in the period 2006-2009;]] [[Whereas, according to the reply (34302 (G)), the CPB now has more recent dates;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the CPB to process the most up-to-date data in the MICSIM model and to use them in labour market studies and calculations of employment effects of planned government policies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34302-M]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u16	Mr. Chairman. I mentioned it last week, but the most bizarre thing about the novelle is the letter which shows that after a number of years of demolition policy this cabinet is also prepared to take up the physical breakdown of the Netherlands. Ten coal power stations are on the nomination to be closed to save the shit tax plan we were allowed to deal with last week. Among them are three brand new coal plants which have just been built totalling 4.5 billion. At the same time, hundreds of coal plants are planned, in China and Indonesia alone. For example, under the guise of greening with billions of dollars in capital destruction, the Netherlands on the left thinks that a few billion additional burdens could be added to some CO molecules from the air. The impact on electricity prices is taken into account. And what about the jobs? With this novelle, taxes on labour go up by 266 million. With that money we get up to €36 additional exemption on the savings. Even fewer jobs, then. With the novelle the purchasing power is 0.1% down. The roads of D66 are, as often, inscrutable. The other doger, the CDA, makes it at least as furious. The story about box 3 was unacceptable and the disastrous consequences for border areas of the high excise duties were sometimes stressed in the past. This does not prevent the CDA from voting in favour of the Tax Plan. The PVV is clear. I had already found that this Tax Plan is not a reduction in charges, but a reduction in charges. The novelle doesn't change that. The PVV will vote against.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u17	Mr. Chairman. The government and the coalition of VVD and PvdA operate in circles with their defense of the 2016 Tax Plan. When we see that people with a minimum income are not making any progress at all, the answer is that this is because it has been deliberately chosen to increase the employment discount, because it creates so many jobs. When we then find that 28 000 jobs for EUR 4.5 billion are very low, the Secretary of State replies that it is not a job plan either, but first of all a reduction in the burden, now that it is possible to reduce the burden a little more after the crisis. However, that is precisely what we are criticizing. The people most affected by the crisis in recent years are those on low incomes and the elderly, those who have turned in the most, are now the least affected. Low-income households receive €130 a year, middle-income households €650 and high-income households €1,000. The government coalition does not want to go into our proposals for a fairer distribution of charges. Across the street, the Secretary of State thanked the Christian Union, the SGP, GroenLinks and the SP for their constructive amendments. However, the government coalition chooses a deal with D66, which is worked out in the novelle. Now that the novelle has passed the House of Representatives unchanged, I can go into more detail. My findings are as follows. 1. There will be 0.0% jobs. Mr Bakker says in his first term that the logic is to say that if he were to count on it, it would still have to give extra jobs, but that he would not go into these calculation exercises further. I'm right about that. If the rounded zero point results in zero orbits, he can't present it as a success, can he? 2. There is no further greening of the tax system in the novelle. However, EUR 100 million will be made available once for energy saving for homeowners. In itself, I find this positive. 3. The small increase in the tax in the second and third discs in 2016 and 2017 is linked to the increase in the labour discount for income above €35,000 from 2017. This results in a small shift within income groups above €35,000 per year from no longer working to working. We do not consider that to be an improvement. 4. There is a commitment that the government will send a preliminary draft law to increase municipal taxes to the Lower House. The coalition partners have not committed themselves to this, as has become clear in the debate in the Lower House. This may never bring that law into this Chamber. All in all, a pretty empty shell for our hunting friends from D66, with apologies from Mrs. Prast. In the first term, Mr Bakker argued that his group had thereby stretched a safety net for the trapeze artist Wiebes. I have to say that it is a safety net for the Dutch Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament. In the debate so far on the Tax Plan, I find it remarkable that the government, the VVD, the PvdA and D66 are so much hiding behind a CPB model that Parliament has now been forced, or feels compelled, not to amend the Tax Plan, but to amend the CPB model by means of a motion. We are far gone in this respect, but that does not mean that Mr Ester's motion is going to hit the nail on the head. We will wholeheartedly support that motion. I come to my last subject, the position of the little saver. There have been remarkable things said about this in the written consultation and in the debate. The letter of 8 December on the D66 agreement stated that raising the tax-free foot in the capital tax from over €21,000 to over €24,000 in favour of the small saver. That's not true. The vast majority of savers own less than €21,000 and pay no tax at all. The change does not benefit them. A small group with a capacity of between €21,000 and €24,000 improves on average €18 per year. People with a capacity from €24,400, including millionaires, are improving €36. In the answers to the questions on the letter of 8 December, which we received last Monday morning, this also says in so many words, I quote: 'The measure is most beneficial to households with higher incomes'. That's what it says. In the answers to the questions about the novelle which the Secretary of State sent to the House of Representatives last Tuesday, that clarity has disappeared again. That's too bad. Anyway, it doesn't make the little saver any better. In his first term, Mr Van Rij mentioned someone with up to €100,000 as a small saver. It's just what environment you're in. He then complained that, after the Secretary of State's proposal, he still had to pay 0.87% tax. That's not entirely true, because his capital tax drops from 0.95% to 0.65% if you have €100,000, but that's a detail. For the CDA, this too low tax reduction is a reason to completely oppose the tax reduction. That's opposition! Mr Van Rij stated that the CDA would continue its opposition to the changed capital efficiency levy next year. That's their right. We in the SP, too, sometimes resist laws that have already been passed for years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u18	I have a question for Mr Köhler. He says he doesn't find anyone with more than 22,000 in savings anymore. I am talking in particular about people who have worked hard their whole lives, small SMEs who have sold their store, for example, and who may have €20,000-€50,000 in their bank accounts, which they then have to live on because they sold the store. In Mr Köhler's definition, these people are not small savers, but their capital must be placed under big business.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u19	The word 'large capital' introduces you to this debate. I am pleased to hear that, because that is what we need to talk about. The Netherlands has 9 million savers with savings below €21,000 and 3 million savers with assets above that. By the way, the small saver with a capital of €50,000 is far from paying what Mr Van Rij called. He pays half of 0.87%, which is 0.44% tax. What is Mr Van Rij talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u20	What I'm talking about is that you don't answer my question. It's people who have worked hard their whole lives, whether they're still working hard, who are self-employed, who sell their stores, and then, for example, they're left with $50,000. I'm going with Mr. Köhler. They have this exemption of €22,000 and soon €25,000, but still have to pay a heavy tax on the other €25,000. So you do not want to stand up for them, I note.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u21	I see the opposite. The tax shall be reduced for that group. The rate of return remains 30%, but the expected return for that group is from 4% to 2.9%. So that's a tax cut for that group. We as SP support that, you do not support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u22	My point is that someone like that puts it on the couch and gets 1% if he gets it right at the bank. Inflation is 1%. With the cabinet's proposal, too, he is grabbing on his assets, not by 1.2%, but by 0.83%. We are opposed to this. We want the exemption to be higher, so that at least such a person does not interfere with his ability. Isn't that a much better proposal than what you're advocating here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u23	No, we want the tax on real returns to be reduced for that group in the future. We want that for all the other groups, just as you seem to want it now. But for that group, the capital efficiency tax goes down. That's ahead of us now. You are against that proposal because you do not think it goes far enough. I find that illogical; we are in favour. We are in favour of lowering taxes for that group. We are even more in favour of the real return in the future, so that people who put their capital only in a savings account will have to pay much less tax. By the way, wouldn't you and I, but you in particular, advise anyone who has a capital of €80,000 to put that in a savings account alone?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u24	Finally, Mr Van Rij.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u25	The explanatory statement shows that 60% of people just do that. They're careful. You're not going to recommend someone who has €80,000 or €60,000 in a bank account to invest it in the AEX? You saw what happened to that, didn't you? Powers are halved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u26	I certainly wouldn't invest in the AEX, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u27	You're not saying they should leave it on the couch. You say they won't accept that. My point is that they are too much on the ability to interne. You'd like to convey that message to those little savers. We disagree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u28	Our argument is that capital tax should be levied in the future on actual returns. Then you can still differ on whether it should be about the nominal or real return, but it must be levied on the actual returns. In the examples you mention, the tax would go further down at the moment, i.e. with the current savings rate. We see that the Secretary of State is now taking a first step. For that group, the tax goes down. But you're against it because you don't think it's going far enough. We do not consider that to be a constructive way of opposing. We say more: it is coming our way, so that is why we are in the paradoxical position. It's in the Tax Plan, so you'd have to stand up to it and we'd have to stand up to it, but that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u29	I would have stayed there at the end of my speech. We in the SP sometimes oppose passed laws for many years, but these are laws that we voted against. Next year, the CDA will oppose a part of a law that it voted for as a whole. That's a new figure for me, but you're never too old to learn. Thanks to the CDA Group, I can conclude my contribution to this debate with the observation that we have learned a little bit from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u30	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Köhler for his original approach. Of course, I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for all the answers he gave us a week ago. Today we are doing the second term, because the novelle has now also been accepted by the House of Representatives. Frankly, we did not change our minds very much in relation to what I said last week. As far as we are concerned, this is a disappointing tax plan. In fact, little has happened in terms of the objective of simplification and real reforms. We are concerned in particular with the 5 billion reductions, which we are wondering whether it is the right measure at this difficult time with a lot of major challenges, many social needs, many people with very little work and a great task of greening. After all, these 35,000 jobs that it should generate in the longer term are lean. As far as we are concerned, there is too little greening and the inequality between workers and non-workers is increased by this Tax Plan. A lot of money goes to people who just don't need it. I ask again what I asked last week: why not invest in home aid? This also provides work and really does something about a major social issue. On these points, the Secretary of State has not been able to reassure us, so the criticism is still standing. He couldn't convince us. I ask him once again why he thinks the extension of the third disc and therefore also the reduction of the third disc's rate is necessary. He has already said that the employment effect is becoming increasingly marginal in the direction of the higher discs. This certainly applies to such reductions in the rate of income tax. Why not use the amount involved, so some 900 million, if I am right, to invest, for example, in home aid and other social issues? Can the Secretary of State once again address the question of what, in his view, is the result of precisely this measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u31	My question concerns the point made in this connection. You indicated that most of the money goes to the workers. As you know, the SGP Group has tabled a motion aimed in particular at the single-earners. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance did not support that motion at the time. The first question is, of course, whether she is now sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u32	The answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u33	The second question is, of course, undoubtedly: why does Mrs Vos not yet regret it? In other words, how does she look at this huge gap between one- and two-earners? I will immediately follow up my question to keep the debate as short as possible. The Secretary of State has indicated that he wants to look at opportunities to do something for a earner, provided it does not cause job losses. Is the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance sensitive to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u34	No. This is a good question. We support measures such as continuing the combination discount, because we believe it is very important that both partners work in families as much as possible. We consider the economic independence of both partners to be very important, although, of course, it has traditionally been the case of women who are not economically independent. In this sense, we support the direction taken by the cabinet. We have seen that there is something going on with the income position of certain groups of earners, as the Nibud also points out. We are not opposed to having another look at this. For now, we support the cabinet line. We also believe that we should not simply deviate from that, but, of course, thinking never stands still.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u35	We are talking about 75% of 1 million single-earners, including, for example, 125,000 women who would be a earner. Of those 1 million, 75% are unable to get or accept a job because they have to provide care, home care and so on. In that case, it might be good to reconsider whether the combination should always be so leading or whether we should also look at the position of these single-earners. I am happy to give that to the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u36	Of course it is important to look very closely at all these situations. On the other hand, we prefer to look for other solutions in the context of family care. We believe it is very important for people to be as independent as possible. That is what we want to encourage. We believe that the cabinet is moving in the right direction. I have already said that, of course, it is always necessary to check whether, in some situations, things do not occur that you do not want. By the way, in these situations, I think you can look more broadly at the income position. You could also look at the care and housing costs. There is, of course, a group that is not financially comfortable. Mr Backer is right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u37	I had the impression that Mrs Vos had finished her speech. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u38	No, Mrs. Fox is actually just getting started. I am certainly going to meet Mr Backer. I had asked a question about the extension of the third disc. I had asked to explain why it is necessary and whether there could be more socially desirable alternatives. I mentioned a number of them. The Secretary of State had already more or less answered this question last time. He said, among other things, that a balanced distribution of income is a prerequisite for this whole operation. I assume he means that the people on high incomes should also benefit from it. Everyone needs to be relieved of their burdens. For the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, the real question is whether we should aim for people who are already able to make ends meet to be relieved. Isn't that the best way to spend that money? A second point is that the distribution of income seems to be particularly true for workers. The non-working guys are out for a while. Is that how the Secretary of State looks at it? Are only the workers the party that needs to be looked at? We have difficulty with that choice in the Tax Plan. I would stress that the Nibud has stated that 75% of the beneficiaries are hard to live by. There's a lot going on in that group. Around the greening, the Secretary of State said that he did not want to use taxation as a trigger for greening after the Paris agreement. In short, I understand him well when he says that fiscal greening is about to come to an end. We do the maximum and there's not that much left in the barrel. Honestly, I'm surprised. The energy levy for large consumers is still extremely low compared to the levy for small and medium-sized enterprises and for households. To say in advance that nothing can happen to it, I find strange. Industry, for example, has a huge task to do with energy saving. The objectives set out in the energy agreement on energy saving are hardly met. There's still a big job to do. I challenge the Secretary of State. I understand that he can't do it right away, because he can't do it politically. However, it should not close the door, which means that further fiscal greening, especially for large consumers, is no longer in place. The coal tax is not negotiable for now either. I would say that it has to come back into view, because one way or another the coal plants will have to shut down. That's what the Secretary of State mentioned in his letter. We support the energy tax and the increase in gas taxation. We do find it a bit unfortunate that this has been combined with the reduction of the tax on electricity. Shouldn't we have chosen a different design for that? We would also have liked to see a more targeted use of the proceeds. For example, we would have liked the large housing corporations to be approached to invest heavily in energy saving, especially in old homes where households often live with lower incomes. By the way, the novelle offers an opportunity. 100 million will be made available, unfortunately once. We would have liked it to have been structural. I am extremely curious whether this amount can be targeted for, for example, large housing corporations, or whether this money will only be used for property owners. Perhaps the Secretary of State can shed some light on that. We got a signal from the solar sector. One would fear that the reduction of energy taxation on electricity would have disadvantages for the solar sector. Has the Secretary of State received that signal, and has he looked into it? I'd already started the novel. Of course, the 100 million is a plus. We're just saying that a one-off amount is a little thin. How effective can you bet that $100 million? We also note that the novelle provides 0.0% jobs, shows a slight preference for the really high incomes, because in 2017 they will be more slowly faced with the reduction of the tax rebate, and a small decline for the low incomes to €35,000. We also regret that. Then we have the interesting proposal to add 4 billion, which is now levied through income tax, to the tax domain of the municipalities. In itself, that's interesting. There is certainly an interest at GroenLinks in the idea of giving the municipalities more space to tax. The big question, however, is how this tax will be applied. If the cabinet says that there should be no income policy in any way, it would be an almost equal amount of tax per citizen. If the cabinet is referring to this, it is negative for lower incomes. We find it extremely difficult to assess whether this is going to be a positive course of action or not. I'd like to see a little more light on this from the Secretary of State. Moreover, we note that this is particularly towards D66 the question of whether it all remains very uncertain. It may go in 2019, so it's just a question of whether you have something to catch here or not. It's a start, but it still needs to be made. In short, the novelle is for us a slight improvement, but also a disappointment and in any case not enough to support the Tax Plan. We are somewhat surprised at the D66 Group. That's what I said last time. While Mr Pechtold has made a huge point and the cabinet has capitalised very hard, because it had no ambition at all in the field of employment, he is satisfied with 0.0% employment. We can't follow that. I'll come to a conclusion. We believe that the Tax Plan does not contribute enough to greening, creates too little work, solves too little social problems and contributes to further division between workers and non-workers. Perhaps another miracle is happening, but until now we will not support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u39	I would like to thank Mrs Vos for the great length of time she has devoted to the position of my group. However, I find it interesting to know what her position is. I didn't really understand what she was going to do with the novelle. I looked at the voting behaviour of her group in the House of Representatives. I was pleased to see that the group supported the novella, which surprised me somewhat after Mrs Vos's initial contribution. I'm sure she can lift a hint of the veil. What's GroenLinks gonna do later?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u40	I already have. We're not voting separately on the novelle. For the House of Representatives, that is in fact an amendment. My group in the House of Representatives has apparently considered that the amendment made it a little bit better, but it still believes that it does not support the Tax Plan. The same applies to my group in the Upper Chamber. We see no reason to support the Tax Plan. There is a slight improvement, but not enough to support the plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u41	The novelle will be put to the vote under a separate number. So it's a separate part of the bill. I was curious what GroenLinks would do with that. I think Mrs Vos is counting on D66 to support the improvements in childcare, gas and electricity and greening, so that they can reach the finish line, so that GroenLinks can take its beneficial effects. That's what's gonna happen later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u42	As a group, you have to make your own decision. I have made it clear that there is some improvement for greening. For a number of other things, the GroenLinks Group in the Upper Chamber believes that there are still some doubts about the novelle, because there are deteriorations. In total, given the new legislative proposal that will be before us, it is not enough for us to support the novelle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u43	Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group thanks the Secretary of State for answering our questions and the explanatory statement and the debate last week. The novelle has now passed the House of Representatives, thanks to him. We've been over that for a while. Fortunately, my contribution last week does not need to be revoked either, because no substantive changes have been made to the novelle. Another ambition of my group, expressed in the first term, is still standing: to help achieve a major tax reform. Why? That can be said in this debate. One of the guides, or if one wishes principles, of social-liberal thinking is: reward achievement and share prosperity. Taxation is, because of its progressive elements, an instrument that achieves a socially-wide-based form of redistribution of wealth. The proceeds from taxation are also indispensable in order to fulfil the claim of equal opportunities for the development of every human being. Without it, a welfare state or a participatory society, whatever definition is used, is not guaranteed. Think of the funding of education and care and safety. So I'm also saying that you're not just achieving performance on your own. Society as a whole has contributed to this. Therefore, sharing by paying taxes after rewarding is also "a matter of civilisation." I read recently that Professor Leo Stevens wrote that and I quote him with agreement. You can think very differently about how to charge it. We have just heard the same thing from Mr Köhler. We must therefore always ask ourselves whether the system that plays such a crucial role is still in place at this time. That is why there is a discussion about a revision of the system. In my first term, therefore, I also drew attention to the ongoing adjustment exercise that we have. I will return to the novelle and the legislative proposals before us. My group does not take over the terminology I often hear. The reduction of charges in this terminology would be something like "giving money back to citizens'. What is proposed here is to ask taxpayers in the second and third disks and within the free foot of box 3, to contribute a little less to general resources and to make work more rewarding. The agreements in the fourth letter of amendment and de novelle indeed reduce taxes on working parents. It is an improvement for the workers, with or without children. That is a choice and there is a difference of opinion in Parliament. On balance, the package promotes employment. This has beneficial purchasing power effects and it is ultimately good for greening. You heard the Secretary of State say: he thought the last package was just acceptable and he would not have included the adjustments himself in the novelle without our intervention. Well, we can be very up-and-coming about that, but that's the situation. I would like to thank Mr Köhler for devoting a great deal of his speaking time to ridiculing the novel. It's okay. Everyone can make their own choice to fill in their speaking time. The letter of 17 December, which was written in response to the debate on the novella, dealt with a number of aspects of implementation. They were also discussed in the Lower House. I note that they are feasible, and that is important for the review in this Chamber, including in the second instance. I also note, even though not everyone thinks so, that they largely contain good news. There is a large number of people who can still claim a rent allowance. I haven't heard anyone about that, but that's a lucky break for, from my mind, the 30,000 people who can claim it. In addition, a lot of fiscal and related measures are being taken. I'm not going to discuss it now. I now come to the subject of local taxes. We look forward to the preliminary draft. I don't think we need to take positions on this right now. This is a preliminary draft, which can and will of course be discussed very widely. The cabinet is thus taking the right path to reform. We'll see exactly what it looks like. We're all there. Mr Van Rooijen spoke of a local coal letter, but I think that is coal English. He meant the coal letter and the local taxes. Whatever you think of it, this is a turning point in thinking about local taxes. In my first term, I quoted Professor Schoont. I looked into it again: in 1968 he wrote a learned article on this subject. After that many followed him, until recently the Rinnooy Kan Committee. Some issues seem to require a long political incubation period. The D66 group now has experience with this. It never discouraged us either. Think of the pension boards and a few other topics. It usually starts with the cabinet's own plan. That is now in the preliminary draft. That is also the lesson of this year's Tax Plan. Then we will see the forms and the simultaneous adjustment of income tax, which Mrs Vos also talked about, and what that will mean. But let's not get ahead of ourselves and lock the door. That would be a shame. My group is convinced that, in conjunction with the letter of 8 December and the additional measures agreed with the cabinet, an important choice has been made for the way in which citizens and directors in our country will be taxed in the future beyond the horizon of the 2016 Tax Plan. It will be a very in-depth debate. I'm going to talk briefly about investing in sustainability. My group would like to urge that the 100 million available to make the built environment more sustainable should not be added to a fund, for example to the ISDE grant, but that the amount should be available for local initiatives. This is therefore an incentive to join plans at local level, often involving the VNG. Many of these plans are already in the pipeline for which funding is sought. Let me briefly mention the Wbso/RDA. I can't leave that subject alone. I note an unsatisfactory response from the Secretary of State. I can see behind him the shadow of his colleague Camp, because it's in his wallet. In order not to get a repeat of moves in the second term, I ask the Secretary of State to say as a fallback that he provides for monitoring. If he's right that it doesn't hurt, then the monitoring doesn't hurt. If that is not the case, however, if my group fears that, then the action is not to get the money back from those who, according to the rules, were entitled to it, as I read in the papers of the House of Representatives. The action is then to see from that date whether the scheme can be adjusted. Perhaps the innovation box could be used for this if it is not exhausted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u44	I have a question for Mr Backer to clarify. Does he refer to the integration of RDA/Wbso, where companies that now benefit from the RDA, because they pay corporate tax, are declining after integration, because they are insufficiently compensated in that second disc? Is that what he's referring to?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u45	That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u46	Then I would like to endorse Mr Backer's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u47	I come now to Mr Van Rij's favourite subject: capital taxes. I agree with Mr van Rij that this has not actually been the subject of an in-depth debate. So that will also take place in 2016 and 2017 I would say: in parallel with what is now being prepared - because the preparation is in accordance with the motion-Bashir c.s. a tax on real returns. But the discussion about the structure and the transfer to box 2, which just came up, should take place and not be ignored. I would also like to take this opportunity to comment on the interruption of Mr Van Rooijen. I asked him what he meant. I did not mean to say that in the example Mr Van Rij put forward, something counter-empty would happen and that he would legitimize it. That wasn't the port of my comment. It was more that I was surprised that he would already foresee the behavior and the behavioural effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u48	It's all right for you to say this. I didn't say "contra legem." I said that perhaps you wanted to give the impression after your comment, but I now doubt that I meant that this could be based on a certain amount of legitimacy. You didn't say "contra legem," and I didn't say that either. That goes a lot further and farther.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u49	We both didn't say things, but what I did say now is what I wanted to say. I hope that Mr Van Rooijen also agrees. My group advises the cabinet to conduct the entire wealth tax debate and perhaps also the capital growth debate open-mindedly and not to serve everyone who comes up with ideas from science because a choice has already been made in the 2017 Tax Plan. Then I come to people and machine, as I called it in the first term. This part of my speech concerns the operation of the Tax Administration and the fact that we are no longer able to make certain changes at this late hour. The Secretary of State has done some defiances about the challenges facing the Tax Administration. In order not to lose that point, I propose that we hold an oral discussion on this with the Secretary of State for Finance in the new year, so that we can consider the possible solutions. I would like to say a few words about the timing of this debate. I mean not at the time of the evening, but at the time of the year. I spoke about this in the first place. We should really aim to have this debate earlier. To this end, the legislative proposals should be submitted earlier, preferably as soon as possible after the General Financial Reviews. The cabinet would improve its life on this point, but of course we all have to cooperate in this. I know that my group has some butter on its head, because it too has caused some delay. I'm honest with you about that. All in all, we should strive to do so earlier. Anyone who wants to take responsibility for this, I call upon him to do so. This is not least true of ourselves. Finally. In the first term, I wondered if the 2016 Tax Plan was a prelude of overture for the major tax review. There are elements of a follow-up, but the real answer will only be apparent in the coming period. It will go step by step, the Secretary of State said. I look forward to the sequel. My group hopes that, in order to stay in musical terms, it will not become the Unvolendete van Wiebes. It will be clear that my group has both the original proposals and the novelle (No. 34460) will support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u50	Mr Backer said the necessary thing about capital taxes. I had to think about that for a while, because it seemed so sunk. If I have understood him correctly, he calls on the cabinet to give serious consideration to the way in which future taxes on wealth income are to be taxed, on the basis of the Bashir c.s motion. Most likely, it's gonna take some time. In that motion, the cabinet is called upon to make a proposal in the 2017 Tax Plan. I agree with Mr Backer that you have to take a serious look at it and weigh all the options. That won't be an easy exercise. Will Mr Backer respond to the motion I have just tabled? I'm assuming it could take a little more time, maybe two, three, four years. Is he prepared to consider whether he wishes to support the temporary solution to which the cabinet is called in this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u51	Mr Van Rij spoke of a sinking judgment. I'd be happy to accept that as a compliment. I would also like to have a sinking judgment on this issue. I've seen the motion briefly. There are some elements in it that I find difficult. I find it difficult for a group to vote in favour of the Tax Plan, which includes a look-through to 2017. I have therefore chosen to be cautious in this respect. In my opinion, thinking about this should never stop. We have had a hearing here, in which a number of fiscalists have said some very sensible things about box 3 and about this proposal. My group is open to that debate, but now, when accepting the whole package of the 2016 Tax Plan, I do not think it is the time to adopt a new motion in this Chamber, in which other things are asked for, on a motion that has already been tabled in the House of Representatives, asking for real returns, with a date. That goes a little further than I'm making a sinking judgment, as you called it, about thinking about box 3. I believe that this debate is too fast, and it is unfinished as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u52	It's a temporary situation. The cabinet also says that what is proposed is a temporary situation. Even if there are unthought-out behavior effects, undesirable effects and no approach to the real return situation, I would nevertheless like to consider Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u53	That thinking never stops. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u54	Mr. Chairman. In response to the reply of the Secretary of State, for which I would like to thank him very much, I have a few questions and comments, like everyone else. It was clear, I think, that I am not in favour of using income tax to pursue political goals, but that I would prefer to see a neutral system that is burdened by carrying capacity and that takes into account household composition according to capacity. My conclusion is that I insist that the government re-establish a reform of the tax system. And I'm not the only one who does. We note with each other that this government does not have a great deal of time for this. The Secretary of State would do me a favor by including income tax, the municipal tax area, Mr Backer noted that the revision would be a breakthrough and also, for example, the inheritance tax in a review. The inheritance tax at the time had very large and not entirely justifiable differences between inheritance of entrepreneurial property and other assets. That is a new element in this discussion, but I would not leave that out. I am not the only one who specifically asks whether the Secretary of State is going back to work on the system. I would therefore prefer not to see limited adjustments, which often produce more of the same in practice. I'd rather see the Secretary of State make a clear new beginning. That proves this Tax Plan. If we want to talk about a real review, I would like to point again, as in the first term, at the initiative of the centre-right Finnish government to experiment nationwide with a basic income. In the Netherlands experiments are also carried out locally, but they are more limited. In Utrecht, a system is tried out with a basic income for benefit recipients only. In Finland, it is explicitly intended to involve everyone, including the working population. Something similar is being discussed in Switzerland. I do not have the illusion that we could simply introduce a real basic income here without problems as part of a new tax system. However, our social system gives rise to so many special arrangements that it makes sense for us to take account of the possibilities of replacing all this with a single generic regime. All measures in the field of taxes, allowances and benefits are ultimately the most cost-effective, but probably the most equitable. Would the Secretary of State like to monitor the upcoming Finnish experiences and try to draw lessons from that different model? I'll be on box three. We shall, of course, come back to that during the year. Mr Van Rij's motion, which I wholeheartedly support, also leads me to believe. In any case, the Secretary of State wishes to continue with a system which in principle has to tax capital efficiency. It's hard for him to change, that's obvious. Could he please tell us how he wants to deal with the dilemma I mentioned last week? Does he want to tax capital income or capital gains? That makes a lot of difference. Capital revenues are likely to be easier to identify than capital gains, but the tax based on them is also likely to be easier to avoid, or at least for a long time to be delayed. We used to have experience of this before 2001, right? Has this not led us to opt for a very simple system, which does not actually tax wealth revenue, but property possession? I ask the Secretary of State again why he would choose a problematic system rather than a very simple one. You can fight about the rates. Mr Van Rij has already made a nice move, but it seems to me that a simple capital tax is more unjust than a complex capital tax. Moreover, I noted that Mr Backer was already talking about capital taxes and not about capital efficiency taxes. The consequences of a vote for or against the Tax Plan, I come to the following conclusion for myself. The tax plan does not make the distribution of the tax burden fairer, quite the contrary. But it does result in a limited increase in purchasing power or even more than a limited increase in purchasing power, for almost everyone. In my view, that is premature, because I believe that the means used to do so could have been better used. However, rejection of the Tax Plan results in a decrease in purchasing power for almost everyone. In view of the development of the Dutch economy, I think that the first, despite all my objections, is still the most justifiable alternative. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u55	Mr. Chairman. There were elections a few weeks ago. Not from guessing, States or Rooms, but from "Gone with that word." It was striking that one of the ten nominated words was "participant society." That word must disappear according to many in our society. They just think it's a vulgar word, which means: figure it out for yourself. So get rid of it. That's a big deal. A beautiful word from a Throne speech has become a farce within a few years. That's sad! The members of the SGP do not want to accept that. It is precisely in our society that we need coherence, that we need room for our own choices. And we need to make it in a good balance between care and labor. I use that order very consciously: care and labor. I see that as a biblical line, too. That is the participatory society we should be pursuing. We would also like to see this in the 2016 Tax Plan; that there is room for free choices. That participation is not limited to work, work, work, because this leads to a choice-based constraint. The incentives to conduct everyone to a paid job have gone through. The button of the transferable tax rebate has been tightened too tight. Unfortunately, that has not been restored in the novelle, at least not for the year 2016. But in the House of Representatives, the Secretary of State said in the debate on the novelle to Mr Dijkgraaf van de SGP that he saw the discussion of the Schalk motion as the zeroth term of the discussion of the 2017 Tax Plan. He then promised a letter on which groups would be taxed more heavily or less heavily, with the corresponding reasons. My question is, of course, whether this letter is also offered to this Chamber, and whether the Secretary of State is prepared to include in that letter options to reduce the differences between one and two earners, with the corresponding conditions. Can he indicate the deadline on which this letter can be expected? Back to the debate in this Chamber. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats welcomes the fact that the Secretary of State has admitted that there is a real problem with the single-earners. I quote: 'As far as I am concerned, Mr Schalk has, of course, touched on the substance of the subject.' Secondly, the Secretary of State said that there was a particular problem with employment. I am not going to repeat the discussion on the interpretation of the CPB models, just this: cold calculations do not lead to a participatory society. Care for the disabled, the sick and the weak does not provide any job in any model. And that also applies to the warm security of a family. But they do have added value, in addition to the value of paid labour. I would appreciate it if the Secretary of State asked the CPB to include this added value in the models, or at least in the interpretation of the model outcomes. Can the Secretary of State agree to that? Models may function as a policy tool, but the policy-maker must use them with his mind and heart. In response to my questions, and in response to questions from colleagues Van Rij and Ester, the Secretary of State indicated that he would like to pursue the search for the 2017 Tax Plan, and that there is a constructive discussion about proposals that do not cost employment, and that he would like to be the partner in this. I interpret that as an offer to talk further. Of course, I would like to comment on this, partly on behalf of seven other parties in this Chamber, who supported my motion on the gap between one and two-earners. Of course, this is not the time to draw the agendas. Besides, I'd like to give the Secretary of State a break. This is in line with my vision of the participatory society. But may I conclude that in the new year there will be an invitation from the Secretary of State to pursue the search, and if possible bring it to a successful conclusion towards the 2017 Tax Plan? With a positive response to this last question I hope to enjoy the coming recess even more. By the way, in relation to all of this, the importance and content of the Christmas party are far above any tax plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u56	Madam President. I've heard some very special things tonight. Mr Köhler of the SP has advocated a higher power exemption in box 3. Mr Van Rij of the CDA, the CDA, is nevertheless a party of stewardship, solidity and solidity, has tabled a motion to replace the temporary box 3 scheme with another temporary box 3 scheme with multiple directions that might be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u57	I seem to have expressed myself carelessly, because this is a misunderstanding. I didn't argue for a higher exemption in box 3. I have argued in favour of real taxation of the saver in the long term, regardless of whether it is the small saver. This could lead to a reduction in the tax burden on the saver's return.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u58	I got it the way I said it. It is wrapped up in the whole of your arguments, but at some point you had a discussion with Mr Van Rij about the exemption in box 3. You were in favour of this higher exemption, and you made all kinds of conclusions about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u59	I agree with Mr Köhler. Mr Köhler and I have indeed had a debate, but I must disappoint you: not Mr Köhler, but the undersigned has argued for a higher exemption in box 3. That is how you should interpret the motion, not as you have just done. I hope that this has been a one-off change of identity between Mr Köhler and the undersigned!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u60	I hope so too! If it's up to me, I'd like to take that on my shoulders. The VVD Group has a somewhat simpler approach to this tax package and the novelle. My group has noted with satisfaction the novelle following the 2016 Tax Plan. During the discussion of the entire 2016 tax package in this house last week, my group already took the view that there is no major revision. The 2016 Tax Plan, part of the tax package, is not a major tax review either. In my group's opinion, this applies a fortiori to the novelle of the 2016 Tax Plan, which the State Secretary submitted on 9 December and which has since been accepted by the Lower House on 16 December. With the present novelle, the 2016 Tax Plan has been refined with a view to the income policy for citizens. Purchasing power is increasing to a greater or lesser extent for all citizens, on average by 1.3%. The novelle is positive for the citizen's wallet. This bill has the agreement of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u61	Mr. Chairman. Tonight we will discuss the Tax Plan 2016 package in second term, together with the novelle, which has now been adopted by the Dutch Parliament, which concerns a separate legislative proposal. We would like to thank the Secretary of State for the enthusiasm and ease with which he has answered our questions and the speed with which he has managed to achieve this. It is precisely because of this urgency that we are grateful to be given the opportunity to pass on the questions from our first term together with the answers of the Secretary of State. As indicated in the first term, my group supports the reduction of the burden on labour together with the additional support for people who are inactive. We can count on our support for the overall burden reduction package, combined with expected job growth and additional help for people at the bottom of the labour market. We also think it is fair that lower incomes should increase by percentage and that this should also apply to small savers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u62	How does Mrs Sent find that the lower incomes as a group, in total, are making more progress in terms of percentage? This is contrary to the figures given by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u63	That is what I get from the overviews in which the impact of the Tax Plan, if that were to continue, is compared to the case where it does not happen. I see, for example, that single people with minimum wage are improving 3.7%. Single parents are improving 3.6%. Single AOWs are up 1.4%. For example, I can quote more figures from this overview.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u64	You are now quoting the figures for the workers and those for the AOW's, which, by the way, you are not making very good reference to. The people without income from work, at the minimum, are improving 0% according to the State Secretary's figures, not only through the Tax Plan, but through the Tax Plan including all the additional measures you just mentioned. In total, low incomes, incomes up to 175% minimum wage law, are improving by 0.7% in household purchasing power, while higher incomes are improving by more than 2%, according to this table. Your argument that lower incomes are above all improving is therefore unacceptable on the basis of the figures of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u65	Mr Köhler's statement that the AOWs are not making any progress is also hard to make. The government is allocating 900 million to compensate for the purchasing power of pensioners. Social minima are indeed improving, couples with children for example 0.4% and single parents 0.4%. So this is a bit creative shopping by Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u66	Finally, Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u67	I'll mention other figures than you, but in the end you have to add up the whole group of low incomes and then share them. How much do they ultimately improve in percentage? According to the Secretary of State, this is on average 0.7%. I think he calculated this correctly. The higher income groups receive on average more than 2%. You can't make it so hard that the lower incomes are getting better by percentage, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u68	I can do that, based on the figures I have just given. The power section must also be taken into account. This shows that smaller savers are making more progress than larger savers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u69	Finally, Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u70	I'm about to give up, too. Surely you are not saying that the lower income groups are on average eligible for the tax reduction for people with a capacity above €21,000? That may be a promillage of the whole group, but these people are hardly present.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u71	I don't see who holds what abilities, but I do see that the lower abilities are making relatively good progress while the higher abilities are turning in relative. That while the Netherlands scores relatively worse in terms of property inequality than the countries around us, but in terms of income inequality relatively better than the countries around us, even better as a result of tax legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u72	I have a question that fits in with this. Indeed, for 2016, an additional amount is granted once, including to increase the purchasing power of -1% to 0% or 0.1%, but does Mrs Sent agree with me that this is not an improvement in purchasing power, especially in the coming years? I already talked about blinders later. We are not just discussing the Tax Plan and the one-off measures for the year 2016. Does Mrs Sent agree with me that, in the period after 2016, the elderly will receive nothing in structural terms, while from 2017 onwards, the income-dependent care premium of €300 to €400 will severely reduce them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u73	I don't know what's gonna happen from 2017. I don't have a glass ball and I haven't had an insight into the 2017 Tax Plan. I do know the figures for recent years, for example 2004 to 2013. The social state of the Netherlands, the report of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, shows that pensioners are improving 3% while on average it is 1%. The Poverty Monitor of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau shows that older people are well below the average in terms of poverty rates. In the Tax Plan an average household improves 1.1%, but older people 1.3% compared to the basic path. In 2016, 900 million is structurally available. From 2017, that's 450 million. Then we wait for the 2017 Tax Plan to see what the consequences will be after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u74	First of all, this evening the Secretary of State confirmed in the reply that there is a structural burden increase of 500 million for the elderly, but that aside. The Secretary of State also answered last Friday's 50PLUS questions at 5:00 p.m. this evening. The reply to page 4 deals with purchasing power developments over the period 2004-2016. It says in writing that the AOWer with €10,000 supplementary pension has deteriorated by 4.5%, while a couple with €10,000 supplementary pension is declining by 1.5%. This is perhaps -3% on average, while the Secretary of State based himself last week on a report that was +3%. That's gonna save 6%. I shall come back to that later on in response to the reply from the Secretary of State. This evening, the Secretary of State confirmed the figures we already mentioned for the post-2010 period, unlike the Central Planning Office, from 2004 onwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u75	The figures I have are from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau of the Netherlands. It states that, for example, WW beneficiaries have fallen by 4% and single people have fallen by 3%, but that pensioners have improved by 3%. Again, the SCP's Poverty Signature shows that pensioners are doing relatively less harm in the field of poverty than, for example, single-parent families, single-parents, welfare recipients and children, who are having a relatively difficult time. Then I come to our individual points from the first term. First of all, on behalf of my group, I drew attention to the way in which behavioural effects are taken into account in proposed tax measures. We believe that information on direct behavioural effects of tax measures could and should play an important role in the various stages of the political decision-making process. The Secretary of State stated in his reply that the Study Group on Budget Space is looking into this and will deliver an opinion in 2017. This is taking too long for my group, and so we ask the Secretary of State what possibilities he sees for sharing the results of the study with us earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u76	I find it incredibly interesting what Mrs. Sent says. On behalf of the CDA Group, I would like to support the plea for an earlier picture of the behavioural effects. At the same time, I have a question about it. That is precisely the point I am trying to make about the unthought-out plan of the cabinet with regard to box 3. That is why I tabled a motion for a resolution with the support of a number of colleagues in the Chamber. Would Mrs. Sent like to respond to that? This is exactly her point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u77	I'll be back in a minute to talk about box 3. There are two reasons why I will not advise my group to vote in favour of the motion. Firstly, we consider the motion to be premature. We are waiting confidently for the plans that will reach us in the 2017 Tax Plan on taxing actual capital returns. A second reason is that I find the motion unclear, particularly with regard to coverage. Where is it supposed to be found?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u78	To begin with, it is an appeal to the cabinet to come up with a number of alternatives within the existing box 3. We didn't want to chisel that in concrete. The Central Planning Bureau has also calculated that if you double and abolish the exemption between €100,000 and 1 million and above, that will yield 400 million. That is not enough to cover the entire 900 million. But then I get to the exact point of the behavioral effects. The cabinet proposal will start on 1 January 2017. That is just going to happen, because there is a majority for that in the House of Representatives and unfortunately we cannot stop it, because then we have to stop the whole Tax Plan; we are not going to do that, because we are in favour of the tax relief. That proposal did not identify those behavioural effects. I would like to have a debate on this, and that is what the motion is about, because these behavioural effects are causing a gap in the budget. That is why I agree so fundamentally with Mrs Sent that these behavioural effects should be reflected. Do I understand her correctly that she cannot follow me on this particular point with regard to box 3? Wouldn't you like to sleep on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u79	I always do. I now have to believe to Mr Van Rij that the behavioural effects he brings forward are the behavioural effects that will occur. Hence my call for this to be made clearer in future, so that we do not have to make all kinds of predictions ourselves, but can receive the forecasts from the Central Planning Office or such a body. We therefore believe that it is premature to support a motion in line with Mr Van Rij in advance of this and in anticipation of the plans we have reached in the 2017 Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u80	Finally, Mr Van Rij.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u81	Mr President, you look very strict. I note that I have not achieved any effect on Mrs Sent's behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u82	Let the SCP or the CPB map that out. Secondly, in the first period, I asked for progress on taxing the actual individual returns in box 3. In doing so, this commitment seems to be carried almost Chamberwide. We welcome the commitment to be reported to the 2017 Tax Plan next year. We will be happy to use this to discuss with more information on the behavioural effects and their desirable outcomes. The same applies to the research promised on the avoidance possibilities for box 3, which we will receive from the 2017 Tax Plan, thanks to the work of the Coordination Group on Construction Control. We would also like to highlight the commitment that the study on the use of taxation for start-ups and start-up related SMEs will reach this summer recess chamber. Thirdly, my group is concerned that large companies are running off with the Wbso as a result of the integration of the S&D reduction and the RDA, together with the non-inclusion of a ceiling. Mr Backer has already drawn attention to this. The Secretary of State has tried to reassure us that this danger is not present because the National Entrepreneurship Agency would have an insight into what is going to happen. However, the scheme has always known a ceiling and there has never been an incentive or obligation to apply for more than would be granted. In fact, more allocated hours require more accountability, even if the allocation is capped on the ceiling. Insight into the volumina above the ceiling I don't expect. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? Data on the level of wage charges in the companies concerned provide the necessary insight, which is the natural ceiling, but the RVO has no formal insight into these data. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? In the old situation there was a natural barrier: if a company did not pay much corporate tax, the limit for using the RDA was determined by the ceiling and by the level of the Vpb amount. In the new situation, that border disappears, so it is unclear whether it will remain the same in the future. In short, there is a risk of large overruns in favour of large companies compared to the current estimate. In addition, the new scheme has a cash-flow problem for capital-intensive small and medium-sized enterprises with few staff. And that is when this particular group can use the support of innovation schemes to grow. We therefore ask the Secretary of State once again when the evaluation and consequences of this will be shared with this Chamber, so that the possible unintended consequences are made clear and there is sufficient time to think about an alternative design. I also support Mr Backer's call to monitor and to take action or consider alternatives if the consequences are not as expected. Fourthly, in the first place, my group has called for attention to be paid to the under-employment rate of women. In doing so, we have referred to research carried out by the Central Planning Office which shows that potential two-earners are relatively sensitive to financial incentives. However, an investigation by the Central Planning Bureau also shows that lowering rates has a much lower impact than in the past, as the employment rate has become less sensitive to financial incentives. The PvdA is therefore looking forward to the non-financial measures that we can expect from the government to stimulate the employment rate of women. Fifthly, my group, supported by the climate agreement just concluded in Paris, believes that further greening needs to be given extra attention. We understand from the Secretary of State that fiscal greening in his words has "a dramatic track record." This makes us all the more interested in the initiatives of the cabinet to implement greening measures inspired by behavioral economic insights. We will be asking the Secretary of State's colleagues in this area in the strongest possible terms. Finally, we first drew attention to the announced preliminary draft bill on the extension of the municipal tax area. We are pleased that the Secretary of State agrees with us that extending the municipal tax area should not mean greater income inequality, and we welcome his commitment to compensate for purchasing power decline. We did not hear him speak in the first period of time about the very great difference between perception and reality as regards the share of the various governments in the total revenue from taxes and premiums. We would like to ask the Secretary of State to give explicit consideration to this in the forthcoming preliminary draft. I would like to conclude with the hope that the Secretary of State will be able to answer our remaining questions with satisfaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u83	I've always listened with interest to your story, Mrs. Sent. I noticed that you didn't or hardly go into the novelle. I thought this was an important part of the second term tonight. Now several spokesmen, including myself, have concluded that the additional jobs based on the novelle zero point are zero. I'm sure that number will lead a life of its own. How do you look from the point of view of work... your party is rightly concerned about long-term unemployment... to the novelle when it comes to reducing unemployment? Is that why you're impressed or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u84	You can't be very impressed by 0.0% job growth. Last week we drew attention to the novelle in the first term, because we already knew what the novelle would look like. At that time we asked a number of questions about it, anticipating the treatment in the House of Representatives. So it has not escaped our attention. We have indicated that we do not believe that we should be right on this side that cannot be reached on the other side. These are all points that we raised in the previous period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u85	I am not so much concerned with political judgment. It is at the heart of what the Labour Party is and has always been. You just said "not impressive," but those words I put in your mouth a little bit; that is, of course, a little too easy. If you look at it with some distance, do you have to conclude that the novelle, and indeed the Tax Plan, leaves a lot to be desired in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u86	We conclude that job growth due to the novelle is minimal or zero. The forecast is that as a result of the Tax Plan, job growth is 35,000. If we had tackled the transferable tax rebate, job growth would have been much less. We regard women's economic independence as an important issue. In addition, we are assessing the plan not only on the basis of job growth but also on the basis of the fact that people who have had a very difficult time to spend more in recent years as a result of the crisis, at a time when economic growth is very fragile and confidence is gradually starting to grow and we consider it valuable to give this impetus to the economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u87	Finally, Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u88	I was just asking how you look at the number of additional job creation plans created by the novelle, so without all the stories that are now going around; the fact in itself. Is that what you're worried about or not? Is this what you expected or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u89	It's not my proposal to file that novel. I am particularly judging the biggest package, namely the tax package. In fact, I think the novelle is a minimal adjustment to that. Given the minimal adjustment, there is also minimal job growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'll be able and able to respond immediately. That's the case. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u91	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much to all the speakers. I have listened with pleasure, because this debate is really about something. It's not just about points and commas. Last week, I called on those present to continue to insist on reforms. That's exactly what happened. I have heard Mr Bakker on this, as have Mr Van Rij, Mr Ester, Mrs Vos, Mr Ten Hoeve, and I will no doubt forget a few more. Of course there is something of a missed opportunity. I've said that before. Of the people I have just mentioned, the parties of Mrs Vos and Mr Ester were at the table and there were too many seats empty last summer to speak of broad support for reform. I am sure that I said this last week, and I am sure that we will get out of that valley again. That is already well under way, by the way. Depending on the basis of the support and the progress of the discussions from next summer on, for example, the municipal tax area, there are opportunities for us to continue to work on reforms step by step. My belief is that this will happen one day, because Dutch politics has hesitated at times, but has never stopped necessary reforms in the end. That's what we're from. I said last time that it made us one of the most prosperous countries in the world. If we continue to do this properly, perhaps we will continue to do so. It is not only me or the cabinet but also the broad political spectrum and in particular this Chamber whether we are able to work step by step over the next few years on a few small but also a few major steps towards a better system. I will deal with a number of subjects in turn: older people, green, the parent-daughter directive, the Wbso and RDA, box 3, of course, and finally other and remaining amounts. If there are any motions left, I'll deal with them afterwards. If we have some time left, I will see if I can squeeze a small final word out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u92	Is that gonna work before 11:00?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u93	I'll speed up. I don't think I've ever let the President down in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u94	That's right, but just to be safe, I'm gonna say it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u95	That's a very good incentive. I'll start with the elderly. The elderly have improved considerably during the ten-year period that we saw last time; as Mrs Sent has just mentioned, unlike some other groups. Those are the facts. Now Mr Van Rooijen, like no other, has shown that the demand for different sets of figures makes it possible for different comparisons to be made over and over again. He has asked no less than 284 questions to keep looking at other figures. He's right, of course, that something else keeps coming out when you keep looking at different numbers. For example, he cites the minus 4.5% of the single AOW member with €10,000 supplementary pension. That's a fact. On the other hand, in exactly that same row, the plus 8% stands over the period 2004-2016 for the single person with only AOW. We both know what the difference is, Mr Van Rooijen and I. This is in a lagging indexing of pensions. We must not blame taxation for this. Taxation is not necessarily, a priori, in order to compensate for the lagging indexation. Even if wages are disappointing in a particular sector or if wage increases are disappointing, people are not automatically compensated for this. So there are all kinds of figures possible, but on balance older people have...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u96	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u97	...it's been going on in the last few decades...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u98	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u99	... slowly getting better and better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u100	Mr Van Rooijen, I am always waiting for the Secretary of State or the Minister who is speaking to finish his sentence. Then I'll give you an opportunity. You now have the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm not going back to all sorts of numbers. I would just like to point out that an answer given earlier by the Secretary of State showed that the purchasing power of everyone with a supplementary pension has fallen. That's right. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau came up with any justification last week; whatever that is, we will ask the Planning Bureau again in the coming months. The Secretary of State has now confirmed that in the period 2004 to 2016, the purchasing power of people with slightly more than the AOW population are fortunate that most of them have fallen by 1.5% to 4.5%. Then when the Secretary of State says it's because of the non-indexation, he acts like he's talking about an extraterrestrial event. Of course it's not. If the Secretary of State uses 5 billion to increase the purchasing power of the workers by 3% to 4%, he can also be expected to do something about improving purchasing power for the elderly, regardless of what caused the decline in purchasing power. I think the argument that it is because of the non-indexation of pensions, for which, by the way, the Cabinet is responsible through the ftk öfk öfk, 'financial future broken', which must be removed as soon as possible, is no reason to take care of the elderly again: not indexing and no tax reduction. That's double-packed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u102	I object to the word "grabbing." The indexation of pensions is not an extraterrestrial event, but at least an "outdoor" event. Unfortunately, I do not control the stock exchange rates. That was also the reason for the SP to declare immediately that it did not want to invest in the AEX. So I can't go along with that. However, it has been tried as well as possible to compensate the elderly for an important part. In those years, the indexation of pensions has been lagging behind that of contract wages. Nevertheless, according to the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, the elderly have emerged as one of the groups with the greatest increase in purchasing power during that period. The negative factor was the indexation of pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u103	I can follow the Secretary of State on this point as far as the years in the past are concerned. For now and in the future, however, it is true that government policy has an impact on the failure to continue indexation. Surely it is his cabinet that has come up with proposals to set the standards for pension funds so high that they can no longer index. Isn't that conscious policy of his cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u104	These standards, my predecessor, who, in my opinion, has just left here for an hour, have discussed them extensively, and they serve precisely to confront each generation with fair parameters and to prevent one generation from eating the cup of the other generation empty, or rather the other way around, because both sides can happen. Those standards are a genuine attempt to prevent that from happening. However, while Mr Köhler is talking about the future...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u105	It's always good to talk about the future. I knew the arguments of the cabinet, but that does not change the fact that these cabinet proposals, with arguments which we do not share, make it even more difficult for pension funds to index. This applies not only to the generation that now has a pension, but also to the generation that is now building up a pension. It's too restrictive a standard for both. I am talking about it because the Secretary of State said that the failure to index cannot be blamed on the cabinet. I blame the cabinet for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u106	We can, of course, make the future of pension funds more favourable than is actually allowed, and then allow one generation to empty the pension fund at the expense of the other. The opposite would be equally annoying. You want to try to give each generation what that generation is entitled to in view of the real prospects for the future. This is an issue which my colleague has explained in detail, very frequently and in various debates. I do not think that we should discuss this again in the context of the Tax Plan. If we deal here with everything with which taxation has any relationship, we can talk here for a whole week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u107	You objected to the term "packing." I'll leave that on your account. You're talking about "looting." I object to that term again. You used that word when you said the ftk would be there to prevent the elderly from "looting" the pot. The elderly have not received indexation for seven years and they will not get indexation in the next ten years either. I therefore object to the existence of'slips'. You keep saying that pensioners are the only ones who have improved because it is in a booklet somewhere, I have to say: a book of the Social and Cultural Planning Office. You yourself admitted this evening that for those who have more than one AOW, luckily, most of them are not about purchasing power progress but about a sharp fall in purchasing power. Finally, if, fortunately, the workers, in addition to the large tax reduction, we also give our children a large increase in wages, such as the 6% in the police cao, then on the one hand it is 'gross increase and net increase' and, on the other hand, 'no gross increase and net reduction'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u108	I've only used the word "looted" in combination with the word "not." Mr Van Rooijen should like that. Furthermore, we are allowed to take out all kinds of different groups. Mr Van Rooijen is taking out the -4.5% group. Right in the cell above there is an +8% group. For example, there are different rates for different groups of older people. However, the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau is not just any body that has just presented a booklet on this subject. It's a respectable institution. That has calculated that it is on average 3%. It doesn't suit me to distance myself from this chair. However, Mr Van Rooijen is in a different position. It may take any position it considers appropriate. I would also like to talk about the future and that now. I have heard a lot of objections from Mr Van Rooijen which make it clear to me why he should have voted against tax plans last year and the year before, and perhaps even the year before. However, I have still not heard a good argument as to why, in the first year of the improvement of a lot for the elderly in relation to the basic path, he should turn against it. That improvement, in Mr Van Rooij's view, should be a bright spot. I take as an example his motion on the elderly discount, which calls for recovery. Interestingly enough, the elderly discount compared to the 2015 level, so from the level before anything happened to the elderly discount, has already been restored. In the 2015 Tax Plan, 195 million went down structurally. In the Tax Plan that we are discussing now, which is now before us, 195 million will be added structurally from 2017. The full structural decline has been compensated and, in addition, for 2016, an additional 200 million will be added occasionally. That's what happens. I find it difficult to regret that when you speak on behalf of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u109	I think -200 and +200 is 0, as you said. Furthermore, you must deduct from the 220 euros which you then call "one time" the 83 euros that would be deducted from the previous tax plan. So it's net but 140 euros in 2016. In 2017, apart from the motion, the elderly simply go back 100 euros. You calculated tonight that that is 0.5% decrease in purchasing power in 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u110	Let me turn to the questions that Mr Van Rooijen has put concerning equal treatment, the principle of standing and so on. Mr Van Rooijen pointed out the unequal treatment of older people and workers. It's not really between the elderly and the workers. It's actually between workers and non-working people. I hinted at that last time. To the extent that older people are employed, they have rights to work. In so far as non-parents do not work, they are also not entitled to the schemes for workers. If a young person doesn't work, he doesn't get a job discount. And when an older person works, he also gets the employment discount in addition to the older person's discount. This happens in proportion to the rate he pays in the first disc. It is therefore an equal treatment for equal cases, but that may mean different treatment for unequal cases. The principle of carrying capacity is also... Oh, I think Mr Van Rooijen is not quite ready on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u111	Very briefly. You're talking about working AOWs. I'm glad they're still here. Due to the later AOW-age, we also need to keep that as much as possible, in order to avoid the AOW-hole. But you also know AOW workers among workers, saying that there is no discrimination or difference. I am talking about the non-working AOW, who is in a very poor structural tax regime because he does not share in the 5 billion. So you shouldn't arrive with a few working AOWs. I'm talking about the non-working AOWs, because they're almost all of them. We shouldn't talk past each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u112	I have just tried to say that it is precisely this Tax Plan that allows the elderly to communicate in the 5 billion, both structurally and occasionally, but I am not very fond of the stylish repetition myself, so I should not repeat that argument either. I come to the principle of capacity. The system is, of course, modelled on the principle of carrying capacity, with the strongest shoulders bearing the most heavy loads. I think that a large part of this Chamber might even think that this has happened too much. There will be few international comparisons in which the Netherlands is accused of not having done justice to the principle of carrying capacity. We have a progressive tariff structure. We have all kinds of tax rebates, which are relatively beneficial for lower incomes, but the welfare principle also plays a role, because taxation distorts. It doesn't sound elegant, but taxation inhibits producers in producing, inhibits consumers in consuming, inhibits investors in investing and drives capital abroad. Taxation distort and it is good to minimise these disruptive effects on the economy as much as possible. We do this by reducing working hours, because employment rates are worth a lot on an individual level, emancipatory, but also simply for building prosperity and making it possible for a pleasant retirement provision. We also do this through the IACK, which allows people with young children to stay at work as much as possible. The welfare principle plays an important role in this. In addition, of course, purchasing power repair has also been done, including the 5 billion, which goes beyond these principles, but is merely intended to ensure that people do not fall socially through the ice and somehow end up on the wrong side of a division. Then the formal part. I have just said something about Mr Van Rij and Mr Van Rooijen's motion on letter L. I must advise against this, because in fact, in a structural sense, as of 2015, this would be an increase in the elderly discount. This is a. not in line with the policy of gradually aligning the tax arrangements for older people with their much improved position, both in income and in wealth, and b. not in line with the government's desire to create as many workers as possible with this package.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u113	Very briefly. I understand that the Secretary of State actually has considerable objections to any increase in an elderly discount. That's what he just said, while you can do it for the labor discount. I would ask the Secretary of State to answer my question about Article 10 of the Paying Tax Act. It says: "Wage is all that is enjoyed by an employment or a former employment." I explained that there is no basis in the law for setting an age limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u114	This would mean that the Council of State should have had serious objections to the tax plans for some decades, but the Council did not. For the time being, I would prefer to follow the judgment of the Council of State rather than now, one evening at the end of this process, to note that we are actually taxing fundamentally wrong taxes all these years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u115	You got that right. I agree, and so do my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u116	Mr Van Rooijen was very clear in that, also last time. I'm sure I'll give him that. The second point I would like to address briefly is greening. Mrs Vos, in particular, was concerned about this. It asks, for example, whether there is some room in the energy load for large consumers. Are we gonna close a door over there? I sent a letter to the House of Representatives at the request of the GroenLinks Group in the House of Representatives. That letter said, if I have to summarize it a little bit domestically, that that was not impossible but that it was extremely careful, because, before you know it, you're creating unequal playing fields. And an uneven playing field is not only bad for our economy, it also means that targeted environmental impacts simply leak out. Because industries are moving to countries where they are treated differently, it could happen that the environmental impact is ultimately zero, but we are suffering from it economically. That's what that letter says. For example, that letter says that if you move from electricity to gas, you have to pay attention or certain large consumers get into trouble. The sectors currently exempted were also identified in that letter as not unproblematic. This is a situation where there was already an uneven playing field, but there would certainly be a problem with an even heavier burden on large consumers. Maybe that's already there. As far as the coal tax is concerned, I have already said that the cabinet does not consider it justified to actually break the energy agreement at this stage. There are now a lot of social parties really doing a lot of work together to put their shoulders under that agreement. Perhaps there are things that you would rather not have had in that agreement afterwards, but that is a bit inherent in such a broad agreement. To break it open for that, and then at this stage, the cabinet doesn't seem wise. I am very sensitive to Mrs Vos' call for the 100 million which is now available on occasion to be targeted. But that is precisely why I am not knocking the solutions out of my sleeve. I know that different models and intermediate variants are being discussed, but I really don't want to rattle that off right now. I think it's important to focus on that. They're just gonna be studying on that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u117	Of course, we are extremely curious about that, but I know the style of the Secretary of State in that sense, so I await with interest. By the way, more parties will do that, especially D66. I have one more question about the large consumer tax, because it seems a bit like the Secretary of State is closing the door there. There's hardly anything in there. After Paris, can it not help to give greater companies, which can really achieve much more in terms of energy saving, a boost in the right direction? Of course, you have to do that step-by-step. Isn't that something you can talk about? And will the Secretary of State at least look at how we can jointly take steps in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u118	The previous letter does not close the door, but says that the margins are small. However, this letter also says that it also depends, of course, on our neighbours' policies, and that this needs to be looked at at at European level. Doors are not thrown close in that previous letter, but it is said that it depends on a number of things and that it is indeed very narrow margins at the moment. I think that answers Mrs Vos' question. Yes, it is true that if you move between gas and electricity at an energy load, the renewable electricity generator, so the solar cell, will benefit less from that again. To be honest, the proposal for that slide came from the corner of many of the parties who signed the Energy Agreement. It was considered to be beneficial on balance, but I admit that if I press here, something will rise there as well. There are always counter-effects. I have also received serious concerns of a very different nature from the CDA about the measure. This concerns a number of large consumers in the gas/electricity slide. So we see that we are in a situation that is so crystallized that if you turn one button, there are always two or three disadvantages to come up with. I recognize this disadvantage as equestrian. The same applies to the disadvantage of the CDA. I think, however, that the measures that remain are all measures that will have a spot or a scratch here and there, because they all have disadvantages. We have to live with that. We must try to find a line in the political constellation, but also in the balance between these things. Mr Van Rij has twice made a serious contribution to the Mother-daughter directive. He also did so in writing. For example, he argues that hybrid loans are not only made in an intercompany context, but also between third parties. I could say that I do not think the Mother-Subsidiary Directive is at all about third parties. The directive does not see that. However, I do not know whether that is the most relevant objection. On the point that, according to Mr Van Rij, Germany does not implement the same legislation, we hear other things from Germany. But I'm gonna have to take a break from this. Mr Van Rij is not the first to be the best, and certainly not the second or the third. I therefore believe in his words. The department's specialists are convinced that this is a good thing. At the same time, more than once, Mr Van Rij has given me extremely sensible wake-up calls. So I want to see if we can do something about this in a different way. Here's what I want to do. All Member States must implement this. It could be that the Netherlands is putting a head on top of it, suggesting that you want or are more brave than the directive. At the same time, Mr Van Rij says that we may not be as good as we are, because we may be disproportionate. That is precisely what the Commission must punish. My first proposal to Mr Van Rij is that I ask the Commission whether the Dutch implementation is proportionate. I would ask Mr Moscovici, with whom I will be working a great deal in the next six months. I can also ask him to take a broad look at the major differences in implementation between countries. On that basis, we should be able to see whether we are doing something that is not entirely intended, however much we are now convinced that it is. Secondly, I would like to offer him that I will ask the Tax Administration to keep track of the cases in the preliminary consultation against insoluble cases. These could be organisations that, at some point in their own group in the European context, see that they inevitably face double charges as a result of the Dutch choice for implementation. We need to know that. I would like to propose to Mr Van Rij that he ask the Tax Office. Based on these two things, I want to send a letter in 2016. Once again, Mr Van Rij has raised this point more than once. I want to take that very seriously. I also think it is possible for me to come to other insights than what I have come to now. It hasn't happened yet, but I want to open up to it. Then I'd like to report that in a letter to this Chamber. That's the proposal I'd like to make him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u119	Thank you for that answer. I must also stress that my colleague Van de Ven of the VVD also made this point in the written questions. That honor belongs to him, too. I very much appreciate the answer; let me start with that. This isn't about a well-nuke game. I said that these hybrid loans also occurred with third parties because the Secretary of State said last week that this was mainly about intercompany, but let us rise above that. I very much appreciate that the Secretary of State is doing the same. I heard two things. If, in practice, it appears that there are double charges after implementation as proposed, companies will have to report this to the Tax Administration. Then the Secretary of State is prepared to look at it, because it is not a desired effect. I also appreciate the other offer. The Secretary of State says that, as we stand here, we do not know how the other EU Member States have implemented this directive at the moment. I'm right about that. If we speak, there may be a similar kind of debate in other Chambers in other parliaments in the EU. These are two commitments that the CDA Group can live with, especially if the Secretary of State comes back to them in a letter. I should also like to look at my colleague from the VVD Group. He raises his hand. I assume that's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u120	He just looked very angry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u121	He also raises his thumb. We can both live with this. Finally, let this also be an institution and attitude that we will also apply to subsequent draft directives and directives which are still coming to the Netherlands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u122	I think many people in this Chamber have already noticed, but I would like to state that the Ministry of Finance, but also the Secretary of State for Finance, is not always right in all tax matters. So it is very productive to listen very carefully to things that could also be true and to look seriously at them. I would very much like to do that. Eventually, it'll make the world better. The Wbso is a recurring discussion. Mr Backer and Mrs Sent spoke about it. I understand Mrs Sent's reasoning. There was a ceiling and it made no sense for parties to request anything above that ceiling. Then how can you know there's no latent potential above that ceiling? For the sake of last week's debate, I had to give some thought to Mr Kamp's arrangement. The exporter not only points to the costs and expenses covered by the RDA and the Wbso, but also to the other costs. So he makes an integral image, looks at what might come out of it and then applies the ceiling. By the way, there is no ceiling in the RDA, but in the Wbso there is. Thus, the exporter knows not only the allocation, but also the extent of the problem of cashing, or in other words the latent potential. That can be taken into account by the performer in determining how this will go. I have heard Mr Kamp promise that he will see how this is going and take action if it is not. Then I automatically come to Mr Backer's question. If I translate it a little bit domestic, he says we shouldn't compensate but fix it if it doesn't work. He doesn't want us to push budgets, he wants us to fix the system, whether by other discs, ceilings or whatever. I should like to leave that to the Minister for Economic Affairs in all modesty. I would like to give him the suggestion, but first of all I would like to point out the commitment he has made. He will look into how things are going and report whether or not what the performer is thinking is actually going to happen. Then we can then talk in all forms of instances and moments about how a possible failure of the system in one form or another should be repaired or compensated. In any case, I will give this to Mr Kamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u123	I have already noticed a shadow from Mr Kamp behind the Secretary of State. Can we solve this shadow effect practically like this? Does the Minister for Economic Affairs also inform this Chamber if he reaches a conclusion? Then the Secretary of State doesn't necessarily have to be in there. In any case, it would be nice if his conclusion reached this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u124	That is a request that I am very happy to accept. Thank you! Now I'm gonna go to box three. A lot has been said about that. Let me take a look at what I'm going to say and see if that's entirely fair. All kinds of questions have been asked. Mr Van Rij has given calculation examples of 1.65%. That's only from a million dollars. You must have a lot in box 3, if you want to reach 1.65 on average; strictly infinitely, but that would be a faint answer. I'm gonna take a look at the real concerns. In his motion, Mr Van Rij asked the government to come forward with a new proposal, at the latest in the spring note, which included the alternatives to a simpler and more advantageous temporary regime for small savers. If you read that like that, you might ask yourself: who's against simple, who's against cheaper, who's against new at all? Well, pretty much everyone, actually, but not in this room. Yet, in a sense, I think this is a misconception of the matter. Mr Van Rij also says that we can come to our senses directly in the new year. Yes, but right in the new year, I wanted to continue on the path of searching for a system and developing a system that actually charges returns. Mr Van Rij must assume from me that it is much more complex in substance and certainly politically than 'do us some alternatives'. Mr Van Rij and the CDA have also come up against this complexity in a broader context, because Mr Van Rij's earlier suggestion, for example, to double the duty-free rate and to compensate for this by dropping the free foot above the million, is to give away 800 million and to recover a limited number of millions. Many speakers have a sense of justice in solutions that are far less profitable. That is because the property tax, perhaps together with the inheritance tax, feels very unfair to many Dutch people. Before I entered this profession and could admit it earlier, I suffered from it myself. I have to tell you the truth. This feels unfair to a lot of Dutch people. People tend to find things more righteous as less is collected. But that automatically means, as sympathetic as it all sounds, that more burdens on labour are being collected. Those burdens will have to be increased, because you cannot reduce anything, do nothing about spending, and do not increase anything else. This means that, in the end, this often amounts to the burden on labour, and we do not want that either. With this reasoning and reasoning, I would like to advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u125	I don't quite follow the Secretary of State, to be honest. My point is that the current system of box 3 is a stable 4 billion. That is 0.6% of gross national product over a long series of years. That was one of the arguments to come up with box 3. Materially it's just a capital tax, of course not formally. What the Secretary of State is about to propose will ensure that the 37,000 people who are not an infinite group who have 1 million or more and are now able to live well with 1,2%, will not be able to live with 1,65%. I have tried to do so once again. After all, it is an increase of 37.5%. I agree with the Secretary of State that we should conduct an investigation, as Mr Backer of D66 also argued, in order to tax real returns in box 3. However, the Secretary of State does not at all indicate which direction he wants to go. Does he want a capital gain tax? When I read Annex 1 to the Tax Plan, the answer to that question is no. Does the Secretary of State want a wealth distribution? We don't know. In short, we are about to have a temporary situation. In this temporary situation, the position of the small saver deteriorates in that he still intuits his ability. I tried to argue that in the debate with Mr Köhler. I say it carefully, because Mr Köhler is convinced of his own right, without any argument. No, that's a joke. Secondly, the millionaires I just mentioned will go to box 2. In other words, what does the Secretary of State want? Is the Secretary of State coming up with a proposal in March that he will tax real returns? And how does he do that? Or is the Secretary of State prepared to think with us to amend his own, in our view bad, proposal for the temporary situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u126	The CDA's objections have a certain development. The first objection was that it would be very complex, but when it wasn't complex, it was very unfair. And when others thought it could be called fair, it has become avoidance. I take avoidance very seriously. That is why we have put very sensible people on it who spend their lives doing nothing but recognizing avoidance. But in earlier stages, for example in the brainstorming atmosphere in the other Chamber, it has been said that you could then, for example, fall back on a progressive rate. Yeah, you know, that creates the same avoidance issues. All in all, I think we may not even have the main argument here. To be honest, I think Mr Van Rij is making it a little too simple in his motion. In my view, we agree on the final objective. The ultimate goal, the final picture, is a tax on real returns. There are a lot of groups for that. I have admitted in the House of Representatives: not explained here that it is likely to result in a sensible mixture of a capital gain and a capital increase tax and some flat-rate elements. This must be done in such a way that we do not fall into the trap of 2001. At that time there were all kinds of arbitration possibilities with power shifts just before the measuring date and shortly afterwards again. I think it's in there. It is true that we do not yet have the last word on this, because that too is something that the abuse detectors must look very closely at. They always find things like: when you do this, it is possible for someone to do that and so and then he gets away with it. All this is not very easy, but it is now being studied very seriously. I promised last year's Tax Plan that I'd give you some sort of interim report on that. These should then be the first leading thoughts on the lines along which a new genuine efficiency-based box 3 system should be built. It should also include what further steps need to be taken to make this feasible, because all our chain partners must participate. Banks and investment firms should eventually go along with that reporting in order to allow for a pre-filled declaration. That is a great relief for so many millions of Dutch people. I explained that here. This means that from 1 January I will certainly be working very hard, but with the system as it should become the ultimate, and not with intermediate wishes which are constantly shifting and to a large extent differing in political terms among the Members present here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u127	A brief interruption on this point, Mr Van Rij.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u128	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I will be very brief. I look the Secretary of State right in his eyes, but I stumble upon an incredible smokescreen. It is not clear to me which way he wants to go. I'm worried. I am looking at Mr Backer as well as Mr Köhler and wonder whether the Bashir/Van Weyenberg motion adopted in the House of Representatives will indeed lead to a plan that will be submitted in 2017 and that will actually enter into force on 1 January 2018. I don't believe any of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u129	That's no secret at all. On that motion I said that I fully support the direction and that I consider the motion to be superfluous in that respect. I also said that the 2018 date mentioned in the debate is very probably not feasible, because the chain partners do not keep up with it. The petitioner said he wasn't hammering on that. The motion was then put to the vote without this date being targeted. I can explain that it is not feasible. That is not a new fact at all. In that sense, it is also politically attractive that this is the line that there are many things on which the parties in the political spectrum disagree, when it comes to box 3, but not about the final picture. A tax based on the yield actually achieved is an acceptable final picture for many parties. That is a resounding perspective, because there are enough things in taxation that we do not agree on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u130	I have a practical, clear question: when does the Secretary of State foresee this interim report?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u131	I made a commitment to next year's tax plan. Then we'll know more. Then there's more substance to talk about the content. Then there is something to say about implementation and feasibility. That is perhaps also a particular point of interest for this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u132	I would ask everyone to intervene as briefly as possible and at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u133	Mr. Chairman. I would like to take this opportunity to say that our group has every confidence in the Secretary of State on this point. He said in the House of Representatives that he would not be able to meet that date in all aspects, but that he would go as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u134	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u135	That's what we're gonna hold him to, and we're gonna rely on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u136	Following on from what the Secretary of State has just said and what is of a high level of reality, is it so strange that Mr Van Rij, knowing that next year the tax plan will come into sight, but that the introduction may or may not be after 2018, asks in his motion to look at a revision in that bridge period next year? That seems to me to be quite realistic in the realism shown by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u137	I just went into that. With all due respect, it's the same question again. I think that the energy should be in the development of a system that has broad support and that is based on the real efficiency. We must not waste our time on interim, superficially quick-thinking alternatives which will prove to be very resilient in practice. Over the past year, a huge variety of box 3 solutions has been considered. Many of them do not charge around, are impossible, extremely prone to fraud or a disaster for the Tax Administration. I'll see what questions I haven't answered. Mr Van Rij has asked a question about the Schalk motion, but I shall deal with it in a moment. Mr Ester's motion will also be discussed. Mrs Vos has asked why we are extending the third disc. She surprised me with the precision with which she then gave all the answers herself. The only argument that has not yet been mentioned is that this has to do with the complete reduction of the general tax discount for that same group, so you're giving away something, but you're also taking something away. That needs to be balanced. Eventually, there is a limited increase in purchasing power for higher incomes, albeit within the group of workers, within the sine qua non of a balanced income ratio. The workers at the bottom get more percentage. All in all, this was considered to be a good balance between a balanced income ratio and the incentive to work, through lower labour costs. In addition, not only workers were looked at. Apart from these objectives, there has also been significant purchasing power repair, including for the non-employed and for the elderly. Anyway, I've already said that, and I won't speak provocatively. Along that line, that's what happened. What we should also keep in mind is something that we did not send directly, but which is not unimportant. If you lower the burden on labour at the bottom, you get mainly profits in terms of the number of jobs. If you do that at the top, it contributes more to economic growth. It's gonna take a mix of those two. The top also provides work for the bottom. Many CPB notes have been published on this subject. Innovation or a huge economic activity of highly educated people, a kind of creative class, is ultimately also the engine for employment at the bottom. In that balance, this is done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u138	When the Secretary of State has finished his remarks on the balance of income, I would like to ask him to respond to the imbalance I have observed between the different income groups, regardless of the source of their income. The last document, the note following the report on the novelle, shows on page 5 Table 2 on the median purchasing power development in 2016. That is after the Tax Plan, but including the purchasing power repair for the elderly and those with benefits. He writes: about all these types of income measured, the low household income, less than €35,000, is up by 0.7%, that is €130, I say, and the high income, more than €70,000 per year plus 2%, so that's €1,000. Why does he keep calling that balanced?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u139	I believe that 42 tables have been provided in this debate, but I know what Mr Köhler is talking about. The answer to the question why we consider it balanced is as follows. We have made a distinction, even if it is not embraced by everyone, but we have done so, between workers and non-workers. Within the workforce, the highest percentages do indeed go to the lowest incomes. Mr Köhler was right to point out the purchasing power figures for income groups. In addition, workers and non-workers come together. Many of the non-working people arrive in the lower group and those who lengthen it with lower percentages. It has been chosen to repair to a zero level, but not in all cases for the same level of pay as for workers. That's a choice; that's true. Therefore, this mixing group finally reached a lower percentage at the bottom. When you disintegrate that again into the workers and the non-working, you can see the image I gave at the beginning of my speech. That's been a choice, too. I understand from Mr Köhler some time ago that he would certainly make that choice differently, and I understand that in his case. Mrs Vos asked a question about municipal taxes. I think I should reassure her without being able to be very specific. Mrs Vos asked whether what I said about no income effects means that it is an equal amount for every citizen. The choice of the base is still open, but the technique is not to look at a load isolated and then to see if you're doing something income neutral or that you're leveling or de-leveling. This is not the way a tax system works and we should not do it that way. You enter a tax or you expand a municipal tax area. That's on some basis. At system level, income effects are then secured. For example, progressivity must be guaranteed at system level and not at the level of one measure. This means that we never talk about a municipal tax alone, but always about a municipal tax with corresponding measures, for example in the sphere of income tax. The argument that this still has to be done within that peripheral condition of balanced income relationships concerns the system as a whole, including a possible municipal tax area to be introduced. The remark that there should be no income policy relates, for example, to the fact that it may be attractive for municipalities to unilaterally avert certain tax increases to small groups or non-voters. Let me give an example of the first. They could be homeowners, for example. There are big cities, I know one up close, in which the homeowners certainly make up less than half of the electorate. Well, then maybe it's attractive to tax a little bit there. You may think so, but that's not the point. The second thing you can think about is getting it from the entrepreneurs because they don't vote. That too is not the intention of the cabinet to create that incentive. The aim is to make municipal elections more contentful and to offer municipalities a greater choice. Whether they are going to tax less or more, they must fight in their election struggle and their governance. The intention is not to provoke these kinds of secondary effects at local level. There are explicitly those at national level. There is also a tax system. Shifts are conceivable. That is all possible, but the cabinet has not chosen to do so again at municipal level. Nor is that the use of these municipal taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u140	It is, of course, difficult, precisely because municipalities will be given the freedom to do so. Each city council will think differently again, and that leads to different systems. Then, of course, it becomes complicated how the national income tax system could possibly add to that, because in one municipality it will work out differently than in the other. In this sense, I find it difficult to say that it should never be income policy. That can also go exactly the wrong way and perhaps it is sometimes necessary to take account of the different incomes in your municipality and therefore to look at how taxes in your municipality also affect those different incomes. I would be sorry if the cabinet went so far as to say that it should not be allowed at all. Anyway, we will have that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u141	That discussion is about to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u142	Let's get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u143	That discussion is going to come, but the thought is that you have to set irrevocable limits to the extent to which, if you want to safeguard balanced income relationships at national level, you want to compensate again or.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is also the consequence of taking responsibility for income relationships. It means that you have to keep it a little under control and that you don't allow others to radically reverse that image, because then you don't guarantee those income relationships anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u144	Mr Van Rooijen, briefly!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u145	I just wanted to talk about taxation at the state level, because that is what we are talking about here, at least now. In the letter I read about 4 billion reductions in income tax through taxes on labour. So that's not for the people who don't work anymore, the AOWs. This, of course, also has major purchasing power implications. Will the Secretary of State continue to systematically exclude the non-employed from tax relief? That is a very fundamental question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u146	First of all, I would like to comment on the first two points, because it is pertinently incorrect that the non-working people of the 5 billion have been cut off. In all kinds of forms, there has been purchasing power repair. In fact, for 2016, the older people are more than proportional to the basic path. Thus, systematic allocation to workers is not the case. I agree with the statement that, even if a municipal tax area is introduced, balanced purchasing power developments will be taken into account. That applies to all groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u147	A brief reaction, Mr Van Rooijen, and then this item is closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u148	I understand. The word'systematic' referred to the remark I made earlier, namely that structuralally the non-employed are excluded from the tax reduction. That's what I said. I know that a one-time repair has indeed been done, but older people are not only there for repair. They also have structural rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u149	That's right. This is why the 2017 Tax Plan has a total of 200 million structuralally repaired and in such a way that the elderly discount is back to its 2015 level. Mr Backer indicated that he needed to talk about capital taxes more fundamentally. This could be done, for example, if we had a more detailed explanation next year as to what a box 3 system might look like and what the possible avoidance of us is asking for. In that context, we could have that discussion. He also considered it desirable to have legislative proposals earlier. That's what he said, but I think he meant he wanted to have the discussion earlier. The legislative proposals for the Tax Plan are, of course, consistent with the Millions Note, so I think he means that the discussion should be planned earlier. We're just puzzled about how to do that. We can also see that a great deal is being asked of Parliament here. I am also in a constant sensation of haste here, and that does not always help the discussion and does not always improve the humours. So we are still looking for the way in which such sounds can be done right. As soon as I find something, I'll get back to you on that. We're jigsawing about that internally. Mr Ten Hoeve asked for the inheritance tax to be included in further reforms. Other parties have also requested this. Nor do I think that we should say that the inheritance tax should be excluded from reform. He's asking if we can get back to work. I have just said something about this. The ambition has been there since Prinsjesdag 2014 and the directional plans have been there since this summer. We're gonna have to live with things like that always going step-by-step. It will not be up to me; I prefer big than small steps, but we have to hold on to each other and you can see how difficult that is if the amount of reform is not overwhelming. His plea for simplicity I turn out and hang on the wall. I think I have addressed his questions about box 3 in the sense that it will probably amount to some form of hybrid systems. He can call me on that next year. Mr Schalk asked if the promised letter would also come to the Upper Chamber. I would like to make a commitment to this. That letter will be around the summer and I'll make sure she goes to both chambers. He asks me if I am going to go into options to reduce the differences. I think that's a rather wondrous figure. He actually invites the cabinet to go into the 50 ways to undo its own cabinet policy. When I was a little boy you had the song "50 ways to leave your lover." This looks a bit like it. I do not think we should do this, but I would like to go along with another commitment that Mr Schalk is asking, namely whether I am prepared to continue constructively and to do so in the first months of next year. The answer to that is yes. I'd very much like to be willing to do that. A small lesson from this phase of the Tax Plan is that tax plans are also a little out of touch with the processical and political logic of recent years. The fact that the cabinet is thinking about what is considered to be a reasonable middle and sends it to the Chamber has not always helped. This is becoming more and more difficult, and we have to establish this with each other. In any case, I had put some homework on my mind to start with the 2017 Tax Plan in the first months of next year and to go around sounding around to see how the different things are being thought about, as far as I don't already know, but there too can be done in depth. In this context, I will report to Mr Schalk's party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u150	It's great you're gonna check in. Can I also know on what time it will be? If the letter is there by summer, we know that there are in fact long lines to the Tax Plan and that might be a little too late. Can you give us a more specific indication at what point we are beginning to speak?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u151	I suggested something about it. I have planned my period of intensive caffeine intake for the first three months of the following year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u152	Thank you for this offer. I'll make sure the coffee's ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u153	Mr Van Rooijen, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u154	Can you promise that you will also look at the Nagel motion, which has been adopted here, with speed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u155	Look, it's not that. I looked at her. I note, however, that the majorities in one Chamber are not always the majorities in the other Chamber. It's not looking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u156	Two motions have been passed. I wouldn't want you to make a difference between two motions by looking at one and thinking about the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u157	I believe that Mr Van Rooijen asked for a look and Mr Schalk was thinking. I also want to promise, think and watch it symmetrically in the opposite direction. Mr Schalk says that I have said that he has hit the subject. I think so, too. He's staged his theme in a very visible way. That does not mean that the cabinet shares its objections. In the General Financial Reviews I said that I have to admit that the examples are sanding here and there. That's how far I've gone. I congratulated him on the arrangement of the subject, but I did not automatically say that I supported his objections. I did say that I understand his objections. He argued that this should be taken into account in the interpretation of the models. I had to think about it while he argued it. Then he told me to do it with the heart, too. I'm one of those people who thinks you shouldn't do that too much with the heart, because all our hearts point a different direction. So that doesn't pay much. You don't care much about my heart. I always try to think logically from the public interest, while taking on board the various objections. If my heart suddenly has to do it all, it's not enough for all of us. It doesn't do us much good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u158	Indeed, I will not ask you for your heart anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u159	It's there, but it's not public property.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u160	Luckily, I hope it works well for the time being. I return to what I wish to argue. When there is a model, this can focus, for example, only on the economic value of paid employment. Caring or caring for children also has a value, an intrinsic value. This may be very difficult to measure, but there are possibilities to measure that. We do the same with the environment, which also gets value in a certain way. Would it be possible that, in addition to paid employment alone, the CPB also includes other aspects in the valuation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u161	I don't think the models are for that. The value we attach to the results of these models is what you have been hired for. You are the ones who value those outcomes. You also attach different values to this. What one finds pleasant about income redistribution, the other finds a negative aspect. The value one attaches to paid work because it is not only work, but also participation or emancipation, is of interest to the other in a very different way or not. I don't have to start taking things like this. The cabinet has views on this; parties have views on it. It would be strange for me to pretend that my views should be included in a model and not Mr Schalk's. That would be weird. These debates serve to see who attaches what value to them. Those models shouldn't do that for us, and they can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u162	Briefly, Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u163	This last speech by the Secretary of State fits very well with that of the director of the CPB, as it was in the Reformatorisch Dagblad last Saturday. She indicated that these models are ultimately mainly technical and not moral. We shall have to add that morality ourselves. We will be very happy to pursue this debate with the Secretary of State, and with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u164	I would like to support Mr Schalk, surprisingly perhaps, in a plea for a broader concept of prosperity. That's what it's all about in the end. The models look at how we can achieve the highest possible economic growth, while we know that growth is only indirectly related to well-being. Does the Secretary of State support initiatives that are already underway to achieve a broader concept of prosperity and to use it as an inspiration for our policies? I am referring not only to initiatives from the Central Planning Bureau, but also to initiatives in cooperation with other institutes, such as the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u165	There's always that understanding here and there. Something technocratic like, for example, a social cost-benefit analysis contains a lot of monetarized parts that do not fall into what we will call economic growth. The idea that the government would only be driven by economic growth is total nonsense. I believe that in 98% of the debates there is no economic growth and that we talk about things that never happen in an economic growth state in all kinds of other ways, from morality to conviction. The value attached to different issues is determined by politicians and not by model makers. Something that can be monetarianized, such as a loss of time, may be just yet, but it is difficult to determine what participation is worth or economic independence. The value Mrs Sent attaches to economic independence is in line with the value I attach to it, but there will be enough Members who think otherwise. Then there were some questions from Mrs Sent. She noted that 2017 was too late for the Budget Space Study Group. I must have caused confusion, because 2017 is not the date either. That study group will report directly to the public in 2016, probably mid-year. The cabinet isn't gonna be nesting on an egg for a while. I've caused confusion. I agree with her that 2017 is late. So it'll be sooner. Mrs Sent asks me to pay attention to the difference between reality and the perception of the various governments' share of the total revenue from taxes and premiums. It refers not only to the perceived relationship, but also implicitly to the visibility of that tax. Something that is deducted from your salary before you receive the salary is less visible than something for which you get an acceptance giro card on the bus. Many people are unsuspecting about the sometimes many tens of thousands of euros they pay to pay taxes and can become white hot from an attack they get from the municipality. We must pay attention to the important dimension of visibility, which goes beyond the acceptance giro card or the perception between those two amounts. In general, visibility plays a major role. I say to her that this visibility will be taken into account in the reflections later next year. That is very important. I'll tell you there are different currents. There are people who say: I like municipal taxation, but let it be as invisible as possible. Others say: a municipal tax area only has a function and a role and can only be defended if it is visible. It is precisely because these currents exist that we will pay attention to them. Perhaps Mrs. Sent already wants to convert to one of the two currents?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u166	Short, Mrs. Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u167	I would particularly like to draw attention to the transition from the current situation to the new one. I can imagine that visibility is desirable, also from the perspective of democratic legitimacy. At the same time, it is important that there is now a lot of invisible and that there is a dependence. The transition must therefore be adequately supervised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u168	Agreed. I can see that. I think I'm basically through the questions. I tried to be that for elves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u169	You said at some point that you would come back to the Ester motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u170	I haven't run out of questions yet. What a bluff I am. You're absolutely right. There are two things I haven't done yet. Mr Ester asked the government, through his motion, to ask the CPB to process the most up-to-date data. As a result of the previous questions, we have understood ourselves with the CPB. That claims or, rather, insists that involuntary long-term unemployment may be similar to that observed in the 2006-2009 measurement period. In fact, the CPB believes that the use of the most up-to-date data would deteriorate the model. If I respond to the request, I suggest that I insist on a model change from a political point of view. The CPB objects to this on substantive grounds, whether or not it is right. I don't want to go in there. I don't want to influence the CPB in any way administratively or politically. I'd like to question the CPB, but don't put any pressure on it to come to any other conclusions. That would be very wrong. I believe that the cabinet should really not interfere with the final judgments of the CPB. That's also the power of the CPB.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u171	I shared that with you in detail last week. I fully support you in that. It's just not about other models, it's just about updating the data used for those models. As far as I'm concerned, the models don't have to change a millimeter. It's just a matter of using the most recent data. That's all I'm asking for in my motion, no more, no less.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u172	There is no lack of clarity about this, but whether it is a data change or a model change, it is not about the design of the model, but about the dates and thus also about the model outcomes. I would not urge the CPB to use other datasets from the cabinet in one way or another. I agree with Mr Ester that the cabinet can ask the CPB about this. Once the CPB's answer and final judgment are there, I have to take a small step back and let the CPB do the work in which it is so good, among other things be very critical of the cabinet. That really needs to go on. All in all, I believe that we have now debated the Tax Plan for 42 hours. In fact, I have listened with great fascination and admiration to the fundamental nature of this debate, while in the media it is sometimes dismissed as spielerei. It was about something. I really think this kind of debate is necessary. I'm glad they're here. We're not talking about nothing. I must also admit that I was very pleased with the support of the CDA. From the outset, that party indicated that there had to be room for some relief in the case of a attracting economy. I am also grateful to D66 for the very constructive co-thinking. I also thought it was important to get a party like D66, I say honestly. Of course, I was also pleased with the permanent reformist sounds from that angle, as you know from me. We still have a lot of people to convince. It's gonna be a while. We've got to keep going. We've got to keep going. I have previously expressed my respect, including in the House of Representatives, for the objections of the SGP and also the Christian Union, which were very fundamental. I complimented them on the arrangement. It's a fundamental discussion. From other parties I also respect and understand the criticism. At the same time, there is a very small point of concern, just before the holidays. Many parties had their own wishes. Unfortunately, many of these wishes were contradictory, I have to say. I also note, at least, that I am of the opinion that each of these currents has gotten something, although that sounds like I've given something away, which is not true. I'd better say that every one of those currents has gotten something done. The Chamber can share that view with me or not. At the same time, that is a reason for a lot of parties to say here too: I did get something done, but that is no reason to vote in favour. If we have a political climate in which everyone wants to achieve 100% of what he has put in place, while the wishes are so different, we are going to have a difficult time. I respect the objections of, for example, the PVV, but at the same time I see that it would vote against a tax reduction for workers and the elderly. I respect the firm fight of 50PLUS, but I think it is right and proper that thanks to this Tax Plan a lot is happening for the elderly, not 100%, but to a very important extent. In the Lower House I said with great respect to the GroenLinks spokesperson that I greatly admired his persistence on greening proposals. At the same time, I note that this is the most greening tax plan of the last five years. There are five to six measures in the greening atmosphere. It is not for me to decide whether GroenLinks is voting against, but it is a pity to see that the most greening system is one that they are voting against for the first time in years. I say to the SP that in the great repair of purchasing power at the bottom, although it is not large enough, before Mr Köhler wants to add it to me, there is the greatest increase in income for workers at the bottom. There's also a box 3 proposal that the SP doesn't spit on, I guess. Still, I didn't manage to get the SP because it's not 100%. That's the only shadow I see about this Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u173	Mr Köhler, a very short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u174	For the rest, I would like to thank the Chamber for this fantastic debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u175	Now that the Secretary of State invites us: we do not have that problem. The purchasing power repair for the minima, which is indeed there, albeit insufficient, is separate from the Tax Plan. Even if we vote against the Tax Plan, the purchasing power repair will be maintained. So the Secretary of State can't make that objection against us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u176	I have no objection, I respect everyone's views. They are very skilled and often also witty put forward, but often very visual and with a lot of examples, in which a lot of work has taken place. Not a bad word about that, but I have some concerns about governance and my next tax plans. That's what I want to end up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-21-eerstekamer-4.u177	I will close the debate and deal with the legislative proposals. I'll do that by bill. I ask the normal question I always ask. It's no big deal. I am simply asking Members whether they want a vote or not. Would any of the members like to vote on the 34302 bill, the 2016 Tax Plan? The answer to that is yes. Then I go to the Law 34303, the Disability Benefits Act Article 2-Funds? Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Then that bill is accepted. Anybody want a note? That is not the case either. Then the bill 34304, the law compensations wage domain. Anybody want a vote on this bill? That's the case. Then the vote on the legislative proposal 34305, Other fiscal measures 2016. Does anyone want a vote on that? I see D66 is asking for a vote on that. I'm going to vote on the legislative proposal 34306, the Law implementing amendments Mother-daughter directive 2015. I see that the Chamber also wants to vote on that. Then the vote on the bill 34276, the Act implementing Common Reporting Standard. Does anyone want a vote on that? That is not the case. Then the bill is accepted. Anybody want a note? That is not the case either. Finally, does one of the members want to vote on the 34460 Bill, Amendment to the 2016 Tax Plan? That's the case. I propose that tomorrow evening at the end of the sitting we vote on the legislative proposals on which we have been asked to vote and on the motions. That's how it's clear to everyone, I'm sure. I'm closing the meeting... oh, no, I can't close the meeting, I'm suspending her. I'm not gonna do that until after I wish the Secretary of State good Christmas. I shall suspend the sitting until 9 a.m. tomorrow morning.
