ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and the Minister for Economic Affairs. The speaking time in this debate is four minutes per group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. It's around seven o'clock. Normally I read to my son now and put him to bed, but I can't complain about the fact that I'm standing here. After all, we have requested this debate ourselves. I can't put my son to bed right now, but I'd like to read something for the cabinet. I hope they don't fall asleep as quickly as he normally does, but don't give any guarantees. "Great people love numbers. When you tell them about a new friend, they never ask the most important thing. They never say, "How does his voice sound?" What games does he like the most? Does he collect butterflies?" But they ask, "How old is he? How much does it weigh? How many brothers does he have? And how much does his father earn?" Only then will they find that they know him." This is a quote from perhaps the most beautiful children's book ever written, the little prince. I wanted to start with that, because today we are talking about the figures of the Central Planning Bureau (CPB). The coalition and opposition always roll over each other when those figures appear. The coalition thinks it's fantastic and the opposition often thinks it's too little, but what's missing is an explanation of those figures. That is why my group wanted this debate today. What do those numbers mean? There's more growth. Chapeau! Growth is half a percent more than predicted, but what does that mean? What does that say about our society? My group is not satisfied, because you can see that this growth does not lead to more jobs. The Minister of Social Affairs was very happy, almost euphoric. He said: there will be almost 90,000 jobs! He does not, however, mention that the cuts mean that many jobs are being lost at the same time. Those aren't my words, but it's a CPB statement. I don't think it's an achievement to be proud of when you see that more than 600,000 people are still unemployed. The priority should not therefore be to put out the flag and say that the economy is growing again. The priority must be to ensure that things improve on the labour market. In fact, the problems in the labour market are great, much greater than the letter from the cabinet in response to the CPB figures. The letter on the tax system rightly states that 1.2 million people are currently looking for work. So this is not about the 600,000 unemployed, but about 1.2 million people looking for work. That number was not chosen by myself; the cabinet itself calls it. Moreover, the number of unemployed is not falling. We have jobless growth. It is high time we changed this. That can be done, and that brings me to the heart of the matter with a new tax system. That is what the debate is really about tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u3	I was just about to interrupt, because I share Mr Klaver's concern about unemployment, but I cannot at all include the term 'jobless growth', which his group chairman used earlier. Ninety thousand jobs will be added this year. Next year there will also be 90,000 jobs. Over 70,000 jobs have been created over the past year. A total of a quarter of a million jobs will thus be created. On what does Mr Klaver base this firm position?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u4	If you have listened to me correctly, you have also heard that I have said that 90,000 jobs will be added. That's what I said. I also say that in the end unemployment is almost unchanged, only by about 10,000. This still leaves more than 600,000 people unemployed. I therefore believe that the growth we are achieving is disproportionate to the employment gains we are making. That's what I'm emphasising.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u5	I share Mr Klaver's concerns about unemployment, but I do not share the view that this is 'jobless growth'. You can't keep doing that if you get 250,000 jobs, which means a quarter of a million. It concerns people who have not yet been on the labour market, people who have sat at home and who are afraid to apply but who are now getting a job, and students who are no longer staying in school or who are not going abroad but who are still able to find a job. These are extra people getting jobs. Those are all individual people who have been or are about to get a job. This should not be scorned. I believe that Mr Klaver, with terms such as 'jobless growth', paints an image of reality that is not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u6	I have read a quote that was fiction, but it was not intended that my contribution should be understood as fiction. Again, if you see that unemployment is barely falling and that so many people are still on the sidelines, as a cabinet and as a coalition you should be reluctant about the euphoria about the new figures, which would show how well the Netherlands is doing. I think we're a long way from here. Mr. Chairman. I come to the reform of the tax system, an important reform that is needed to ensure that there is more employment. How we are going to achieve this remains the question. It's gonna be a while. I have therefore been surprised at D66 and the CDA, who constantly say that we need more cuts to ensure that the new tax system is implemented quickly. However, Mr Koolmees is not clear as to where these cuts are going to fall, but we will probably be able to talk about this during his contribution. Minister Dijsselbloem in turn says that he wants to reduce the deficit to collect the necessary lubricating oil. GroenLinks has no problem with that. In fact, we think it's fine. The question is whether this also applies to the coalition colleague of the PvdA. GroenLinks is clear about the cuts. We do not want to make additional cuts in social security and care. We're gonna bet on a load shift. People with a lot of wealth, tax evaders and environmental pollutants are going to pay more. The money that we raise in this way is used to reduce the tax burden on people with an income to a moderate level. We want a tax system that not only leads to more work, but also to less inequality and less CO emissions. This has created a big gap between what GroenLinks want on one side and D66 and the CDA on the other. Minister Asscher, Minister Dijsselbloem, the cabinet and Prime Minister Rutte indicate that they want to work with everyone after 18 March to come up with a tax reform. When I look at the playing field like that, the differences are big. That's good, too. Different opposition parties give clarity about what they want. Some want to cut back, some want to reduce the deficit or create a shift in charges. You can't insist that you want to keep working with everyone. I am therefore curious to see which direction the cabinet intends to take and whether the cabinet is prepared to clarify this before 18 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u7	Mr. Chairman. Looking at last week's CPB figures, we can conclude that the recovery has started. The question is, of course, whether this is due to government policy or not. In this context, I think it is fair that the letter sent by the Minister yesterday also mentioned the international developments which led to the attraction of the economy. We are faced with a falling euro, which is beneficial for exports, and with a falling oil price, favourable for purchasing power. By the way, the world economy has been going well for a long time. Every year, the world economy grows a few percent faster than the European economy. If we compare the Netherlands with Europe, the Netherlands is doing a little worse than Europe, according to recent figures from the European Commission. Our Prime Minister is now enthusiastically saying that we are in the leading group and that we must keep our course. When I hear these terms, I think I'm in a cycling squad. Our Prime Minister is riding his bike in the back, looking behind him and seeing that someone is not keeping up and has to unload; let us say Greece. He then describes the peloton in which he drives as "the leading group." In any case, this shows a very positive view, but also a slightly coloured view. I do not want to spoil the party for the cabinet, but if I stick strictly to the figures I have just mentioned, we can see that we are actually doing no worse than the rest of Europe in 2015. In 2016 we are already behind on the rest. At a good time, the Prime Minister even claimed in a delirious moment that we would have the highest growth in Europe. Can these rulers confirm that? I would also like to hear the source of this happy news, because this is not reflected in the figures of the Central Planning Office and the figures of the European Commission. I now turn to a few of my concerns, first of all, about employment. Last month, the European Commission quoted an interesting study which established a relationship between growth and employment. In most countries, unemployment has been growing faster than expected in recent years. There were only two countries where unemployment was higher: Italy and the Netherlands. My question to these gentlemen is, of course, what this is about. In the letter we received yesterday, it says that the cabinet is still the first priority to combat unemployment. It also focuses on vulnerable groups. Yet we see that next year there will be 40,000 unemployed more than the CPB predicted on Princess Day. But worse, the CBS recently announced that long-term unemployment has tripled since 2009. There has been an increase in long-term unemployment especially among older people. Has there not been very little of this cabinet's ambitions in terms of unemployment? Hasn't policy been counterproductive? Maybe this has something to do with my other concern, the purchasing power. In the Netherlands, it has been heavily left behind for many years. Thanks to a low oil price, purchasing power is picking up again this year and then falling completely silent next year, despite that low oil price. Can one of these ministers make a statement to that effect? What can be done to restore purchasing power? In this context, I heard the Minister of Finance say last week about austerity: further cuts are economically unwise and would damage consumer confidence and purchasing power. As you know, we have been of the opinion that this is the case for a long time and we believe that a great deal of damage has already been done. It is a pity that we have not heard the Finance Minister say this in recent years. The last time I heard him talk about this was just before the other elections, the Dutch Parliament elections in 2012. I would ask the Ministers to clarify this. What decision has been taken on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u8	As we have known for two weeks, Mr Merkies is very concerned about Greece.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u9	I've been concerned about Greece for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u10	He doesn't want to cut back. Should we not give less money to Greece? There will soon be a third support package. You can wait for that. Then another 20, 30 or 40 billion goes to Greece. Does Mr Merkies agree or does he choose the Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u11	Mr Van Dijck often asks the same question. As he knows, we were against the aid in 2010, because we felt that it should be written off first. I'm afraid the write-off isn't over. We now have a huge problem with Greece. Mr Van Dijck will have to realise that the question is whether Greece will actually be able to repay it in the end. We are in favour of a policy which is good for the Greeks as well as for us, a policy which will enable Greece to relaunch the Greek economy, so that we are more likely to be paid back in the end. The solution chosen by Mr Van Dijck is certainly not going to work. He says: throw them out of the euro, throw them out of Europe. Then you're sure you'll never get your money back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u12	The strategy of the SP is that we must continue to give money to a junkie, because Greece still has the junk status, in the hope that this junkie, Greece, will one day pay back. Is that now the strategy to deal with debt restructuring? Keep throwing money, 'cause if we stop throwing, we can't get our money back?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u13	Then Mr Van Dijck did not listen very well. Last time, when the Finance Minister entered into the consultations in Europe, I advocated that we provide a temporary solution. That is what finally came to pass, by the way. We must give the Greek Government, which is just there and which is coming up with new plans which also create opportunities, for example in dealing with tax avoidance and corruption, the opportunity to draw up these plans. I think we might be a lot better off.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u14	Mr. Chairman. Interrupting already?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u15	We have had an extensive debate on the billions of savings...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u16	This has been rehearsed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u17	...who wants to pour D66 on society on care and on social security. Mr Koolmees is now saying that the question has been rehearsed, but this is a serious question. I think it is now time for D66 to indicate where the cuts are taking place and what a tough demand is being made to the cabinet. He announced in the financial considerations that he has finished his austerity list. I've been waiting six months for it. People have a right to clarity and certainty. Is D66 willing to give it today?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u18	I have to say, I think this is a pathetic, rehearsed interruption. Mr Nijboer and his party are merely creating panic. They don't have their own story. All they do is put the CDA and D66 in a corner, because they have so many austerity proposals. Oh, that's so bad. I think it would be a very good advice to Mr Nijboer to look at his own party. Before the 2012 elections, there was the fair story: we are not going to buy JSF. What happens now? We'll buy a JSF. We are going to increase the AOW age, but not until 2017. Now in the Chamber is a bill from Mrs Klijnsma of the PvdA to speed it up. What else do we have? We would reverse VAT, but that was campaign talk from the PvdA. I haven't seen much of it. I advise Mr Nijboer to listen to my story, then to ask interesting questions, but also to calm down and not to panic. The PvdA's a little panicked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u19	That's where they're being beaten wildly around them! I've been asking for six months, both inside and outside the Chamber, what D66 has for the country. Mr Pechtold was in De Telegraaf with an interview of two pages. D66 has a hard demand, both in the Chamber and outside the Chamber. D66 insists that billions of additional savings should be made, otherwise the party will no longer support the cabinet. The people have a right to know that Mr Koolmees does not continue to be vague about this, or does spoils to the PvdA and drags all kinds of other things into it. People have a right to see Mr Koolmees indicate what that is going to happen to. Who pays the bill for the D66 proposals? That is the big question of today's debate, and I do not yet hear anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u20	Mr Nijboer did not even get a chance to hear anything, because he did not even start me with my input. This is a really weird story. I have a very nice input with all kinds of interesting considerations. These are also interesting considerations for the cabinet. Mr Nijboer speaks in his rehearsals campaign language that CDA and D66 are so bad. The following is an interesting point in this respect. Yesterday I saw that the PvdA campaign leader in Leiderdorp in a tweet apologized for the fact that the national campaign team of the PvdA is sticking posters everywhere. If Mr Nijboer listens to my story, he may ask questions later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u21	You have four minutes for your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u22	I've been using that for four seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u23	My point of order was this. Are we seeing the list of D66 now? Is that what Mr Koolmees is doing, or is it going to remain vague and keep D66 in the eye, making clear choices and keeping the country in uncertainty?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u24	I propose that Mr Koolmees start his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u25	I think that's a very good idea. Then Mr Nijboer can sit down and perhaps think about his next interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u26	Mr Van Dijck also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u27	I do not want to stir up a good marriage, but I do have some tips for Mr Koolmees, things that we can save a lot of money on. I am thinking of the contribution to Brussels, to development aid and to subsidies. The money's for picking up. In five minutes, we'll have a list of 16 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u28	Mr Koolmees continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u29	Let me just start with my own story. Mr. Chairman. There's good news. With a little help from a low euro rate and cheap oil, the Netherlands slowly comes out of the valley. The reforms that D66 has been advocating for years are also paying off. That is precisely why we have worked constructively to improve the government's plans. But the CPB figures aren't just sunshine. In 2014, 656,000 people were unemployed. In 2016, there will still be 625,000. Purchasing power is also lagging behind. According to the CPB, in 2016, the people are ahead of it by 0.0%, so nothing. D66 wants unemployment to fall and people to spend more. That is why we have been calling for a major tax reform for years. The cabinet itself says that the current tax system is complex and sensitive to fraud and is mainly labour-intensive. This is bad for employment, bad for our tax system and bad for sustainable economic growth. The significant reduction in the tax burden on labour also leads to jobs, because then it becomes attractive to employ people. Work is also going to pay more and people get more to spend. This is good for the economy, good for purchasing power and good for jobs. In September, the cabinet promised a tax reform that would create 100,000 jobs. According to the cabinet, 3 to 5 billion euros are needed to achieve this, the so-called 'lubrication oil'. The question is: how is the cabinet going to pay for that? That's what we asked at the time. Yeah, there's lucky luck. 4.5 billion, according to the Minister of Finance. That is the difference between the 1.9% deficit in the coalition agreement and the 1.2% deficit now estimated by the CPB. But there are also setbacks. The gas tap in Groningen closes if the PvdA keeps pace and costs at least 1 billion and maybe even 1.5 billion. We need extra money to the security chain and to the DOD. Mrs. Hennis, the Secretary of Defense, also wants 1 billion according to De Telegraaf. In addition, there is a good chance that there will still be some problems in the budget, for example in terms of terms of exchange. It is just a question of whether there are enough windfalls in the cabinet and whether the government is actually going to allow the deficit to rise to 1.9% in the coalition agreement. For what exactly is the agreement between the VVD and the Labour Party on this point? I'd like to get an answer to this. D66 wants the tax reform to succeed quickly. That's more important than waiting for free money. There are no taboos for D66. There's nothing to talk about with us. D66 is prepared to look at the deficit through the windfalls, but also, if necessary, at rising public expenditure. Of course, 10 or 13 billion cuts are nonsense. The Minister of Finance knows that, too. I think that's a strange calculation, too. Minister Dijsselbloem of Finance says on the one hand that 3 to 5 billion is needed, but the PvdA Minister Dijsselbloem in campaign time says on the other that D66 wants to cut 13 billion for this. Of course, that's bullshit and panic-mongering. This Minister of Finance really doesn't need that. According to the Minister of Finance, but also according to the Prime Minister, there is enough room for tax reform. There will be, the cabinet promises. Free promises in election time don't help people. There's no free money. That's what I said at the AFB last year. That's why I have three questions for the cabinet. One: how big is the financial space? Two: How many billion of these are available for reduction of charges? Three: can the budget deficit increase, as Mr Samsom suggested? I would like to receive a response to that. That was it, Mr President, but I will stand for a moment because I know that Mr Nijboer has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u30	I wanted to give you the opportunity to conclude your speech. I give the floor to Mr Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u31	I waited for the story after the brief debate Mr Koolmees had with Mr Nijboer. I was expecting something more. Mr Pechtold has made it quite clear that the 13 billion will not be enough. The suggestion even seemed to be 13 billion. Later it was said: no, that's bullshit. Then just clarify: how much billion is it? How much billion does D66 want to cut next year, and what deficit does D66 want to meet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u32	Mr Merkies did not understand something. At the General Financial Reviews I tabled a motion together with Mr Van Hijum. I brought it with me, because I was expecting this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u33	I find it strange that I would not have understood something if I just asked a question, but that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u34	I'm going to explain why Mr Merkies didn't understand. I have therefore tabled a motion to the General Financial Reviews with Mr Van Hijum, who has unfortunately left us. It states that "if there are insufficient windfalls for the years 2016 and 2017, the government should also seek room for the necessary reduction of burdens in limiting rising public expenditure'. That was the story. The government has indicated that 3 billion to 5 billion is needed to make the tax review a success and to create 100,000 jobs, not for the deficit, not for cuts, not for public finances, but to create room for tax relief. That's the whole story. We said at the time: this tax reform is too important to sit back. As I have just said in my speech, there are now fortunate windfalls of 4.5 billion. But there are also setbacks: 1.5 billion for gas, at least 128 million for safety, we have to look at how that is covered, and Mrs Hennis wants additional money. Then the 4.5 billion will be built up below 3 billion, while the cabinet has indicated that it needs 3 billion to 5 billion. I have always said that I have repeated in my contribution that it is best to look at public expenditure. If it were 500 million or 1 billion needed to make the tax reform a success, that is the goal: to create jobs and purchasing power................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. There's got to be some way to find it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u35	I think it is a very long story, when I really only ask for two small numbers, namely: how much billion does D66 want to cut and what deficit does it want to come to? In fact, I would also like to ask to what extent, but if Mr Koolmees gives these two figures, I am already satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u36	We said: it's fine to use the windfalls. This means that we can certainly talk about the 1.9% deficit. That's what I said in my contribution. That means you're using the windfall for that. The second point is that you must have an amount for the ambition of tax reform, between 3 billion and 5 billion, as the cabinet has said. My little math from just now was that there's a little less than three billion available. Let's see what we need. The cabinet does that already in April, because then the decision on the 2016 budget will have to be taken and Wiebes will have to be given a clear mandate when it comes to how much money there is. Let us look at public expenditure. That is what we have said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u37	I know Mr Koolmees as a very substantive politician, but the reactions he gives to questions from colleagues I would like to describe as 'arrogant' and, to use his own words, as 'pathetic and a touch rehearsed'. Perhaps Mr Nijboer peaked a little early, but he did ask a very fair question to Mr Koolmees. I have listened to his whole speech. The central question, of course, is: you indicate that there are no taboos and that D66 wants to cut back anyway, so is it really weird when other parties ask you to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u38	I have already responded to this in the General Financial Reviews when I was asked the same question. I'll finish the math. You've got $3 billion in windfalls now. Let us hope that this is the case. You need something between 3 billion and 5 billion. If you need another billion to make that tax review a success, I repeat that that is the aim of the proposal, then you have to take that amount with the price adjustment and regulation of soft drugs alone. I know that Mr Klaver and Mr Nijboer strongly support that second part. Mr Klaver actually asked for an invitation to come and talk about the budget in April. I ask him to support this kind of good idea and indeed to free up the 3 billion to 5 billion space for relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u39	Now we're getting somewhere. It's nice: I see old Mr Koolmees coming back. He calls numbers and plans. Mr. Pechtold did the same on TV. He talked about the price adjustment and didn't mention anything. The salaries were taken out. Anything that's important to getting policemen to do their job was taken out. It's worth $500 million. We are adding to the excellent idea of legalising soft drugs. I don't know what that's like in the C3, but... In that case, we are still a little less than two billion short. Can we fill that out, too? That brings us to the crux, because we will soon reach the largest expenditure items in the government: health care and social security. Is it impossible for D66 to cut those two posts?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u40	Firstly, a correction to Mr Klaver's speech. He's talking about wages, but I'm talking about the price adjustment. Those are two separate categories. You have a salary adjustment on the budget and a price adjustment. The wages, the salaries of teachers and police officers, of D66 simply have to take precedence over the development in the market sector. For the price adjustment, the article in the Millions Note has an amount of 1 billion reserved for 2016 and 2017. It is well known that D66 wants to exclude education, because that is our investment in the future. That leaves you with 600 million to 700 million. Together with the 200 million of the regulation of soft drugs, you come a long way to realize the ambition of the cabinet. Then there's the question of care. There's no such thing as care. We have taken a great deal of measures in the last year to keep care affordable. But I'm thinking about the waste of care, of people who earn a five-ton salary. Mr Klaver also thinks that we should look at this. Surely these could be good measures to make the picture right, to do that tax review? I assume that Mr Klaver is very keen to take part in the debate on combating waste and dealing with exorbitant salaries in healthcare.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u41	I am addressed by Mr Koolmees. If we want to maximize the top salaries in health care, we might get $100 million. If we want to combat waste, it is a long-term task. The question is whether this will succeed in the short term, while we need the money for the tax review in the short term. I am so sure about cuts in health care and social security, because you will soon be able to get out of the benefits and reduce the package if you want to make money out of it in the short term. And of that my group says: you should not do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u42	That is clear and I share that with Mr Klaver, but it is not what I am saying. I would like to point out that there is scope for public spending which can help to take the final step towards the 3 billion to 5 billion room for tax revision. I think it's very good and sensible. Minister Dijsselbloem said last year in the General Financial Reviews that it is conceivable that there are widely shared savings opportunities that we can use to ensure that the tax reform succeeds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u43	I'm just quoting from De Telegraaf of 21 February. That is not a motion from last year, but last year Mr Buma and Mr Pechtold tabled a motion which was sharper than Mr Koolmees' motion. This was really about reducing public expenditure. More recently, on 21 February, Mr Pechtold launched an interview with two pages of premier-like photos, in which he wrote: "We demand a tax system in which the main driver is for employment: reducing wage taxes. D66 will therefore not accept it if there is no expenditure limitation." I now quote what Mr Pechtold said in De Telegraaf on 21 February as a harsh demand of D66. Mr Koolmees says in the Financial Reviews: "I have a whole list of savings options that I like to share with you. Then I want to show that those choices are there and what those choices are." My question is: what are D66's choices on these cuts? D66 stands for these cuts, because it lays them down as a hard demand to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u44	Mr Nijboer quotes incompletely from De Telegraaf. I had prepared myself for this and that's why I have the interview in front of me. That interview also says: "In the coalition it can be said that there is insufficient money, which is considered necessary as a lubricant in a tax review." That's two lines above it! Indeed, sources within the coalition would have said to my group chairman: those windfalls are not going to happen!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u45	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u46	No, Minister! Go on, Mr Koolmees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u47	Those sources thus said that there was insufficient money and then I come back to my position last year in the General Financial Reviews, which is again my position: because there is a need to stop pumping money around, the complexity and the heavy burden of labour and the light load of consumption and pollution, this tax reform is so important that 2016 and 2017 really need to be used for this. The story of Mr Nijboer is therefore incomplete. I have just argued to Mr Klaver that with a few targeted interventions I have mentioned three of them, I can make a very nice tax system. I made the sum and I hope to get an answer from the cabinet later on to what it is counting on now and which windfall rate is available.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u48	The vagueness in the speech is rather greater than smaller, and Mr Koolmees does not really provide clarity. I'd like to mark one more important case. The demand of D66 leader Pechtold was very clear. D66 would therefore not accept it if there were no expenditure limitation on the tax system and that requirement is now being taken back. If there's enough money, if there's any luck, D66's willing to cooperate. In fact, Mr. Pechtold's hard demand in the interview is not worth anything at all. What exactly is the cause of this? Did the polls scare D66 that the voter doesn't want any more cuts? Isn't that why he's afraid to give homage or spawn? For months, D66 demands billions of savings, but comes up with nothing. Mr Koolmees says he has lists, but when he comes to a point, he doesn't come up with anything. He is actually abandoning the demand of his group chairman in De Telegraaf. I think it's a special display.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u49	I think this remark is a little premature. I just asked the cabinet how much space there is. If it is true that a billion dollars is needed to make the tax review a success, I can give examples of items where savings can be made. Those are indeed public expenditure. Again, you are talking about a small billion or 0.4% of the total national budget in 2015. In 2017 it is even less. If the Labour Party and Mr Nijboer had a little ambition and wanted to achieve something else, surely there should be talk with the Labour Party? The Labour Party has dug itself into this campaign and is making all kinds of electoral promises that will prove to be worthless after 18 March. The PvdA probably only does that, because she had a lot of success in 2012. In order to achieve the ambition of a tax review, it is very wise to call on Mr Nijboer to look at the deficit and public expenditure. This is how we can ensure that this tax review is a success.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u50	D66 has really made very big statements: that 13 billion was that awfully large amount. But now I hear much smaller amounts: 200 million of soft drugs and the price adjustment. That's actually what's left. Now let's talk about this price adjustment, because that's apparently the only thing D66 comes up with. I think there has already been quite a price adjustment. What is the specific point of a price adjustment? It's just that ministries, departments, have less money to spend. Last year, more than a billion, including 600 million price adjustments, were cut back on the ministries. I would therefore simply like to know from Mr Koolmees where he intends to remove it in concrete terms. Is that at the expense of police officers, firefighters and so on? Where does Mr Koolmees take this money?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u51	This is a technical question. Last year at the AFB, I talked about 13 billion. This is the increase in public expenditure over the period 2015-2017. Public expenditure will then rise from 250 billion to 263 billion. I suggested that the government should not spend less, but less. In limiting this increase, if we can find a solution to the problem of tax relief, we are all better off. The whole Chamber wants to reduce taxes on labour in order to make the labour market work better. That is the first issue. The second issue is that of course it hurts. The price adjustment is the inflation correction for the departments. I'm making a distinction for the pay adjustment. The salaries just keep rising. As far as we are concerned, wage developments remain linked to collective bargaining in the market sector. The price adjustment is the amount of inflation credited to the budget of the departments. Of course, choices have to be made, but this has happened more often than not over the past five years. That seems to me to be a good reason to see if we can make money available for tax relief in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u52	I hear a very long story every time, but no answer to my question which is really being cut back. That price adjustment isn't free money that departments get. They get more money because the products they need to buy have become more expensive. If they receive the price adjustment, the departments can continue to do exactly the same. If they do not get the 500 million increase, then Mr Koolmees must tell us where this money goes from. Is this from the police or the fire department? He needs to tell us clearly where this money is being taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u53	The math I just made is based on extra money. I call it security money and Minister Hennis also has all kinds of wishes. However, it is also about less money. You have to make choices and they're always painful choices, but you can make them. That does indeed mean an efficiency blow in the government. This means, indeed, that there are substantial cuts in the government, in the ministries and in the administration. Again, it is not the first time that this measure has been applied in the last five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u54	There's more and more clarity. Mr Pechtold said in the RTL debate that the price adjustment was 500 million. A few hundred million has now been squeezed. Mr Koolmees says that he does not want to cut back on the package and on the benefits; it has to come from combating waste. I refer to the cuts proposed by D66 in 2012. I also see room for intensification of government policy. They were all savings in the area of own payments: a higher own risk, a higher own contribution and a no-show discount. I see very little waste passing by. Mr Koolmees is talking about combating waste. In the context of clarity, I would like to hear how he sees it. How does he plan to raise that money in the short term? Does he rule out the fact that your own payments in care go up? The latter is important in relation to the tax review.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u55	All the parties who had their election programmes in Choices put into Maps were talking about billions of savings on care. That goes for my party, the PvdA, the VVD and the CDA. It does not apply to Mr Klaver's party. GroenLinks made a different choice. Ultimately, an amount of 5.5 billion has been achieved, but the election programmes involved 4 to 4.5 billion. Those cuts were made up of all kinds of measures. They concerned the package and their own contributions. The field came with the request from Minister Schippers that it would exchange those measures for covenants with all providers of care. Those agreements would reduce the rise in volumes in hospitals and nursing homes. That is a good saving, because it does not affect the package and does not lead to higher own contributions. The saving focuses on efficiency, on reducing waste. That's what D66 thinks are good measures. Mr Klaver mentioned measures from my party's electoral programme. Those measures were indeed included, but in the end they were chosen for these agreements. The agreements run until 2017. D66 is satisfied with this because it really puts a brake on the growth of healthcare expenditure. However, there is no room for the cuts for 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u56	Finally, Mr Klaver
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u57	I did not understand that last point, which Mr Koolmees said just a moment later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u58	It was a longer point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u59	Well, I got a little distracted because I thought the finance minister was in trade-K, but I just got an explanation from Mr Koolmees about what the cabinet did. However, I did not ask him what cabinet policy is; I am aware of that policy. I asked him the question what he sees for himself when he says very lightly, hand in the pocket: well, it's about not so much money, 0.4% of total government spending, that's what we're going with a little ambition, isn't it, Henk? I'll get it done. That is what Mr Koolmees says here. I ask him what that looks like. The only plan I see in his election programme, and I have to stick to it, is that he wants to do so by throwing up his own payment. If Mr Koolmees has other ideas about how he wants to do it in the short term, now is a good time to make them clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u60	I explained how the process went and why we made choices in our election programme, but I welcome the covenant of Minister Schippers. I'm not going to take separate measures. Not at all. I think it's okay to keep looking at waste all the time. I just made the sum of the little billion you need. Mr Klaver talks about care, care, care. The care is everything, nursing home care, the Wmo, hospital care. You can't keep a story about that. In the end, therefore, it is a sensible measure to combat waste. We've mentioned the no-show before. I believe that Mr Klaver is very much in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u61	Last interruption, Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u62	I'm gonna try one more time. I have just asked whether Mr Pechtold's demand is off the table. That is not the case; it remains on the table. D66's demand to cut billions for a new tax system remains on the table. On the other hand, however, there is no clarity. Mr Klaver has just asked a very fair question. A very fair question: do you simply want to carry out your election programme, Mr Koolmees, so reduce the risk to €500, reduce the WW to one year, just as unemployment remains a concern and the GPs ask for their own contributions of 25%? Are these the proposals that we will be able to see at the budgetary table as a hard demand of D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u63	This, too, is another attempt to create a panic. Billions of cuts... The WW is a good example. D66 said before the 2012 elections that she wanted to do something with that. The PvdA said: no, don't touch that, it's really about workers' rights. Then there is the cabinet and the Minister for Social Affairs has concluded a nice social agreement in which the WW is indeed limited. So before the elections, we gave a fair indication of what we want. That was not entirely possible, because we have a social agreement and I am still happy about that. But that panic is not a credit to Mr Nijboer with "billion cuts." I have just calculated, with a sum, that we may need a billion: 0.4% of public expenditure. Let us make that picture together, constructively and ambitiously. Then we'll figure it out. Instead of talking to each other a little fear, creating panic and sticking posters, it is very good to show ambition together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u64	Finally. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u65	Mr Koolmees is constantly sketching the PvdA history to me, but I asked him a very simple question. D66 wants to make extra cuts. There must be no cuts in education. The additional savings will thus be made at the lowest incomes, in the case of care, in the case of social security. Who's gonna feel that exactly? Who exactly is going to feel that, I think that is a very legitimate question before the elections. Mr Koolmees has repeatedly refused an answer, including to my colleagues, who asked him all of them. However, it is a very legitimate question. Mr Koolmees himself indicated that he has a list of cuts. People have a right to know, to get an answer to this question. I'm making the ultimate effort, Mr. Chairman. Mr Koolmees, what exactly do you want to do with the cuts? What exactly do you want to cut back on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u66	What hits me is again this fear-making of the PvdA. Again, Mr Nijboer says in his question that it is all at the expense of people on benefits and people on low incomes. That's bullshit! That's total bullshit. There's a panic in the campaign at the PvdA, so they're gonna put this straw on posters everywhere. We're not talking about billions. I have indicated that if we manage to find that 3 billion to 5 billion, partly because of windfalls, that is good news, and partly because of choices, perhaps one billion dollars we will get out of it. You can do that by doing sensible things. Again, it would adorn the PvdA to take a look at the regulation of soft drugs. That is a good idea, on which Mrs Berndsen has a legislative proposal. Mr Omtzigt disagrees. However, billions of cuts are not at all on the agenda. That's scary. That's panic.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u67	I see that farce between the PvdA and D66 for a while now. I have a question of conscience. How does it feel now that you've been helping the PvdA and this cabinet for two years? You signed up for 30 billion in cuts. You have signed 15 billion in charges and 15 billion in reversals. You helped them, you put the cabinet in the saddle. Now it comes to a billion dollars that you need for a tax review, but you run into such a coalition, opposition or what to call it. How does that feel? Do you now regret this constructive role? If you had not signed the Kunduz agreement in 2012, you wouldn't have needed that billion at all, those charges wouldn't have gone up by 15 billion and the Netherlands wouldn't have been as flat as it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u68	I certainly do not regret the constructive role of D66 in recent years. In doing so, we have implemented a lot of fine reforms. And indeed, you can see that that works. But I agree with Mr Van Dijck that what we have done in recent years makes the criticism of the Labour Party somewhat unbelievable. Yes, I agree with Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u69	You must not provoke, Mr Koolmees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u70	I'm glad you agree with me. Of course, it's about your signing. You call it beautiful reforms and fine plans, but society feels what you've done as big deformities. The fact is that we are now 150,000 unemployed and 26,000 bankruptcies richer in this country, and you have signed up for that. As a stench of thanks, you will now be wiped out of the PvdA's pan: where do you think you should get that billion from? By the way, I do have ideas for that billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u71	I agree with Mr Van Dijck on that last point, but I still think it is very sensible that in recent years we have decided to increase, for example, the AOW age, to do something about the labour market: definitely less fixed, flex less flex. This creates growth, dynamics, and future-proof policies. I'm still very proud of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u72	Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, the economy seems to be attracting something again, and that's nice. But that's not because of, but despite the cabinet, because the cabinet is smashing the Netherlands: higher excise duties and higher taxes. There's a word for that: socialism. Winston Churchill once said it strikingly; I give the quote abbreviated: socialism is the equal distribution of misery. The VVD, once a liberal party, should therefore be ashamed of itself. This house now consists of 148 socialists. Recently, the Heritage Foundation, the largest American think tank, presented a report showing that the Netherlands is in the area of fiscal freedom at the site of 174 of the 178 countries examined, among former Soviet republics such as Estonia and Lithuania. The Netherlands itself looks like a Soviet Republic, led by Marx Rutte. What the Netherlands needs more than ever is more economic freedom. Our group is the only one aiming for a low tax rate of less than 23%. We reduce excise duties, we reduce VAT and we reduce corporate tax. We also want the employer's share of the pension structure to go fully to the employee's gross wage. Working Netherlands will receive hundreds of euros each month in our plans. Our duty-free foot, which amounts to €15,000, also improves the lower income groups. Our plans lead to much higher economic growth and to hundreds of thousands of additional jobs, a true prosperity revolution. And you can. Our tax plans have been properly calculated by the Central Planning Bureau. The Netherlands craves a small government, low taxes and less socialism. Hopefully the cabinet will agree with me. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u73	Mr. Chairman. Last week's figures from the Central Planning Office show that government policy works. Tough but necessary measures have been taken in the economic crisis. It took courage. A solid basis for economic recovery has been laid. Economic growth has been overestimated, investment is increasing and purchasing power is slightly higher than expected. That's what you see in practice. I already had an interrupting debate with Mr Klaver on the number of additional jobs. A quarter of a million jobs added in three years. You can see it in practice, too. In Bergen op Zoom a distribution center is opened: 100 people extra a job. A Spanish company opens a bakery in Oldenzaal: 75 people a job. Google invests 600 million euros in my own province of Groningen. The Dutch economy has fallen from the economic rear, in which the Netherlands had ended up in the economic vanguard after the cabinet with the support of the PVV. The response to the CPB figures of D66 and CDA is really a bit staggering. Just as recovery continues, they call in choir, together: more cuts. Mr Buma: the government must be smaller. Mr Pechtold in De Telegraaf on 21 February under the title "The Revenge of D66": it is a tough demand for tax revision, additional cuts. Additional cuts are not only desirable. Not only are they presented, they are also demanded. It is a game of peeing between D66 and the CDA, between Mr Koolmees and Mr Omtzigt and between Mr Buma and Mr Pechtold. It's a cynical The Hague game, though. Cuts just as economic recovery is attracting, people are directly affected. No matter how vague, no matter how abstract or price adjusted you bring them, cuts get people directly into the wallet. The price adjustment also falls at nursing homes, which receive less money. Satisfaction at its own risk leads to higher own contributions. A shortening of the WW will immediately notice people. It's in D66's election program. Lower fees as well. Less pay, as I say to Mr Omtzigt of the CDA, people, nurses, police officers and others feel in the wallet after five years. That is really unwise and would damage the economic recovery.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u74	Mr Nijboer says that savings on surcharges are included in the D66 electoral programme. Doesn't the PvdA's election programme include a 500 million cut on the surcharges, in relation to the mortgage interest deduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u75	Yes, that's the case. If you had mortgage interest relief, there'd be a cut on surcharges. We have taken a number of measures as a cabinet. Just now the recovery bet, D66 is in favour of breaking that in the button.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u76	That wasn't my question. Mr Nijboer says that this cut is in the D66 election programme. I'm saying it's also in the PvdA's election program. Then I find it a strange reproach.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u77	That's not a weird accusation at all. We all had election programmes at the beginning of the crisis, when there was a huge austerity challenge in the pipeline. It's filled in. What is special about the position of D66 is that it is precisely now that the economic recovery is under way, it is now that what is needed and it is precisely now that employment is increasing that it is calling for further cuts. She doesn't even want that, but she demands it. It puts billions of savings as a tough condition, cuts that break the economic recovery. Why is it a mystery to me? I find it incomprehensible and unwise. It doesn't make any sense to people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u78	There are still 640,000 people unemployed. The government's ambition for tax reform could add 100,000 jobs. 100 000 jobs seem to me to be an excellent ambition to address this high level of unemployment. However, you do need money for that. You can't keep waiting for windfalls. It takes money, which is 350 billion. Are there enough windfalls to carry out that tax review now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u79	Yes. The PvdA Group, I don't know if that clarity is still needed, but it is against additional cuts. Mr Koolmees is in favour of this, but he is not prepared to tell the electorate before the elections where savings will be made. If you exclude education, Mr. Klaver was right to point that out, just like Mr. Merkies, it will be in health care and social security. That will hit people hard and the PvdA is not in favour of that. That's what the PvdA's big opponent of.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u80	I didn't need this string. I only had one simple question: are there enough windfalls now to really get the tax review off the ground in 2016?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u81	I answered that, too. The answer to this is: yes, there is no need for additional cuts and there is room in the windfalls, as the cabinet has also indicated. Mr Koolmees can see that, too. D66 has made real demands with regard to austerity and is trying to get away from it a little bit and still stick to it. Pechtold's statement is not taken back in this debate either. I really did my best to do that. I really did my best to get out of D66 that needs to be cut now. There is no clarity on this point. I can only conclude that it affects people very hard in their care and social security, and that it puts the economic recovery to the test. That's unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u82	We have just had a satisfactory debate with Mr Koolmees. Mr Nijboer has the floor for a minute or two. Now I want to talk about the PvdA. The PvdA praises: there is economic growth; it is fantastic; it is good; we must now keep our course! It's like we're not supposed to do anything else. In my view, an important lesson that left-wing parties should learn is that we are not making this country better with only economic growth. With economic growth alone, we are not getting there. This also requires active government policies, for example to reduce income disparities. Why is the PvdA refusing to make the capital tax progressive in all the proposals we are making here? I don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u83	Unemployment is the greatest concern of today. That is exactly the point I have made in my speech. The PvdA wants to focus the tax system with all parties in the Chamber more on employment, on employment, because unemployment is still far too high. That is what we want. We are very much in favour of this. We want to make hiring people much more attractive. We want people to keep net more in their pockets when they have a job, so that they can also spend more and support SMEs. We are very much in favour of this. That can also come from the windfalls that the cabinet has foreseen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u84	Mr Nijboer rightly blames Mr Koolmees for giving zero clarity on what D66 wants to cut, but I can make the same accusation to Mr Nijboer, for example when it comes to tackling the wealthy. In word, the PvdA always supports us in that. We need to tax power more heavily. We need to reduce the burden on labour. One of the most concrete proposals is: make sure you have a progressive property tax. That's the proposal Piketty made when he came to visit us. Why can't the PvdA decide on that? That would be a very clear signal and a good way to raise extra money from wealth and thus reduce the burden on labour. If Mr Nijboer asks Mr Koolmees to be clear, then he himself must be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u85	Mr Klaver is a bit excited, but I have no difficulty in being clear about this. It has been agreed that the government will look at capital taxes and real returns in the system review. We all know here in the Chamber that the greater your ability is, the more return is made. Private equity parties also have discussions with us about this. So you're gonna have to pay more taxes. The small saver, who now pays 4% tax on his savings and who doesn't think it is reasonable at all, will be spared more. In that we are on the same side. We can measure the differences very widely and debate semantic issues, but at the core we are on the same side. Mr Klaver knows the same thing about me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u86	No, now Mr Nijboer is really taking a walk with reality. I want to talk about real returns, but that is not our question. Mr Nijboer knows that very well. Mr Samsom mentioned tariffs. That's the point. It is a progressive tax on wealth, as you also have a progressive tax on income. Mr Samsom even mentioned the rates in Nieuwsuur at some point. Each time Mr Nijboer walks away from that. Is he for a progressive capital tax with different rates?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u87	If the return is higher, more has to be paid. I think that's progressive. It is also the larger capacities that make more efficiency. They will have to pay more, because the return will be taxed. I am very much in favour of that. However, I would like to draw attention to one other point, because the discussion tends to become box 3-type discussions for those we are talking about. Let us look at what the cabinet does to the greatest assets. The biggest subsidies are on houses in this country anyway. The extent to which the mortgage interest rebate is limited during this cabinet period also provides a basis for economic recovery. I am proud that that has been achieved. This is a considerable, long-term limitation which is at least as essential for the economy as the percentages Mr Merkies is asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u88	The point is that capital is very unevenly distributed in the Netherlands. We all know that. Power's being low-charged. You could at least say you're charging it a little more fairly. That's the point. It's good to talk about real return. It's strange that we haven't talked about that so far. Fortunately, we agree on this. My question concerns a progressive tax system in the area of assets with different tariff brackets. Why does the PvdA suddenly disagree with this, when Mr Samsom said it on television a year ago?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u89	Whether you get 10% return on your assets or 1%, in the Netherlands you are currently paying exactly the same amount. I do not think that is fair, fair and not progressive. The PvdA wants to level that out, and I think that's progressive. The PvdA wants to further support the economic recovery. We want to make this more profitable with the tax system by working. During the General Financial Reviews we also advocated wage increases in sectors where this is possible. You can see from the economic figures presented by the CPB, that profits are increasing even further and that there is and must be room for agreement in collective agreements on wage increases. I'd like to hear a response from the cabinet. The economic recovery has started. It is really important not to create new uncertainties about this fragile recovery. The economic recovery must be given room. New cuts that the CDA and D66 want to pour over the country. I see Mr Koolmees again.... are very damaging for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u90	When you have finished your speech, I will now give you an opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u91	I have a very short question. Fortunately, Mr Nijboer says that there are enough windfalls to make the tax review really work in 2016. How much billion is available now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u92	We agreed in the government agreement to improve public finances as well. My party's for that, too. We also want to be able to provide good care, good education and social security for future generations. There is now room in relation to that ambitious path; a few billions of space can be found there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u93	Something more concrete, please. How much billion is available for this tax relief? The cabinet says it takes 3 to 5 billion. How much is needed according to Mr Nijboer? I have another question on the extension of this. Does Mr Nijboer wish to increase the deficit further? At least that was the suggestion that Mr Samsom made today. Is that above 1.9% or is that misinterpreted?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u94	I had to laugh at the words'something more concrete', because as concrete as I was in Mr Koolmees' first term, Mr Koolmees has not been so specific all evening. Several billions are definitely available. The total fiscal plan will require 3 to 5 billion in windfalls. This would be the whole plan. A first step can be taken next year. Mr Koolmees knows as well as I do that an entire tax system cannot be introduced in one year. There is really more than enough room to focus this tax system on labour. You can also see this from these figures, and that is why I find it so completely incomprehensible that Mr Koolmees keeps talking about austerity all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u95	I don't quite understand this last one. I understand the deficit is lower than the path. 1.2 versus 1.9, that's 0.7%, so that's about 4.5 billion. I think this is occasional money. The deficit would continue. I didn't see that we have a structural windfall. That would be even better news, that's what that year is. I think we need to reduce the deficit further to get rid of that sovereign debt. Or is Mr Nijboer saying that we have a structural windfall, year by year, of 0.7%?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u96	There's definitely windfalls. Of course, we do not know exactly where they all occur, but probably on a fair scale, both in terms of expenditure and in terms of taxes. They always work on a structural basis. That is good use according to budgetary policy. I would also like to put this question to the Minister of Finance. I even saw the former head of budgetary policy nodding that these are structural windfalls.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u97	That's good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u98	Mr Klaver, you have just been here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u99	I'm looking at the chairman. I'm like laundry in her hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u100	You may briefly ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u101	The leader of the PvdA, Mr Samsom, said this morning to De Pressdienst: we are taking two years for the revision of the tax system; in this way we can collect enough money for the lubricating oil with windfalls. What if it's not enough after those two years? So what's the PvdA gonna do? Does it have to take longer? Or is it possible to talk about cuts being made?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u102	The PvdA is very ambitious with regard to the tax system. At the same time, Mr Klaver also knows that a review of the whole system will not be completed in two years if you want to start the business tax, the profit tax, box 3............................................................................................................................................................................. We can take substantial steps on a step-by-step basis. These figures provide a sufficient basis for this. I want it as soon as possible, but to ask what should happen now if there is no money for it in two years' time, I think it is very premature. Less than a year and a half ago, we were engaged in discussions about 6 billion cuts. That's how fast it can be. You can now see that the economic picture is tilted. We, as politicians, must seize the opportunity to put the tax system more into action.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u103	Mr Nijboer and I do not disagree. I think we should do that. I am asking this explicitly because Mr Samsom has outlined a two-year timetable. In the meantime, we could raise enough money to allow for a system change. In this context, I would like to put the following very specific question to Mr Nijboer. Does he exclude any cuts in order to bring about a review of the tax system? After all, in two years' time it might just prove that it is not enough money and that we still need to raise more money. Does Mr Nijboer exclude any cuts to enable this system to be revised?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u104	As a PvdA, we have never been in favour of cuts in the tax system. I have already told you this in the General Financial Reviews and that position has not changed. In fact, I insisted today that that would be very unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u105	Mr. Chairman. This debate is coming at a very good time. Today is Prayer Day. Many churches reflect on the future of our country. That's a very nice, old tradition. Traditionally that was at the beginning of the season for agriculture. Nowadays, it's being widened. One of the things that is given a great deal of attention is employment. It is therefore nice to think about that. When I listen to the debate between the various parties, it is also very necessary to consider it in the churches, because there is still a lot to be done before there is a majority in politics who takes the right measures. It's like election time when I hear the debate like that. Of course, that's not so bad, because there will be elections next week. My experience in the Committee on Finance is that it is usually very quiet and that it is about the facts. Anyway, I'm gonna have to do this sometime. That gives a little taste to the...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u106	That's why I allow for a lot of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u107	Yeah, but that doesn't bother you. We also have to reach 11 p.m., and the group chairmen will only arrive. I have three points. I hardly dare mention the first, namely cuts. I understand the crunch that's going on here. That has everything to do with next week. However, knowing the Minister for Finance, I would like to ask him the following. I understand that the cabinet says it has taken far-reaching measures in social security, care. That there is finally some extra money in the defense and that the cabinet does not want to get there, although it would, of course, like to add a lot more. That the cabinet also sees no possibility of doing anything with the legalization of soft drugs. I get all that stuff. Knowing the Minister of Finance and the Cabinet, I cannot imagine that the discussion will be beaten to death and that there will be nothing left if, in terms of money pumping around and a more efficient government, there are opportunities to reduce taxes. The reaction of the cabinet is, in my opinion, about the great things, such as social security and care, and that we are not going to do very far-reaching things again because we have done enough on that point. A lot of discussion is about stimulating labour supply. How effective is it to further stimulate paid work than we already do with the income-dependent combination discount, the childcare allowance and so on, when I do not think there is sufficient demand for labour? So I would like a reflection from the cabinet on what it is going to take advantage of with its policy. Is that on the supply of labour or is that on the demand for labour? That is where the problem lies. If we go back to making extra efforts on labour supply, which may well be necessary in the very long term, unemployment will continue to rise. So are we talking about relief for people and additional purchasing power, which increases demand? Are we talking about employers' burdens, for example? Are we talking, for example, about risks for employers when hiring staff? I think that is what the discussion should be about. There is still a point to the CPB transfer: if an agreement is reached, the CPB mainly looks at the labour supply. In the CPB, the supply of labour determines long-term employment. You know, as a cabinet, you might get a bad score. Finally, I ask the cabinet not only to pay attention to paid labour but also to unpaid labour. "Participation society" was the word of the year in 2013, but was nominated for the ugliest word in 2014. This word is confessed with the mouth, but it is not acted upon. Let's give unpaid labor the appreciation he deserves. Think of how many carers, volunteers and parents who raise their children perform. That brings me to my last question: does the cabinet see the importance of unpaid work? And how does it deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u108	I would like another response from Mr Dijkgraaf. I know his supporters are the family of breadcrumbs. As it happens today, the Nibud sounded the alarm clock: the household is in difficult times and can hardly keep its head above water. This is due to government policy. The chopping of children's schemes, the increase in rents and the general tax rebate are all issues that the earner with his two children and his wife, who takes care of those children, suffers. Does Mr Dijkgraaf realize that he is responsible for the misery that 87,000 families are now in? That's his constituency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u109	If Mr Van Dijck is reading the Nibud report, which I have also read, correctly, he will see that most of it comes from abolishing the portability of the tax rebate. As a result, inequality has arisen between one earner and two earners. The second is the increase in the income-dependent combination discount. The third is the increase in the employment discount. Those are all things the PVV has supported. These are all things that the PVV did not reverse in the previous period. If we appealed to the PVV, she wouldn't give up at home. We will draw attention to this. I also know that the cabinet is paying attention to this, because in September last year Mr Van der Staaij tabled a motion to the General Reviews calling on the cabinet to bring forward this point, a fair division between the earners and the two earners. That motion has been passed and is being carried out by the Cabinet. We are, of course, very anxiously following how that is going to happen. But it's also a promise from the cabinet. Also read the Millions note, where it's all in. This is a problem we need to solve. I hope the PVV will also take a positive view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u110	Mr Dijkgraaf is in favour of making the general tax rebate dependent on income. We never signed up for that. Mr Dijkgraaf is in favour of the reduction of the amount of 0.5 billion for children's schemes. We didn't sign up for that. In a constructive rush, Mr Dijkgraaf has supported this cabinet with all things that are now hitting the single earner hard. The single earner who goes to work every day to take care of his wife and two children cannot go on holiday and can no longer afford a car. That was very different 20 years ago, so I can tell him. Mr Dijkgraaf has abandoned his supporters, those 87 000 families. And then he tries to put the counter grant on my plate. However, it is much more than that. It is the children's schemes, the rents and the income-dependent general tax rebate. You know it, Mr Dijkgraaf, and you should be ashamed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u111	Those are nice words. I'll be ashamed of myself later. That's always good for a Christian. However, I mentioned a few things: the employment discount, which benefits two-earners but does not benefit one-earners, as well as the income-dependent combination discount and the fact that one-earners have twice the general tax reduction. Then you're talking, if you add up everything, about about about $8,000 missing out on such a family with an income of €35,000 or €40,000. Those are the big hits. The things Mr Van Dijck calls them are not. We are pleased that this cabinet has finally agreed not to introduce the cuts in family allowances and the cuts in the free textbooks. That would have helped, otherwise they would have had an even bigger problem. Just those things that Mr Van Dijck has all supported have caused the problem. We must do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u112	Mr. Chairman. I read the VVD slogan: we must keep our course. The PvdA calls out: we are doing well, we must keep course. If we take stock after two years of Rutte II, I wonder how they are doing. Thanks to the policy of this cabinet, we are 26 000 bankruptcies richer, 150,000 unemployed richer, 200,000 jobs poorer, taxes increased by 13 billion, we have seven quarters shrinking, purchasing power has been eroded, people with their mortgages are under water and rents went up like an arrow and were and passerby the protection of dismissals, retirement, the basic stock market, long-term care and the mortgage interest deduction demolished. Nevertheless, the cabinet dares to say with dry eyes that it is doing well and that it wants to keep its course. What does this cabinet want? More unemployed, more bankruptcies, higher taxes, more people under water with their mortgage? After all, that was the course so far. We all know why the economy is a little better off than it was a year ago. I understand that the speakers have so far been wisely concealing this. A year ago, the oil price wasn't $56. It was $110. A year ago, the euro was not 1,06 dollars, but 1,35 dollars. Those are quite different. A year ago we had an inflation rate of 2% and now inflation is negative, -0.1%. The government benefits from a super low interest rate of 0.33% on a ten-year interest rate. That's a deep record. The economy is thus recovering not thanks to the cabinet but despite the cabinet. I ask the Minister for Economic Affairs how the economy would have stood with that 2% interest rate a year ago, with that oil price of 110 dollars, an inflation of 2% and a euro of 1.35 dollars. Is the Minister prepared to ask the CPB to pass that on and then look at the state of the economy in 2015 and 2016? This cabinet wants to keep course, but the cabinet is long gone. The Prime Minister has lost control and is blowing with all winds. He's just trying to buy his time as Prime Minister. The Minister of Finance is fully employed by Brussels and is more concerned with Greece and the euro than with the Netherlands. The Minister for Social Affairs and Employment has seen unemployment increase since he arrived. When he started, there was an unemployment rate of 450,000 and now it's 650,000. The Minister of Economic Affairs sees only bankrupt companies. In 2013, 10,000 companies closed the doors and last year 12,500. Minister Kamp is standing by and watching companies go bankrupt. Meanwhile, Mrs Laura van Geest is being put forward very cleverly so shortly before the elections to tell the good news that the Netherlands is doing so well. The citizens have had to give up their purchasing power for three years. Despite economic growth, despite low inflation and despite the CPB's belief that wages will rise by 1.4% next year, purchasing power will not improve, zero next year. How will the Minister ensure that people will also improve their purchasing power next year? Or is it taken from them right away? Finally, the modal breadwinners. In addition to the elderly, this group pays the price of government policy. They're victims of the PvdA's leveling party. They are excluded from all fees and remissions, are cut off on their children, receive substantial rent increases and lose part of their tax discount. This group of hardworking Dutch can't make ends meet at this time. It concerns 87,000 families. What is the Minister of Social Affairs going to do to serve this group of hardworking Dutch, the breadwinners? What the Netherlands needs is more purchasing power and less unemployed. On both points, the cabinet is clearly failing. So not keep course, but change course. That's what it takes!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u113	Mr. Chairman. It goes "spectacularly well" in the Netherlands. Those were the words of the Prime Minister during the election debate at RTL4. The Prime Minister referred to the CPB figures we are now debating. This ruling is a blow to the face of 645,000 unemployed Dutch people. Many families live in great uncertainty. They want nothing more than work, but next year unemployment will fall only marginally. This was yet another light statement from the Prime Minister. He has no idea what's going on in the country. The people at home do not see a cabinet fighting unemployment with effective means. No, this cabinet is charging these people with high taxes, less pensions, high excise duties, high rents, less mortgage interest relief, a tax on income tax, an additional tax on holiday money and a tax from Brussels which is being paid with a smile and whose receipts are still not available. That's a spectacular list, but less unemployed doesn't make it. Let us look at the surrounding countries, over the dikes. We see a sharp fall in unemployment there. In the Netherlands unemployment has risen by 30% over the last three years. In Germany, the neighbour with whom we trade the most, unemployment has fallen by 10%. The prospects there are better, because there is no budget cut. However, the cabinet calls from the highest tower that it is doing better thanks to cabinet policy. No, it's getting better despite government policy. Can the government state why unemployment in Germany is at about the lowest point in the last 20 years and unemployment in the Netherlands at about the highest point in the last 20 years? If we had Germany's unemployment rate, 200,000 people would be working more than they are now. If all these questions cannot be answered at once, what we would understand, is the government prepared to have this investigated so that we can learn from them? Does the cabinet want to order the WRR, the CPB or anyone else to do so? We want people to go to work and we do not happen to take Germany as an example. That country is our main trading partner. Moreover, we believe that unemployment can also be tackled by reducing the burden on labour. That has been said before today. It must become more attractive to employ people. It is quite absurd that the tax rates in the Netherlands are such that you pay about 50% of every extra earned euro when you earn something above average. A lower tax on labour must be taken into account in the tax reform that has been advocated for a long time. The cabinet does not yet have an idea about how to implement this tax reform, but the CDA is happy to help: a lower tax and a smaller government so that society can grow again and also a strong SMEs. What is the response of Minister Asscher to the proposal to limit the payment of wages in the event of illness for SMEs? This is always referred to as the stumbling block for growing companies to employ people. All this will lead to more jobs and less unemployment. The CDA was also always of the opinion that windfalls should not be acclaimed. With these CPB figures, too, we still have a public debt of EUR 468 billion. If we do not pay them back now, our children and grandchildren must do so. So let's not pretend we can throw money around right now. Sinterklaas arrives on December 5th and not on the evening before March 18th. We must avoid spending extra money again, which means that we have to cut back hard on the next economic crisis. Because also in 2014 we spent 17 billion more than it came in. In 2015, that will still be 12 billion as predicted. Those aren't small amounts. A week before the elections, promising cuts in taxes is logical, and I'm sure it's possible. But handing out a bonus once in a while doesn't make sense. For the CDA, it is clear that the government has to spend less structuralally if it wants to reduce structural burdens. That's stewardship. The CDA stands for a thrifty government that looks after the pennies well. That may not be spectacular, but it is something that will make the Netherlands better in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u114	Like D66, the CDA wants to make additional cuts and a smaller government. I have a simple question. Mr Koolmees did not give me the list, but what would the CDA want to do? What's his proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u115	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Nijboer for letting me speak. I would also like to thank him, also on behalf of Mr Koolmees, for devoting all his interruptions and speaking time to the better electoral programmes, namely those of the CDA and D66, and not to those of the Labour Party. You must be of terrible poverty if you are in government for two and a half years and your election posters are only about the other parties; maybe she has her own ideas. The government agreement includes net reversals of 6 billion in 2015, 3 billion in 2016 and 3 billion in 2017. If Mr Nijboer says that there is no turning back or that this is absolutely unacceptable, he will lose his own coalition agreement. If Mr Nijboer wants to look into the counter-budget, he can do so. He read it. He has therefore seen that, for example, we do not subsidise the 100 million for the recruitment of medical specialists, as the Labour Party does. He also saw that we're not doing the job plans. And he's seen that we're removing certain subsidies on the semi-electric car. The latter has been partially taken over because it is a good policy. I thank the government for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u116	I am not so keen on the fact that this cabinet has taken difficult measures, which I have acknowledged, but that new cuts, in other words new measures, are bad for economic recovery and employment, to which Mr Omtzigt's CDA attaches great importance. I ask him: why on top of that argue for additional cuts? I have, of course, read the CDA's counter-budget very well, and it also said that doctors, teachers, nurses, soldiers, people working in the government and police officers are put on the zero line, when they haven't had anything extra in their pocket for years. What is social about that, what is economically sensible about it and why does the CDA want it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u117	I doubt whether Mr Nijboer has read the electoral programme properly. It is true that we are always a bit more economical than the Labour Party, because we know that every euro must be earned; thank you for that compliment. Indeed, the government needs to be more economical, but in the safety chain, for example, we are making a number of additional investments. We were the only party to vote against the budget for security and justice because we said that there is not enough money in it. And let's get the Cabinet to come up with a letter the year wasn't even six weeks old and say it wasn't right. Same goes for the DOD. For example, we did not have any extra money for doctors, as Mr Nijboer said in the event of interruption. We had an extra 100 million in savings on that. Mr Nijboer can simply check that in our counter-budget. Exactly what he doesn't say, we do. He'd be honored if he had read the counter-budget a little better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u118	Mr. Chairman. I'm replacing colleague Carola Schouten tonight. Last week's CPB figures show that we are slowly climbing out of the valley. The growth rates for this year and next year are hopeful. The measures taken by the government in recent years with the support of the Christian Union have now shown their impact. The support to the cabinet has been mainly linked to our ideals. For example, we have worked successfully to preserve child schemes, employment, the focus on the region and sustainable growth. At the same time, I am well aware that people in the country still notice very little of it. It's getting better, but not everyone's gonna take advantage of it. Last year, the number of customers from the food bank even increased by 11%. The development of purchasing power is lagging behind and is even at zero for next year. My group is particularly concerned about the persistently high unemployment rates. Let's not stare blindly at the CPB figures. Unemployment in some regions is much higher than the national average. In Flevoland unemployment is 12%, in Emmen 14% and in Enschede 18%. In Drenthe and Friesland, 40% of the unemployed have been at home for over a year. The Christian Union continues to insist that the creation of employment, particularly in the vulnerable regions, should remain the top priority of the cabinet. The Ministers for Economic Affairs and Social Affairs, in their response to the figures, writes that they pay attention to the specific groups, such as young people and the elderly. It is good to give these groups an extra support. The Christian Union has always been committed to this in recent years. Unfortunately, I have to say that the cabinet continues to stain blindly for what is happening in the regions. The regions really deserve more attention from this cabinet. Provinces and regional business are taking good steps with the regional action plans. I ask the cabinet what it is doing in concrete terms for these regional employment projects. The cabinet has more work to do. I refer to the transition to sustainable energy supply. It is quite clear that we cannot continue with the extraction of gas at present. Last week we discussed this. My group's position on this is clear: the gas tap must be closed further. I also call on the cabinet to make serious work of the tax review. The burden on labour must be reduced. It should be more attractive for employers to return to employment. Will the cabinet really speed up so that taxes on labour can be reduced quickly? Some parties are proposing additional cuts in order to reduce the burden quickly. My group considers it irresponsible to make additional cuts now, particularly in the area of health care and social security. We must avoid the vulnerable groups, with the chronically ill, the disabled and the welfare families explicitly mentioned. Finally, I would like to draw particular attention to the position of families. The Nibud reported today that there are 87,000 families with a modal income of one breadwinner. These families are a risk group. They grab just next to the surcharges and have to turn every dime to keep the head above the water. The same applies to welfare families with multiple children. What message does this cabinet have for these families?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u119	Mr. Chairman. The figures from the Central Planning Bureau show that things are improving. Economic growth is going through this and next year more vigorously. That recovery didn't go by itself. Sacrifices have been asked and made. Every Dutchman has a lot to ask for, but that makes things better now. No one alone can claim this success. We slept with each other, entrepreneurs, doctors, nurses, construction workers, contractors, housemothers, grandparents and grandmothers. That's our strength. That's the power that put our country back on course. The policy is also paying off. That policy is a step in the right direction. There is no button that will allow employment to grow again in one go. It's a step-by-step. It starts with putting public finances in order. This is a prerequisite for economic growth. Major deficits lead to uncertainty among people and thus uncertainty in the economy. A deficit is nothing but a deferred tax increase or a deferred tax cut. If the deficit is in order, when the finances come together, you'll see that the exports are attracting. So it turns out. Industry and transport are in the elevator. Then we see the increase in business investment. Companies dare to invest again. That is what we are seeing now. I ask the cabinet in which sectors this growth in exports is in. We have heard the good news that a record of EUR 3.2 billion in foreign investment has been made in the Netherlands. How many additional jobs do these investments lead to? What should we do to keep these investments here over the next few years and to further increase them? As exports rise, you will see that consumer confidence is growing, and that too is reflected in the CPB figures. People spend more and then jobs follow. That is also what we are seeing: this year and next year there will be 90,000 jobs. People are into it again. They return to the labour market and look for work. All good signals! The omens also remain favorable, as confirmed in a Rabobank report this morning. Some say that the economic recovery is driven by the lower price of oil and the lower price of the euro. How's the cabinet looking at this? It is the image of the VVD that the recovery is much wider and that it is mainly a backwind. In our view, the most important thing is that we have the basics of our economy in order. The results will be visible. For example, Mrs Van Spirit of the Central Planning Bureau said that we are out of the crisis. Every CPB estimate is more positive. That is good news, because it seems to me that it is because it is March and not yet Princess' Day and there are other CPB figures going in the right direction. The VVD believes that this is good news, because we still have two priorities: security and the tax review. As far as we are concerned, it is a precondition for the tax review that it is accompanied by a tax reduction. It's going well and that's why we're going to keep course for the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u120	The VVD is campaigning with the 1.2% deficit, which shows that it is moving in the right direction with public finances. At the same time, Mr Mulder says that money is needed for gas, extra safety and reduction of charges. Does the VVD agree that the deficit falls back to 1.9% of the coalition agreement? Is it prepared to finance the reduction of charges in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u121	The coalition agreement is based on 1.9%. We now see that we are ahead of that schedule and what we are ahead of schedule, we can use. But then it has to be like this and we'll see it on Prince's Day. We can indeed use this financial space to finance the tax reform.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u122	That is a clear answer: the VVD wants the deficit to rise to 1.9%.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u123	The coalition agreement is based on 1.9%, and we are sticking to that. We are ahead of schedule, and so we can use that amount for a tax reform that will allow us to reduce the burden on labour in order to further boost economic growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u124	I find it remarkable that Mr Mulder says: some people say that things are going well because of the lower price of the euro and the lower price of oil. That sounds a bit like Mr Mulder doesn't think so himself. If he is, I think he is the only one in the Netherlands. He's got a jubilee story. I don't expect anything else from the VVD. But can he tell me how many jobs we've lost and how many unemployed have joined us since the beginning of this cabinet period?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u125	That's a few questions in one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u126	That was one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u127	They are a few comments and questions like: who does Mr Mulder mean? Let's start with the jobs. What would have happened if we had carried out the SP election program? 285,000 jobs would have been destroyed. Luckily, we didn't do that. So it's good news that the SP isn't in the cabinet. As I said, we do not have a button to turn on the engine under employment at once. You need to get the finances in order first. Then, exports, business investments and consumers attract confidence. Only then will employment come to steam. That is happening now, because we are gradually moving in the right direction. All this is happening thanks to government policy. Mr Merkies asked: who are those some? One of them is there, Mr Van Dijck. He's waving at me, even though this remark isn't meant to be nice at all. I started by saying that we need to put the finances in order, because that is a basic condition. However, when that was discussed at the Catshuis in April 2012, Mr Wilders and the Wilders group sprinted away for their responsibility, but that aside. I just said it anyway. We can see it slowly moving in the right direction. I asked about the euro and the price of oil, because other countries also benefit from those lower prices. France, for example, is doing the same thing, but it is not doing very well there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u128	I'm sorry, you just call the number right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u129	It's already been mentioned. There were over 400,000 and we are now at 645,000. So that's a big increase. If you want to solve that, you need to get things in order. After that, you'll see that employment is rising. We must continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u130	The number's out. There are 150,000 unemployed. You can look at all kinds of theoretical models for the long term, but this is the reality: 150,000 unemployed. That is the result of this cabinet policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u131	No, the results of government policy are coming up now. 90,000 jobs will be added this year and 90,000 jobs will be added next year. So we're heading in the right direction. It hurt for a while, that's inevitable, but I'm fine now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u132	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u133	I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u134	Madam President. Perhaps it is a good thing that we should start this debate on the CBS figures with a few reflections on those CBS figures. Mr. Klaver said there's no need for euphoria. He was right to say that: that's the way it is. There's no need for euphoria. But we can see that a change has been made and we can see that the trend is positive. In order to achieve this, a great deal of work has been done by the entrepreneurs, by the workers, especially by the civil servants. Painful measures have been taken and the consequences of these painful measures have been taken. That wasn't for nothing. I told you, the trend is positive. I'm sure there's still uncertainty. We now have the conviction that if we keep our course, if we manage to hold on to what we have been doing, if we continue to work and if we can achieve further improvements, we will be able to maintain this trend. It's good to face that trend. The budget deficit in 2008 was 5.5%. For next year, the budget deficit is estimated at 1.2%. There was a 4.5% shelf life deficit that hung us over the head like a doom. This has now turned into a sustainability surplus of 0.5%. Collective expenditure on gross domestic product fell from 47.3% to 45.1% over three years. Ultimately, it must come from growth in the number of jobs. In the last quarter of last year, 42,000 jobs were added. As Mr Nijboer said, this year is expected plus 90,000 and next year is expected plus 90,000. There is economic growth where we have had to deal with shrinkage for a few years. Last year there was already a start of growth and this year that growth has doubled. We are now expected to be at a rate of 1.7 in the Netherlands for the year 2015, while the latest estimate for the euro area was 1.3%. So you can see that thanks to the measures that have been taken, we are getting the trend back in the right direction. What is below this economic growth of 1.7% this year? First of all, that is exports. The exports that have also maintained us in the period of crisis, which have been maintained and which are now estimated at between 4.5% and 5% for the current year and for the following year. Under the growth of exports there is a solid basis: the growth of investment. Growth is expected for this year and for next year in business investment of between 5% and 6%. In addition to exports and investment, we now also see that household consumption is increasing. It has decreased for several years in a row, but the change has been made over the past year. Then there was a very small increase in household consumption. However, an increase of 1.5% in consumption is expected for this year and an increase of 1.7% for next year. In this way, a solid basis has been laid for economic growth. If we can hold on to that basis, if we continue to work hard, if we stick to the measures that have been taken and respond adequately to developments in the future, we can hope and expect that we will be able to maintain this trend. The ultimate goal of maintaining that trend is to involve everyone in society as much as possible, including in the form of work. That starts with creating jobs and then you see, in response, the number of unemployed is falling. We have seen that the price of oil has fallen, as has the euro rate. This has stimulated economic growth, not only in the Netherlands but also in the other countries of the euro area. Since we had already laid a foundation in the Netherlands with exports, investments and the increase in consumption, you can see that the trend already started has been reinforced by the lower oil price and the lower euro rate. This is an incentive that we can now take in and that we must use to maintain and strengthen the trend.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u135	There used to be a radio program in which the water levels were broadcast. Then all you could hear were numbers forever. That's what this looks like. Let me also do something with the 'water levels', because there is a bit of selective shopping. I am simply taking the figures from the European Commission; I think they are fairly reliable figures. When I look at the growth rates, for example, I see that we have fallen dramatically behind in recent years, both on Europe and globally. Take 2013. At the time, the Netherlands fell considerably, with 0.7%. Europe did nothing, it was 0%. Worldwide, we went up 3.3%. You actually see this for the other years. Only this year will we do the same as the European average. Next year, however, we are once again lagging behind the European average. To mention just two water levels: 1.7% for the Netherlands, 2.1% for the EU and 4% for the world. In the world things are much better than in Europe and a lot better than in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u136	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u137	What's that all about? I would like to mention one more number, which I do not hear anything about at all, namely that 0% for purchasing power next year. Why doesn't the Minister mention that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u138	It is amazing that I am being called to the Chamber to talk about the CBS figures and that Mr Merkies will then come forward and wave figures from the European Commission. It seems as if we are looking for figures that fit in with an image that we have already established in advance, for which we hope to find support in those figures. We have the CBS figures here. The CBS has estimated growth of 1.7% for the year 2015 for the Netherlands and 1.8% for the following year. The latest figures on the euro area at my disposal show a growth of 1.3% for the current year, i.e. for 2015. So in that you can see that there is a trend. We are now ahead of the estimates where we were first lagging behind. The cover has been realized. He didn't just show up. This is not a reason for euphoria, but it is wise to note that the results have now been achieved and that it is in the interests of the people in our country to retain this, so that we ultimately involve as many people as possible in society through work. Why should we not be satisfied with this trend change?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u139	To correct the Minister, we did not call him to the Chamber to talk about the CBS figures, but about the figures of the Central Planning Office, the CPB. By the way, I did mention the CBS figures. They may also refer to the last thing the minister said about "involving everyone." They show a threefold increase in long-term unemployment. How does the Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u140	Long-term unemployment can only be solved by creating more jobs. We have had a number of years in which fewer jobs were created. That is why we have taken measures. That's what the coalition agreement was about. You can see that the number of jobs has grown by 42,000 in the last quarter of 2014. The number is expected to grow again this year, as will next year. It is precisely this growth that allows people who have been on the sidelines for longer or shorter periods to find a job and get involved. I was indeed called to the Chamber for the CPB figures. I have given the CPB figures, the expectations for economic growth for this year and next year. I think the development is positive. We were first lagging behind, in a difficult situation and have taken measures to get out of it. Now it appears that these measures are working. Not only does exports remain strong and continue to grow, but the underlying investment by industry is also expected to grow 5 to 6% this year and next year. Domestic spending is also growing, so that sectors which have so far not been able to participate in this growth, such as construction and catering, will also be able to improve this year. Then it is good to see that everything we have worked out for, that is to say, the measures that have been taken and the sacrifices that we have asked of the people, is now achieving results. If you've been able to achieve that trend change, it's good to keep the course and continue on that road.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u141	The Minister has not yet answered my question about the 0% increase in purchasing power for next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u142	For the first time this year, there is also an increase in purchasing power, even a significant increase. For household consumption, an increase of 1.5% and 1.7% is also expected this year and next year. What exactly the purchasing power figures for next year are going to look like is influenced by two things, first and foremost by inflation. An inflation rate of 0.1% is expected this year. A slightly higher inflation rate of 0.9% is expected next year. This inflation affects purchasing power. The measures that the government will take in the 2016 budget also affect purchasing power. When dealing with the 2016 budget, we will look at how purchasing power is working. Based on the hard figures currently available, the CPB can now conclude that for this year and for next year a significant growth of 1.5% and 1.7% is possible for household consumption. These are the key figures we are talking about and what we are all doing it for. I come to the contributions of the spokesmen. Mr Mulder has asked what the growth of exports is in. Dutch exports do not depend on a part of our economy. We have an increase in exports in the agricultural sector. We have a growth in the high-tech industry. We have a growth in services. It is good that, in addition to export growth, improvements are now being made in the sectors that need to have domestic market. Mr Mulder mentioned foreign investment. The Netherlands is indeed a very attractive country to invest there. We notice that year in, year out. Last year we saw 190 companies from abroad coming to the Netherlands, with the involvement of the NFIA, the Dutch service that does so. This year there is again a similar number of companies, 47 of which have established their headquarters for Europe in the Netherlands. We have seen that the amount they invest from 2 billion in 2013 has reached 3 billion in 2014. You can see that the attractiveness of the Netherlands, also for companies elsewhere in the world, is there. This has now resulted in foreign companies in the Netherlands accounting for 1 million jobs. Mr Mulder was right to say that the low oil price and the low euro exchange rate are having an effect. He described it as a backwind and that's how it is. The trend is set. The underlying figures are sound. We have backwinds of oil and the euro. It's very good to hold on to that. Mr Van Dijck says: ask the Central Planning Office what would have happened. So that's not what we're gonna do. We don't ask that kind of thing at the Central Planning Office. The task of the Central Planning Bureau is to analyse the factual situation, to take the facts into account and then to make the best possible estimates on the basis of these facts. We can then also base our policies on these estimates. That's what the Central Planning Bureau does every time. That's what they're doing this time. In that they are absolutely not influenced by the cabinet. They're doing it on their own. On this basis, we can identify the situation at the moment and determine what our task is for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u143	I asked that question because the image gets rather clouded. Because of the fact that the oil price is halved, people obviously have a little more purchasing power. I do not know if the Minister is going to fill up, but it is now considerably more attractive to start filling up than a few months ago. In other words, the oil price, the euro rate and the inflation rate -- we even have negative inflation for this year, the CPB predicts -- all of them have an impact on prices and therefore on a piece of consumption and a piece of purchasing power. But the cabinet wants to know to what extent government policy has been effective or is slowing down economic growth? It would be very good if the CPB would pass that on. I think it is a small effort to take last year's figures and simply put the oil price at USD 108, put the euro at USD 1.35 and apply a normal inflation rate of 2.6%. Then you could see what government policy has done to growth, unemployment and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u144	We are certainly not going to ask the CPB to make calculations on the basis of an oil price twice as high as the actual oil price. As well as an increase in the price of oil and a stronger euro, we are simply taking it. This is taken into account in the actual figures on which you base the estimates. If the euro is less strong and if the price of oil is lower, you will also process it in the figures, and you will base the new estimates on that. That is perfectly normal and that is how we act consistently. We are not going to make separate estimates, depending on parts of the whole picture. That, of course, makes very little sense. What the Cabinet has made possible is what I said. The trend break that has been put in place had already been realised before the oil price went down and the euro rate weakened. The trend had already started and the euro and the oil price gave it backwind. The cabinet has done three essential things to make that change possible. First of all, public finances have been put in order. We have been able to experience what has been necessary in recent years. As I have already said, the budget deficit went from 5.5% to 1.2% next year. At the same time, it has been ensured that the impact of collective expenditure on gross domestic product has been reduced and that the sustainability deficit has been eliminated. Secondly, a number of fundamental reforms have been carried out, such as those relating to retirement age, healthcare costs, education, the labour market and the housing market. These fundamental reforms have had an effect. Thirdly, we have supported entrepreneurs, by giving them room, by improving access to finance, by supporting entrepreneurial innovation and by reducing regulatory pressure. These are concrete measures that have been taken. These measures have ultimately had an effect, where we have now been able to absorb the backwind and the trend break has been realised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u145	The minister still calls it backwind. I say that the crucial wind has been to make these figures a little rosy. In 2013, the situation was normal, with normal inflation, a normal oil price and a normal euro position. Then the economy fell, then consumption fell, then purchasing power was negative and then unemployment was negative. I would simply like to know to what extent government policy has been effective in terms of purchasing power, consumption and jobs. Surely the Minister agrees with me that if we want to stimulate growth, we must have jobs, we must have fewer unemployed and we must have more purchasing power. That hasn't happened in the last few years. Thanks to negative inflation and lower oil prices, we now have a little purchasing power, but not thanks to government policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u146	Mr Van Dijck says that it would be different if the price of oil and the euro were normal and that we should take a look at that. Who knows what's normal? All I know is what the reality is. One year is the reality as far as the oil price is concerned, and the next year it is. One year is the reality in terms of inflation, the other year is the reality. You go out of reality every time, and based on that, you come up with your estimates. It is not that we want to stimulate growth and that we want to start now. I have just listed the three broad lines of that policy.............................................................................................................................. That's not vague growth. It is a growth caused by an increase in exports. For a number of years now, even in difficult times, we have been able to hold on to those exports. With the backwind, that export is increasing. It is very good to see that our companies are strong in the world market. There is a lower price of oil all over the world. The fall in the euro rate applies to all countries. As you can see, in global competition, our companies manage to achieve growth of between 4% and 5% from year to year. This is the profit that has been made in combination with the increased consumption of households in the Netherlands, allowing the other economic sectors to grow as well. That is the hard basis under the trend change that has been realized. That backwind is there, I certainly won't deny it. It is important to use it wisely. That's what the Cabinet is doing. I'll get to the insecurities. I told you, euphoria is not a reason. There's a good reason to keep course. There are uncertainties and they are known. As an exporting country and internationally oriented country, the Netherlands is naturally sensitive to international developments. Fortunately, growth in the world is greater than growth in the Netherlands, which offers additional opportunities for the Netherlands to catch up. However, there are also geopolitical tensions. That is also a reality. We don't know how it's gonna work out. So there's every reason to be careful, no euphoria. We are trying to hold on to what we have achieved and the recovery that has been deployed. We don't do that for the numbers. In the end, we are not together today for the CPB figures. We are together for the Dutch people, the people who have worked hard for it, the people who want to work hard for it and who now, thanks to the trend change, also get perspective on work to do more to our society through work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u147	Mr. Chairman. The Minister for Economic Affairs explained the figures in a broad sense and provided a sober explanation. I shall deal with the budgetary side and the preliminary conclusions drawn by the cabinet. After all, Mr Mulder was right to point out that they are only provisional figures. That budgetary picture looks much more favourable than on Princess Day, when we presented it in our Millions Note. That is the heart of the debate. When we discussed this last time, in the Financial Reviews, we all had very different expectations. I'll come back to that in a minute. Where are we now? According to the CEP figures, the EMU balance improves and we will eventually reach -2.6 in 2014, this year at -1.8 and in 2016 at -1.2. That goes much and much faster than expected with the Millions Note. Then it was 2.4 for next year. So we're cut in half. What is it? 5 months. At that time we thought the deficit would be twice as high next year. So we are now on half of what we expected on Prinsjesdag, at least if these figures come out in 2016. It is also much more positive in relation to the coalition agreement. Then we expected to reach -1.9. There's room over there. There are opportunities in that. That is what this debate is about. In the General Financial Reviews (AFB), we also had a discussion about the question: do we need cuts? Then we agreed not to have taboos. This was about all kinds of subjects, but also about them. There aren't, but the question is now the next one. What do you do when you see you don't have to, when there's so much space? If I am asked whether I exclude cuts, then the Minister of Finance says: never. You can't do that. If the budget fails, we will intervene. If the expenditure framework is exceeded, then of course we are going to press it, because that is how the budgetary rules are. I do not rule it out, but the question that is at issue is: does the cabinet intend to come up with additional charges and to make additional savings after this huge package that we have had to roll out on the Netherlands in order to get the budget in order? Does the cabinet intend to make further cuts in order to allow for this reduction? The answer to that is no. That was so on Prince's Day, that was so with the General Financial Reviews, and it still is. Mr Koolmees was nuanced about that. I took his old motion once more. He asked the cabinet to look for room for expenditure restrictions if there were insufficient windfalls. Mr Pechtold then came to that point. The sources have already been mentioned. Under the heading of "revenge" I personally do not like that at all, but well, that is an attitude of life, it is said: there must be savings! That 13 billion I would have mentioned, I didn't make it up. D66 has said: this is the space in which can be cut. I understand that as: we are going to cut 13 billion. I don't think I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u148	The Minister has spread some panic over the last few days, because he knows the 13 billion very well from the AFB debate we held in September last year. At that time I said: if there are insufficient windfalls in the tax review...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then I mentioned 13 billion in this sense: public expenditure is rising from 250 billion to 263 billion. That's the 13 billion. The Minister of Finance is making this a campaign trick by saying that we want to cut 13 billion. That has never been the case. The Minister of Finance knows that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u149	That is a reassuring statement in itself, but as I said, Mr Koolmees is considerably more nuanced than his political leader, and also group chairman of D66. He's making tougher statements about that. Mr Koolmees should not be surprised that he is getting the question back, including from the Minister of Finance, who takes all the remarks of D66 extremely seriously: can we just know how much you want to cut back and above all what you want to do? That's what the debate is about. That clarity is still in the air.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u150	The aim is the tax review, let us agree on that. It's 3 to 5 billion next year. A simple question. Is there now at least 3 billion available for the start of that tax review in 2016?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u151	Mr Koolmees asked that question in the first place. I'll be right there. I want to build my speech. Is that all right with Mr Koolmees?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u152	The Minister of Finance blames me. The essence is that D66 has always said that we want this tax review. The start will be in 2016 and that will require 5 billion. If that 3 billion is minimal, that's good news and Secretary of State Wiebes can get to work. I am now hearing statements from all kinds of rulers in the vein of 'go to sleep quietly, it is coming', but I do not have a firm commitment yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u153	Nor can that firm commitment, because, I quote Mr Mulder, these are provisional figures. When I look at the figures, I have also said it in the media. I see an area of 0.7 in relation to the balance path of the coalition agreement. I have already mentioned this in the debate on the General Financial Reviews, because at that time the question was asked as to what is a windfall and what. I said at that time that my starting point is the balance path of the coalition agreement. That was very ambitious at the time, because we were on -2.4 for 2016 and the balance path was 1.9. Now we're gonna move on to -1.2. I see 0.7 space there. If that were to become a reality, because we still have to look at the expenditure frameworks, Mr Koolmees knows the system. I see 4.5 billion in space there. Mr Koolmees says immediately that we have a billion dollars to go to the Defense Department. I didn't say that. He has already spent half of it, while the cabinet said on Princess Day that it is going to carry out that tax review and that the burden on labour should be reduced. That's our priority. If space is created in the years to come, it is our priority. D66 then came up with new priorities: the AIVD, Defence, this and that and all kinds of spending wishes, but that is not how we get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u154	I mentioned these things because I read the blog of the Minister of Finance, which says that there is a windfall of 4.5 billion, that we are going to reserve 1.5 billion for gas and that money should be reserved for security, because there is already a letter from the Cabinet about 128 million. Now there's a rumor that Mrs. Hennis wants money, too. If you're gonna peel that off, you're gonna be under 3 billion. Does the Minister of Finance agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u155	No. You're not just gonna call it random numbers and then say, if we add this up and add it down, we're gonna be under three billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u156	That's exactly, Mr. Chairman, that's exactly...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u157	No, no. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u158	The only thing we know about this debate is the CPB estimates, the latest figures, which are much more favourable. That could be the escape for Mr Koolmees, because he said with his motion: only if I have to, I want additional cuts. At least that was a nuanced position. It is not the cabinet's intention, because the cabinet does not want to make additional cuts over the enormous burden it has already spread over the Netherlands. It was the escape for Mr Koolmees, because he could have said: my motion was already sensible, 'only if it has to'. We are looking at the figures now and we don't have to, we shouldn't. I would say, do not do it to the people of the Netherlands to make more cuts. No, that is where Mr Pechtold comes in with a harsh statement: support will be denied unless additional cuts are made. Why? That is the only question we are asking here. What's it for?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u159	Now I'm a little confused. Last Sunday I read a blog from the Minister of Finance, who says there is a windfall of 4.5 billion, but that there are also some setbacks, like the gas. I'm not making this up myself, the Minister of Finance writes this last Sunday. Now I ask him if there is enough room for that relief, because in the same blog he writes that there is enough money for the relief, and he answers that he doesn't know yet, that they are all predictions, that there is a need to be careful and that it can be looked at better later. Then it's campaign rhetoric in the finance minister's blog, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u160	Again, all we know is the CPB numbers. These show a difference between the coalition chord path of 1.9, which was leading for me, and the estimate of 1.2. There's 0.7 in here, and that's 4.5 billion. If Mr Koolmees wants to spend all that on Defense, he can. The cabinet is giving priority to a reform of the system, which requires much more than 3 to 5 billion. That 3 to 5 billion is just the lubricating oil. We have a much greater ambition to make a shift and an economically smarter tax system. We're gonna do the same. Additional cuts in order to do this have been proposed by all kinds of proposals, which are economically unwise and not financially necessary. The voter will be left in uncertainty, but the cabinet is clear about it. A question has been asked about the price adjustment, which would offer a possible coverage. Price adjustment is mentioned as an opportunity to cut costs. The price adjustment foreseen for 2016 is 447 million, of which 156 million for education. I know a party that always wants to put education out of hand. That is very appealing to me personally, but be honest: there goes your austerity. I think that also the DOD should be out of the question, just like security etcetera, etcetera. In short, it's all unsubstantiated. Then you're gonna end up with the big expenses. I understand the fears of some groups in the Chamber that this will bring social security and health care to you. The huge interventions were needed to get the budget in order; they were therefore justifiable, because the budget had to be put in order, the country had to get out of the way. But to argue now for the knife to go deeper, it is really politically incomprehensible. That seems to me to have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u161	Mr. Chairman. I agree with Jesse Klaver. I say that not only because he reads beautiful books, but also because he thinks there is no reason for euphoria. Fortunately, he has also acknowledged that things are doing much better. Mr Kamp and Mr Dijsselbloem have outlined this. Since April 2014, you can see that the number of people working is increasing. In March 2014 there were over 8.1 million workers, in January this year there were 118.000 more. The Central Planning Bureau expects the number of people at work to grow by 1.1% this year and next year; that is 90,000 extra people. That's a huge job increase. That's a balance, so that really adds up. That's certainly no reason to be satisfied. While unemployment has been falling for about six months, it needs to fall faster. The following matters are important for this. The economic recovery must continue and we must ensure that all the changes we have made succeed. People also need to turn increased confidence into investment, into purchases, and businesses need to grow again and exports need to grow further. Purchasing power will also improve significantly this year. It's 1.2% more, so it's also a lot more than the Central Planning Bureau anticipated in the last estimate. Here is what Minister Dijsselbloem wrote: in the five months since Princess Day there has been a significant improvement. No, that's not just because of government policy; of course not. We have the wind in our backs, we have the economic factors. However, it is equally nonsense to pretend that the improvement has nothing to do with government policy. The budget has been put in order. The economy is growing again. Purchasing power is increasing. There's gonna be jobs. Now it's time to go through with the recovery. That is at the heart of this debate. Do we give the recovery a chance to continue? Are we going to continue to increase employment? Are we going to implement a tax reform, not to take revenge, but to create more jobs? Then we have a good chance that we will recover in the years to come. That's what this cabinet stands for. However, there are, among others at the Nibud, figures showing that there are groups that are not doing well. One of the examples was mentioned by Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Van Dijck. Families with children in welfare and single-income families, householders, are having a relatively difficult time. That is something that rightly needs to be taken into account. That is something that has already been mentioned in a motion for a resolution. We are therefore taking a number of specific measures to alleviate them. In order to avoid these groups, for example, we have made the phasing-out of child schemes less acute, so that this year more people keep their child-related budget. That's one way to soften that. Also for the coming years, 2016 has already been mentioned, we do not yet know where it is going. Right now, the median is zero. We just go back in the summer, just like every year, to see which groups are having a hard time, which groups we have to spare. We opt for a balanced income policy, so that the purchasing power picture for 2016 also looks neat.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u162	Can the Minister also comment on the new definition that has emerged? We are now talking very nicely about 90,000 jobs and about an increase in the working population. You used to have a job if you were working at least 12 hours a week. That was the national definition. Now you already have a job if you work two hours a week. You used to work between 15 and 64. Today it has risen to 74. In other words, the working-age population has grown by a million purely through statistics and other definitions. Does the Minister recognize this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u163	No. The 90,000 increase is an increase calculated in the same way as last year. Employment is rising, whether you like it or not. I like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u164	Is it true that 12% of the working population of 8.2 million have a job of less than 12 hours? So there are a million people who have jobs of less than 12 hours. According to the definition at the time, they would now be unemployed, but according to the present definition they are not. A million people have a job of less than 12 hours. They no longer appear in the statistics as unemployed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u165	The figures are simply compared with last year's figures. It can be seen that employment is rising by 118 000 compared to April last year and by 90 000 this year. The definition has been looked at in the same way, even when it comes to the smaller jobs. Employment is rising. She needs to rise even harder. We need to get more jobs. Economic growth must continue to translate into more jobs, because more people are going to apply and there are young people coming back from schools and training. They all need to find a job. The labour market absorbs them now, so unemployment is falling, but still too slowly. Our ambition is to increase employment faster. But no, it is not the case that the increase in employment is due to a definition issue. It is due to economic growth, because companies are hiring people again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u166	I welcome the fair approach of the Minister for Social Affairs. It indicates that the growth in the number of jobs comes from the market sector, from economic growth. The CPB rightly points out that there are more jobs and that too many people remain unemployed. However, this growth in the number of jobs is partly offset by public policy, for example by fewer jobs in the care sector. If the cabinet has any influence on anything now, it is on employment in the public sector. What is the Minister for Social Affairs going to do to increase employment there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u167	First of all, the 90,000 jobs that are added are a balance. So they're extra. In it are absorbed the figures from where things are going less well and the figures from where things are going better. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Het zijn er 90.000 extra.]] Fortunately, there is no jobless growth. It's growth and it's job growth. We share the ambition that we should go further in this regard. We share the ambition, for example, that we should keep people at work in healthcare. That is why there is the sector plan concern. That's $200 million invested in it. That is why there is the household aid allowance, which allows 19,000 jobs to be preserved. The Central Planning Office indicates that employment itself, the working population, will grow by more than 1%. That means 90,000 more jobs. That's a balance. That's extra compared to now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u168	The fact remains that 635,000 people are unemployed this year. The CPB indicates that the number of jobs in the government is falling, including in the care sector. That can be countered by sector plans, but the number of jobs is falling there. The Minister says that we need to drive economic growth even further, and then there will be even more jobs. However, if we continue at this rate and if we do not ensure that more jobs are created in the government, we are talking not only about the civil servants, who like to be delivered here, but also about the hands on the bed, policemen in the street and teachers in the classroom, then the reduction of unemployment is going far too slowly. I do not think that is what a Social Democratic Minister wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u169	That is why we are strongly in favour of a new tax system, which makes it more attractive to employ people. I can answer Mr Dijkgraaf's question right away. It is not just about stimulating the supply of labour. We also want to make it attractive to ask for work, by reducing employers' burdens, by ensuring that people continue to earn the same wage but at lower costs, by looking at the burden of contributions and by looking at the payment of wages in the event of illness. In short, we do that by looking at all those aspects that make it sometimes unattractive to hire someone. We want this to happen. As companies are more confident, as producer confidence is good and exports and domestic spending continue to increase, there will be opportunities. I enjoyed this debate. That's what you do sometimes when you're a guest here. I think it is good that, for example, I have tried Mr Klaver's willingness to cooperate in this process, to create such a new tax system together. That's what we're gonna do. You can say: we are now going to make extra cuts out of revenge and fight economic recovery. I don't think that's a sensible course. You can also say: there is now recovery, we need stability and no new uncertainty, so continue now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u170	I have another supplementary question on this point. The Minister explains what generic measures are being taken. The 600 million is known, as is sectoral employment projects. I have also asked in my speech to what extent the Minister is considering regional employment projects. Plans are also made for each province. I have mentioned a number of figures on unemployment in Enschede of 18% et cetera. A number of regions are well above the national average. How does the Minister intend to contribute to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u171	I very much agree with Mr Voordewind. Not only should we look at what is generic for the whole country, but at the very strength of the regions. On the website of the sector plans you can see that they are increasing enormously. That's when the best thing comes out of these regions. Companies indicate where they will see their growth in the coming period. They know that better than we do here in The Hague. They make deals with the unions, also locally. Local authorities are involved. You now have a series of very strong sector plans. It may be about Groningen, which we know is difficult in terms of employment, about the Drechtsteden with a very typical economy, but also about the region around Amsterdam where opportunities are missed or about the city triangle at the Veluwe. These are all plans in which the cabinet only strengthens regional strength, leaving people at work, employing young people and creating growth. I very much believe in that. I am looking, together with Minister Kamp, at how to remove obstacles specifically around the point of frontier work...................................................................................................................................................................................... Last week I discussed with my Belgian colleague, Mr Peeters, what we can do to make this more attractive. There are opportunities and we want to seize them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u172	This is clear. I would like to thank the Minister for the additions on this point. Sectoral employment projects are clear. Can the Minister specifically look in the sectoral plans to see if more priority can be given to the shrinking regions, the areas facing additional unemployment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u173	We are very motivated in that. If I am not mistaken, the Slob/Samsom motion calls on the cabinet to look specifically at it. These are regions where it does not automatically come from heaven as manna. Then you'll have to lend a hand, but according to the laws of the economy. You need to see where the power of the companies in such a region is. That power is always there. This should be strengthened in good cooperation with local and regional authorities, employers and employees. Then the engine can turn there. You can see that in a number of plans, but we remain very alert to what we can do more for those regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u174	I'll come back to the sickness paycheck. Already in 2013, my former colleague, Mr Van Hijum, asked me to take a closer look at that. At the beginning of 2015, the reports would be there. The minister says he's gonna take a look at it now. When can we expect the reports and when can we expect a concrete proposal, so that very small entrepreneurs, especially those for which Minister Kamp was right to speak, are no longer faced with two years of pay and are therefore afraid to hire someone?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u175	That is a very good point, which is something that has been called for in Chambers. We have discussed it extensively in my budget. We have sent the investigation that has been carried out to the Chamber. You can see that in the very small companies, up to 10 employees, the risk is considered to be so high that it is indeed a factor not to hire people. We also see that it costs an awful lot of money if you would return the payment for everyone to a year. I have asked the CPB, and if it is right, we will very soon have those figures to pass on the various variants. Then we will show the Chamber not only the investigation, but also the possibilities. I am assured that those calculations will be made in April. Shortly afterwards and in time for the discussions on a tax system and the new budget, we can discuss this with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u176	I hear two points. Minister Asscher talks about the new tax system. We hope, of course, that this will be done next year, but we do not think it will be introduced into the Tax Plan. We would therefore like to insist that the government make a proposal to this effect before the summer recess, which we can discuss. It may then be dealt with in the budget. I understand there's a distinction in that. It is good that a number of things are being calculated, but if there is a concrete proposal or a preferred variant before 1 June, I think we could make meters this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u177	The cabinet is indeed planning to come forward before the summer with a cabinet response to all those researches on pay-as-you-go in case of illness, including the transfer of what you could do with it from the Central Planning Office. I think that is a valid point. I was still answering Mr Dijkgraaf's questions. We are, of course, doing more to stimulate demand for work, such as giving premiums if a company hires an unemployed young person or an older unemployed person or if it gives a disabled person a chance. We are also going to change the premium rebates on the basis of the SGP, so that the smaller companies can also benefit from them. Then they will also participate in the recruitment of these kinds of groups. That's very important. The employment discount has been substantially increased by this cabinet and this leads indirectly, but indeed, to increased demand for labour. We are taking all these measures to stimulate precisely that side of the economy. Unpaid work is no longer important, asked the SGP spokesperson. Oh, yes, I do. For example, unpaid work is seen in the form of voluntary work and informal care. This unpaid work is of great value to society. Some 5.5 million people are committed, for example through sport, music associations, community centres and civil society organisations. There are 3.5 million carers in the Netherlands. A large part of them provide long-term and/or very intensive care for a person in need in the vicinity. That is a very positive fact which we should be proud of. We have therefore recently concluded that we had to broaden somewhat the rules that people held too strict in the WW, so that they were not allowed to do that kind of volunteering. The SP spokesperson asked how the Netherlands is getting out of hand in relation to a number of other countries. How are we doing? This was also in a question from Mr Omtzigt. The Dutch labour market is relatively good in international perspective. Unemployment is much lower than average, and this is even more true of youth unemployment. Unemployment was 7.2% in January, while on average it was around 10%. Youth unemployment was 11.7%, while the average was 21.2%. Does this mean that we must be satisfied? No, of course not. The cabinet wants to further reduce unemployment. On the question of the position of the Netherlands vis-à-vis other countries, how is the Netherlands doing? One can say that youth unemployment is falling considerably and that overall unemployment has also fallen compared to a year ago. We must now, above all, keep moving forward and ensure that the recovery translates into more jobs. Long-term unemployment is a major concern. Unemployment among older workers is lower by percentage, but if these people lose their jobs, it is much harder to get back to work. We know that. That's what they tell me. It won't work with open letters. We are taking a whole series of additional measures so that we can give them a little support. One of these measures is, for example, the premium discount. An employer gets tax money back if he gives someone like that a chance. But we see that more is needed and that you need to bring employees into contact with employers, so that prejudices about older workers disappear. It's important to see what else you can do. A new instrument is the bridge-WW this year. This ensures that these workers can still be retrained to a job that is there by learning skills. I think it is very important to offer this particular group of unemployed people a perspective. So what's the difference in the numbers? This question from Mr Merkies is in a bit of a continuation of the PVV's question. I don't blame anyone for that question. It is always tricky when estimates and survey methods change. Everyone must then be able to assume that we do make the comparison between the years in a good way. That is also the case, I say immediately to reassure you. The way of surveying unemployment has been overhauled, changed. This leads to different figures and therefore you have to compare them with figures obtained in the same way in an earlier period. As a result, the unemployment rate is different in 2013. Looking back, the unemployment rate is therefore higher in 2013. Compared to that, the changes can be seen. That is a complicated technical story, but it is a good attempt to be more consistent with international comparisons. Otherwise, you're gonna keep working with different numbers at the same time. The Netherlands now uses the same definitions and methods as the surrounding countries. The CDA spokesperson asked for a comparison with unemployment in Germany, which is lower there than in the Netherlands. Germany and Austria have lower unemployment and youth unemployment than the Netherlands. In the other countries, the percentage is higher or near that of the Netherlands. In January 2015, unemployment in Germany was below 5%. All this has to do with a much more favourable cyclical trend over the last two years. We've heard about this from the Central Planning Office before. This was a detailed description of unemployment in Germany in 2012. It has told us what reforms were behind it and to what extent they were similar to the reforms in the Netherlands. In the ESB of January 2015, two employees of DNB are involved in the development of unemployment in Germany. Unfortunately, they are taking the lesson, perhaps you should say that Germany has implemented many of the measures that we have already taken here over the past decade. They conclude that the German employment miracle does not therefore provide a simple lesson for the Netherlands. The most important lesson, now that recovery has started, is that we have taken a lot of measures that should have been taken for a long time; they have remained in place for a long time. But we didn't do that for nothing. It has led to the budget finally being in order. It has enabled us to maintain the welfare state in the future, with good care, with good education and with good social security for all. It has also enabled us to benefit from economic growth once again. The most important thing we can do now is to continue the recovery, to focus our taxes on more employment and to ensure that the Netherlands not only climbs out of the valley but can actually grow. Perhaps it was too optimistic here and there to say that we are the best in Europe, but we can go to Europe's leading group by combining that growth with employment growth and taking that acceleration. We do not need new uncertainty, but we must continue with recovery.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u178	I am glad that the Minister for Social Affairs says that Mr Rutte's statement on the best in Europe was actually wrong, but that is not what my question is about. I haven't heard anything about purchasing power. I talked about the flatline we get in 2016. Here is the Minister of Purchasing Power. Of course, there has been a lot of loss of purchasing power for many years, but let's just look at the years of the cabinet, so 2013 to 2015. The lowest income group is not making any progress at all. The group that earns two to three times as much, improves €900. I'm just saying that on the basis of the Central Planning Bureau figures. Does the Minister recognize himself in that image?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u179	I need to fix a few things at once. One: I did not say that the figure mentioned by the Prime Minister was wrong, but the ambition of the Cabinet is to be at the forefront in every respect, including unemployment and employment. Two: I did talk about purchasing power in 2015 and 2016. I have specifically addressed two categories which are less favourable, and I have said what the cabinet is doing about them. Three: in the summer, as every year, we will look again at purchasing power in the budget when we have the latest insights and as forecasts have become final estimates. Then here's what we'll do. We will influence purchasing power in such a way that we will spare the vulnerable groups and put the heavy burden on the strongest shoulders. That is what we do every year in the budget. There was purchasing power growth in 2014 and there is purchasing power growth in 2015. For 2016 we see zero. The more important it is to do it right in the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u180	That sounds hopeful for 2016. Well, I guess I'll hold on to that. We have simply looked at the figures of the distribution. The lowest incomes, up to 175% of the minimum wage, are expected to rise to zero. The group that earns two to three times as much, improves €900. Does the Minister recognize himself in that? Last year, for the first time, the purchasing power figures were missing from the annual financial report of Social Affairs. Other years they were in it. That allowed us to look back on the past few years. Why did those numbers suddenly disappear? Will they be re-recorded this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u181	I don't recognize the latter. I'm always willing to provide purchasing power figures and look back. If you do that, you can see that in a series of years with a lot of measures we have been able to ensure that, despite the biggest crisis in 80 years, despite the fact that we had to do a lot to get through as a country, more has been demanded of people with higher incomes, so that people with lower incomes can be spared. For this, sacrifices have been made by people, for which we should be grateful. You can always discuss whether it should have been or could have been any more, I respect that we may disagree on this, but no one can deny that this cabinet has worked on it in the income-dependent general tax rebate, in a series of measures. That was necessary, too. The cabinet will always defend that. We see it in the purchasing power figures for 2013, 2014 and 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u182	I believe that this Minister has a lot of ambition and a lot of plans and ideas, but when he took office we had 150,000 less unemployed than we do now. These people have lost their jobs as a result of government policy, as a result of the crisis. In addition, 26,000 companies have gone overboard. The question is whether all these nice efforts with sector plans, 600 million and bridge-WW, were effective. Shouldn't we have just been focusing on purchasing power and consumption? If people start buying again, those companies won't go bankrupt. If people have money in their wallet again, that money has been taken out first, then they don't have to become unemployed. In other words, does this minister recognise that the cabinet made a mistake by not focusing on purchasing power and consumption? Will he fix this mistake for 2016? In that year, the purchasing power increase was zero, despite low inflation and low oil prices. In other words, the cabinet simply continues to increase charges.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u183	There is a part of the analysis that I do agree with. We are seeing expenditure rise again. We see that consumer confidence is increasing, and that is good for our economy. It is therefore important not to introduce new cuts now if there is no need for them at all. I think we can agree on that. You can very well discuss who's earning credit for the economic recovery. It has rightly been pointed out that a number of factors in the outside world are helping the Netherlands now. It has rightly been pointed out that parties have taken responsibility for this. There is one party that should be very quiet about that and that is Mr Van Dijck's party. That party left a smoking mess. That lot ran away hard when it got tricky. After that, the party had the biggest mouth and the biggest words about a financial system with which we would now have been a little bit Greek. And then Mr Van Dijck comes here to tell me that he would be good for the future of this country. He would have squandered it all for short-term gain. That was in his election programme and proposals. As soon as choices had to be made, Mr Van Dijck's party ran away. So no, we are not going to cut back now. The Netherlands has had the necessary time to decide. Sacrifices have been made. We are recovering and this is due to the strength and perseverance of business and people. No, Mr Van Dijck is the last person to blame this cabinet for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u184	It would please the Minister if he would just answer my questions and not judge me. If he had taken on our electoral programme, he would have seen us achieving the best results, because we are committed to reducing burdens and purchasing power, resulting in more work, more jobs, more economic growth. We got the best out of it. We ran away because we didn't want to sign for 150,000 unemployed. It's on the Minister's conscience. We were the only ones in this house who had jobs and fewer unemployed in our election programme. We had indeed set a different course and according to the CPB it was a better course. This cabinet pulled that sprint that Samsom was so scared of, to that 3%, causing a mess. It led to Kunduz with its 13 billion in burdens. The VAT has been increased, so people had nothing left in their wallets. 10,000 companies went on the bottle and 100,000 people went into the WW. And that was only 2013.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u185	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u186	I'm sorry, but we're not signing up for the death sentence of the Netherlands. You signed up for that, and you're proud of it. What matters is...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u187	Mr. Van Dijck. Mr. Van Dijck!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u188	...that this minister, with all his efforts, has 150,000 unemployed on his conscience. He can introduce job plans and bridge-WW, but as long as people don't have anything in their pockets and as long as people don't spend money, you don't have jobs, you don't have growth and you don't have business.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u189	Mr Van Dijck, that is not a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u190	Surely this minister understands that, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u191	You can indeed listen to a question in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u192	The Minister has the floor now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u193	It's crystal clear. Mr. Chairman. There is indeed finally economic growth again; Kamp said it has doubled compared to last year. You can see that employment is rising. There's 118,000 jobs added. This year 90,000 will be added and next year 90,000 will be added. That is good news, not so much for Mr Van Dijck or for the cabinet, but for the people who come home from work in the evening. That's what this cabinet is about. From the outset, we have had the task of doing it all at once: putting the budget in order, ensuring that the pain is shared fairly so that people can get through and allow economic growth. The PVV would indeed not have signed for the death sentence of the Netherlands, but for the bankruptcy of the Netherlands. Unfortunately, I did read that election program. I have seen what it was like: to spend everything as quickly as possible and, after us, to pour the flood out of the European Union and let the debts run. This is a choice which the PVV wants to sell to the Dutch people, tubers for lemons. I think the reality is that a lot of Dutch people realize that. We're from a bad time. We have had to take a lot of painful measures, but they were necessary. Now there is economic recovery, and we need to move forward, not through irresponsible experiments and not by cutting back on revenge, but by giving the Dutch and the Dutch companies the chance to grow again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u194	This brings us to the end of the government's first term. I see that not all spokesmen need a second term, but Mr Klaver van GroenLinks does. His speaking time shall be one minute and twenty seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u195	Mr. Chairman. This debate was a bit different again and it almost tastes like more. Minister Asscher said it at the end of his speech: we want the same thing, don't we? The Cabinet is also trying to do this in a good way. We all want to ensure that there is a new tax system and that the burden on labour is reduced. It has become clear in the debate that we differ on how we should do that. There are parties who want to cut back. I am pleased that the amount of 13 billion.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is the amount that D66 would like to cut now. If, like GroenLinks, you do not want to cut back, you have to acknowledge that you cannot reduce the burden on labour in a painless way. You'll have to shift burdens, and you'll have to be very clear about that. That's why GroenLinks says: multinationals, you're going to pay a lot more taxes. The load you are now avoiding through all kinds of shady constructions: forget it, because as far as we are concerned that's over. If you have a lot of capital, I'm looking at Mr Mulder and you're going to pay more taxes on that. And environmental pollutants: you lose the subsidy on your energy bill. I would like to say that a new tax system is not free. It has to be paid. Whether you do that by cutting costs or by cutting costs, it is so fair to clarify the electorate before the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u196	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet says hold course. But course where? Of course, it always depends on that. Is the course in the abyss? That's the question. The Minister for Social Affairs has mentioned a whole series of measures, particularly to combat long-term unemployment, but ultimately, after all that, the result is still a triple of long-term unemployment. I therefore hope that there will be a little more ambition in this area. What strikes me is that I am increasingly hearing in this Chamber the sound that purchasing power needs to be repaired. That's what I hear from parties who don't usually stand for it. I'll take that as a profit. I hope, however, that this not only means repairing purchasing power in general, but also looking at the purchasing power of the lowest incomes, which in recent years have simply been under-repared. I shall table a motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that purchasing power is not growing according to the CPB estimates in 2016;]] [[Whereas the purchasing power years in a row have fallen;]] [[calls on the government to come up with measures to repair purchasing power,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33566-75]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u197	My final motion is next. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the capital efficiency levy currently has a flat rate of 1.2%;]] [[calls on the Government to lift the flat tax in box 3 and replace it with a progressive tax,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33566-76]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u198	Mr. Chairman. I thank the ministers for their answers. It was like an election debate. Another week and the Labour Party is in a panic, because the Labour Party only wants to talk about the CDA and D66 and not about its own story anymore. News is that the VVD wants to increase the budget deficit to 1.9%. I find that striking, especially since there is still a campaign on 1.2%. I therefore assume that the picture will be changed. We can see that there is a windfall, at least for the time being, according to the Minister for Finance. D66 likes to put that windfall, when it comes, in for more jobs and extra purchasing power. We want unemployment to fall and people to spend more. A tax reform, which, according to the cabinet, requires 3 billion to 5 billion, can ensure this. But how big is this insecure windfall? There is no 5 billion, but is there 3 billion? Or is there enough left after the bill for turning off the gas tap, after covering up the setbacks and after all the coalition's demands for security and defence? It's still unclear. For example, this tax reform remains a free promise from the coalition, because the windfall is still, as I heard Mr Mulder say, for the time being. In all this uncertainty, it remains unclear whether it will happen this way. I hope so, but first see, then believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u199	Mr. Chairman. As I pointed out in the first term, there is no group in this house that cuts taxes as much as we do. We want an income tax for everyone of less than 23%. We want to reduce excise duties, lower VAT and lower corporate tax. You can do all that. Our plans have been calculated by the Central Planning Bureau. The economy needs to grow much harder. One of the measures that can contribute to this is the standardisation of VAT rates. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that various studies show the economic benefits of a uniform VAT rate;]] [[noting that three quarters of expenditure is at the high rate;]] [[Whereas the uniformisation of VAT rates at 15% also has a positive impact on the lower income groups;]] [[calls on the Government to standardise the VAT rate at 15%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Klaveren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33566-77]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u200	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Ministers for their clear answers to some of the questions raised. I have not asked so many questions in a debate before and received so few answers. That is a disappointing outcome of the debate. After all, if you say so firmly that extra savings need to be made, it does something with the concern of people and means something for people. I have repeatedly invited D66 to explain what these austerity plans actually consist of. The lists are known to Mr Koolmees, so he indicated time and time again, but he did not deliver them. It is truly regrettable that the voter is not told the fair story. It would help if D66 did. I hope that Mr Koolmees is prepared to do so now. I'm gonna invite him one more time, but I've actually already made the ultimate attempt. However, if he still wants to come up with that list, I invite him to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u201	"The Fair Story," that winged statement of the PvdA in the previous campaign. The fair story of the sprint to the 3%, Mr Van Dijck said just now, of the reversal of VAT, of the JSF that is not coming, of the AOW that will only be modified in 2017, of the WW where they would not arrive. All promises for the elections that were so exchanged after the elections. Mr Nijboer should not come up with "the fair story"; the PvdA does not have any story at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u202	I see another attack on the PvdA. I have just started my speech by saying that I have never asked so many questions and have never received so few answers. That is really disappointing, because if you demand so much that there are additional cuts, you increase uncertainty and that is bad for economic recovery. It would really adorn D66 to be honest and open about that. I'll stick with that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u203	One question, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u204	One question and one remark. I agree with Mr Nijboer that D66 should indeed be much clearer about this. That was the point. The question I would like to ask is that the PvdA should also be clearer. Every time I ask Mr Nijboer about the progressive capital tax, he comes up with a tax on real returns. I have to ask my question very specifically, because I only get one chance from the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u205	And very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u206	And very briefly. Is Mr Nijboer in favour of using different rates in the capital efficiency levy in box 3 as we know it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u207	Mr. Nijboer. Very briefly, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u208	I have already replied to Mr Klaver in my first term. I am in favour of a progressive system of capital taxes, taxed on real returns.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u209	I tried to ask as clearly as I could on purpose. Well, I don't know "clear," but at least as precise as possible. I shall come back to this because Mr Nijboer blames his colleagues for not being clear about what their parties stand for. Now I'm just asking where the PvdA is. Is the PvdA in favour of going to a differentiated rate in the capital efficiency charge? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u210	I am in favour of taxing capital on the basis of real return. That means that if you get more returns, you pay more taxes and if you get less returns, you pay less taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u211	A brief question from Mr Merkies. No, Mr Klaver, we are not going to have the debate again. No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u212	But, Madam President, this is a point of order. I will certainly not repeat the question. But if I ask a rather simple question and there is absolutely no answer to that, I find that regrettable and I find it unworthy of other colleagues to take the measure because they would not be clear about their choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u213	Mr. Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u214	On this point, Mr Nijboer just dives every time. So I am asking this question in a different way. I put what Mr Klaver said in a motion. I am referring here to the need for different rates, so that the flat tax should be abolished. Will Mr Nijboer support this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u215	I don't know yet; I haven't taken a good look at the motion. I know that Mr Klaver and Mr Merkies attach great importance to making this point over and over again, and I give the same answer every time: if you make more returns on the assets, the PvdA thinks that you have to pay more taxes than you now have to do in the system. That is also the proposal I would like to see from the cabinet. I call that progressive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u216	Mr Merkies, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u217	I deliberately kept the motion as short as possible. I just read it. If Mr Nijboer says he doesn't know the motion, that's a little crazy. The motion was really short. It's just a progressive tax. Why don't you just say yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u218	I am in favour of a progressive load on power, designed according to yield. If you get more returns, you pay more taxes than when you get less returns. Small savers have to pay less tax. That's what the PvdA Group stands for. I have already indicated this about eight or ten times.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u219	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Cabinet for the answers. The Minister for Social Affairs has spoken positive words about unpaid work, but words and deeds are two different things. To underline this point, I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the light of reforms in health and social security, greater commitment is called for from stakeholders;]] [[Whereas sufficient time for unpaid work, for example in the context of child care and care, is in the interest of society as a whole;]] [[calls on the government to identify the effects on unpaid work and to find sufficient room for unpaid work in the employment promotion cabinet plans,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33566-78]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u220	I have two other brief points to make. It is good news that there is no need for substantial new cuts in social security and care in order to allow the tax that is desperately needed to work for adequate employment. When I hear all the sounds like that, it will be a very interesting discussion about the new tax system. I think we should be able to get out. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for Social Affairs for confirming his attention to earners. I had already assumed that, but thanks to the nice interruptions by Mr Van Vliet that was once again...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u221	Van Dijck!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u222	Sorry, Mr Van Dijck! It is all being straightened out in the report. Thanks to the brilliant interruptions by Mr Van Dijck, this was discussed. I would like to thank the Minister for his positive comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u223	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the rulers for the clear answers. We can talk about reducing the payment of wages in the event of sickness before the summer, and perhaps we can also take decisions on this. That's gonna help the economy. I heard interesting election debates on the left. The VVD had the interesting remark that the deficit may simply rise to 1.9%. They're gonna have to reprint some leaflets before the election, but okay. The VVD said before the election that the mortgage interest deduction was like a house, but then adjusted it. The VVD wanted more punishment for criminals before the elections, but adapted it after the elections. Before the elections, the VVD said that we all got €1,000 back, but after the elections that was changed. So this is getting used to pretty well. We are talking about lower unemployment. Unemployment is now far too high. If it were at the German level, we would now have more than 200,000 unemployed. Unemployment is lower not only in Germany and Austria but also in Denmark, Romania, the Czech Republic, Luxembourg, Malta and the United Kingdom. To get below the European average, you have to take Italy, Spain and Greece, because there the unemployment rate is really far too high. You can't solve that in two seconds or in an election debate like this. That is why we want a serious investigation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in our neighbouring countries unemployment has fallen significantly in recent years or has risen much less than in the Netherlands;]] [[Calls on the Government, the WRR or the CPB to investigate the causes of the difference in unemployment rates between the Netherlands and Germany over the period 2010-2016, and to inform the Court of Justice within one year with recommendations on how to reduce unemployment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33566-79]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u224	So it's about bringing it back to the German level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u225	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the rulers for answering my questions. It is good to hear from the Minister for Social Affairs that this cabinet is not only aware of the sectoral plans but will also pay special attention to those areas in the region that are suffering from high unemployment. It is also good to hear that the families with a modal income are being spared extra. I would ask the Minister for Social Affairs what specific new measures he is referring to, also in the light of today's Nibud figures. It is also good to hear that this cabinet is not committed to additional cuts. To underline this further, I have the next motion, which is addressed to the Chamber and not so much to the Cabinet. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[says that in order to finance the reduction of the burden, it is not necessary to want to make additional savings on health and social security,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33566-80]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u226	Mr. Chairman. One statement by Mr Van Klaveren was that we all want to achieve the same thing, only in different ways. I wonder if he's right about that. I believe in achieving the same thing. We want more work, we want more people at work, we want to maintain the necessary collective provision and we want to maintain and, if possible, increase the prosperity built up by hard work. But do we disagree on the ways in which we want to achieve this? We want to enable business to create jobs, don't we? We want business to be able to deliver products and services in the world that is needed in the world, and that is what it is doing. We want business to invest in production resources, don't we? Surely we want room for consumption of households and for them to increase? And we want the budget deficit to be bearable, don't we? I don't think all this is going to happen on its own. You can't do this by creating differences or increasing differences between you. You'll get it done by working hard and by keeping your course. That's what the Cabinet is doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u227	Mr. Chairman. I have to make a small division of labour; it's so domestic sometimes. Purchasing power, the motion in part No. 75, the Minister of Social Affairs will do. In the motion in part No. 76 the government is requested to lift the flat tax in box 3 and replace it with a progressive tax. We have already written to you in our letter on Prince's Day that we are dissatisfied with the way box 3 is now assembled, which is indeed a form of flat tax: there is one rate. We're gonna differentiate that. This can be done by looking at base and levy. I do not know exactly what is meant by a progressive levy. But if it says here "requires the flat tax to be lifted and replaced by" it's a sprint to an exit. It could be "for example, to replace it with a progressive tax." There are all kinds of variants to make it fairer and more social. We'll look into it. If the motion remains as it is, I suspect it is, then I must dissuade her at this time. The motion can also be held. That would be wise, too. The cabinet's working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u228	A brief response, Mr Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u229	Is it the word "remove"? Then I just make it "to be replaced by a progressive tax." It's simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u230	It's simple! Did you come from Brabant or something?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u231	I thought the objection was in the lifting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u232	Sorry, I got distracted by "simple drunk." I liked that so much. No, the objection is not in the lifting. The objection is that you are already suggesting a certain solution. I don't know what you mean by a progressive tax and what it looks like. Is it about the base, is it about the rate and how? We are proposing a fairer levy instead of the flat-rate rate of return. That's the first part of the operative part. The flat tax disappears. That's our intention, too. We are looking at a fairer way of charging, in which we can distinguish by type of assets, by growth or by tariffs. Those are all possibilities that we are looking at now. My objection is that you are already sprinting to the solution, Mr Merkies. We're not there yet. The wording "for example, replacing it with a progressive charge" still gives us room to develop different variants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u233	It is true that I am going to say that for the sake of clarity, I am going to say that there are different rates. If I added the word "for example," wouldn't the Minister advise against the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u234	That's right. I'll leave it to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u235	It is up to you to change the motion before the votes, Mr Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u236	Then I'm probably gonna do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u237	In the motion-Van Klaveren to piece No. 77 the government is requested to standardise the VAT rate at 15%. We are looking at VAT in the context of the system review, but this motion also sprints to the exit. I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 78 is about labour, so I think the Minister for Social Affairs should give his opinion on it. On the motion in part No. 79 I have to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs for advice. It calls on the government to investigate something. The Minister of EZ has already responded to this in the first period. We are not just going to do some research into comparisons between countries. Then you can take all kinds of countries and all kinds of periods. We do not think that would make any sense, so we advise against that motion. The motion in part No. 80 concerns a request to the Chamber, so I have no judgment on that. I think I'm done with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u238	Then there are two motions, the motion in part No. Question No 75, by Mr Merkies and the motion for a resolution (Doc. 78 of the members Dijkgraaf and Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u239	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 75 is about purchasing power repair. I said in the debate that we will do so in August. It's really untimely, so the advice has been taken or dissuaded. Then we have the motion in part No. 78. I'd like to dissuade them, too. It anticipates the new tax system, the combination of work and care. We talk a lot about that and I shall come back to that in the Chamber. She's premature at the moment, so my advice has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u240	Then we have had all the motions that have brought us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u241	I thank the ministers for their answers. I would also like to thank Members, officials and people who have followed this debate, here or via the Internet. The motions tabled will be put to the vote next week.
