ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u1	I welcome the Secretary of State for Finance and I give the floor to Mr Klaver van GroenLinks as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is the task of the People's Assembly, as co-legislator and government policy supervisor, to closely monitor developments in the internationalisation of business and, if necessary, to take initiatives aimed at safeguarding the general interest. In doing so, the parliament should define the national and international frameworks, examine whether existing national legislation is inadequate and address possible deficits. These are not my own words; they are words from March 1977, drawn up by the PPR Group and the PvdA Group. It was the wonderful initiative paper Multinational companies and the Dutch Parliament, which is unprecedentedly topical to this day. However, we are not talking today about the 1977 own-initiative paper, although I would like to mention it, but to a large extent about the report of the Court of Auditors. Together with the SP Group, my group tabled a motion two years ago asking the Court of Auditors to map out our tax system. I'm glad we can talk about that today. Much has happened since 2013, but fortunately the issue of tax avoidance is on the political agenda. It's been a long fight. Let's be clear about that. My group has been drawing on this issue for decades. We are not out of step with countries such as Luxembourg, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. So we're not out of step with a country that still knows a banking secret. So we are not out of line with Luxembourg, a country that is known as a tax haven. We are also not out of step with a country known for its tax road shows. To my stupid surprise, however, this Secretary of State says he is pleased with this conclusion. As if walking in line is a virtue in itself! We would not be pleased if a report would conclude that we are in line with Saudi Arabia in terms of women's rights, would we? I hope that our Secretary of State, Luxembourg and Switzerland, does not regard this dossier as a measure. In any case, GroenLinks does not do so and wants to put an end to the unfair situation in which multinationals continue to dance. This leads to an unbalanced distribution of the tax burden, as the General Court concludes. Our domestic business and the hardworking Dutchman pay the price for this. Their tax burden has been increasing for years and the tax burden of multinationals is falling. Nevertheless, this Secretary of State is acting only slowly and is ambivalent in what approach he wants to take. Let him be concrete in that. If we ask the Secretary of State to take national measures, then he is in favour of a European approach. I can still support him for a large part, but we ask him to embrace a European approach, such as the common corporate tax base, then we read again that this cabinet considers taxation to be a national matter. I would like to be clear about this, because it is either one or the other. In January, the Secretary of State in Het Financieele Dagblad said that there should be a European basis for the taxation of profits by companies, as long as profits are taxed in the country where the value is created. Is this still his point of view? If so, how is he going to fight for this in Europe? The obligation on all European countries to establish a register of stakeholders is the wonderful outcome of my colleague in the European Parliament Judith Sargentini, who led the negotiations on this issue in Parliament. What is the Secretary of State's commitment? Does he intend to set up a full public register, as requested by us in a motion that has been adopted previously? Does the Secretary of State recognise that any security risks can be overcome by requiring persons who see the register to register? In specific individual cases where disclosure of information would lead to particular security risks for the person concerned, can an exception be made to disclosure? Can the Secretary of State indicate a target date to have the register operational? Finally. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the control of rulings and transfer pricing is inadequate. The answer to the questions shows that the Tax Administration annually issues 10,000 APAs and ATRs, but controls less than 500 of them, less than 5%. In Belgium, the tax has taken another look at the 200 largest companies and what appears to be the case? In 2014, they raised an additional 150 million in tax revenues. I want our tax authorities to do the same, starting with the largest 100 companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u3	I listened to Mr Klaver's speech. It's a good setup, but I do have a question for him. In the report of the General Court of Auditors, which is the direct cause for this debate, we can also read that the Dutch Tax Administration's control of the tax activities of multinationals in the Netherlands is very thorough, and I think that was the quote. How does Mr Klaver see that in the light of his last paragraph?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u4	I understand from the report of the Court of Auditors and also from the answers to our questions that the ex ante audit, i.e. the application of the APA or the ATR, is in fact in order and is fairly thorough. That is the conclusion of the Court of Auditors. I'm talking about once it's closed, you should also see if the situation has changed and if circumstances have changed. I now call for that to be looked at.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u5	We have the Rolling Stones, which have a mailbox in the Netherlands and then leave their thick wallet very filled without paying taxes. You also have companies that make investments and create jobs in the Netherlands. Where is the border for Mr Klaver? Where is it desirable and where should it be combated by all means? Can he fill that in a little more concretely?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u6	Sure. It's about whether you come here just to get around the taxes and have no economic activity here. I think the Rolling Stones are a good example of that. Apart from a single performance that I was allowed to attend last year on Pinkpop, they don't come very often in the Netherlands. In my view, this is a very clear example of tax avoidance. Even if there are economic activities in the Netherlands, I believe that companies should pay their fair share of taxes. If, despite economic activities, the tax they pay is actually too low, I also think that is a form of tax avoidance. In both cases, as far as I am concerned, this is about forms of tax avoidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. At the initiative of the SP and GroenLinks, the Court of Auditors has conducted extensive research into tax avoidance and the Dutch tax treatment of multinationals. I would like to thank the Court of Auditors for this thorough investigation. As far as we are concerned, there will be more research, because many questions remain unanswered to this day. The Secretary of State is pleased that, according to the report, the Netherlands is in line with other EU countries. But when it comes to countries, actually tax havens like the United Kingdom, Switzerland and Luxembourg, I do not know if you should be so happy about that. These countries are certainly not known for their good tax behaviour. Luxembourg, in particular, is very furious. All I have to do is refer to the LuxLeaks, which shows a picture of a tax administration that has a hand with multinationals. You don't want to be compared to that, do you? It is not for nothing that the European Commission is doing proper research, not only on tax structures in a country such as Luxembourg, but also on tax structures in a country such as the Netherlands. We've had a briefing on Starbucks behind closed doors this week. We can't say anything about that. I'm thinking, why all the secrecy? I don't think that's necessary. Companies can make agreements behind closed doors with the Tax Administration about the interpretation of the law. Apparently, that law itself gives sufficient certainty and there is a lot of space about how it can be interpreted. There lies, of course, the negotiating area for companies and their advisers. After all, you can always try new cases in consultation with the Tax Administration. In what way does the Tax Administration actually limit this? How much time has the Tax Administration actually lost to an average ruling and what are the costs involved? The Secretary of State says he's willing to share rulings with other countries. But is it only the rulings that relate to the preferred regimes or is it all rulings? To what extent are bilateral rulings and bilateral APAs used? Wouldn't it make sense to make more frequent bilateral agreements directly involving the tax authorities from both countries? After all, you have much more certainty that the same transfer pricing is applied on both sides. Another point on which there is still no openness is how much tax multinationals actually pay in each country. I'm talking about country-by-country reporting. The OECD guidelines on this subject, published in draft last month, merely require this information to be shared between tax administrations. So the audience doesn't get to know anything. Some progress has now been made in Europe with regard to banks and the extractive industries, such as mining. But why is this not being extended to all sectors? After all, companies have to publish everything in their annual reports. Then why doesn't that apply to the taxes they pay? It seems to me that the public is entitled to this, as knowledge of it contributes to a fair debate on international taxation. The Secretary of State has said that he would like to play a leading role with the Netherlands in the field of transparency. Does he want to make himself public in the international gremia for that? In response to my written questions from last November, the State Secretary mentioned an investigation into the extension of country-by-country reporting by the Commission, which would be reported by 2018. I don't quite understand that year 2018. We're not gonna put this in the fridge for three years, are we? In addition, research has already been carried out on behalf of the Commission in relation to the banks, which shows that public country-by-country reporting does not entail any disadvantages. Why wait another three years? Is the Secretary of State prepared to clarify the position of the Netherlands when it comes to public country-by-country reporting, not just for banks, but for all multinationals? I think that openness is very important. I will table a motion on this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u8	I ask an open question: is the SP in favour of further unilateral action by the Netherlands to limit its tax facilities for multinationals?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u9	Yes, because we are also ahead of what is called harmful tax practices. That is why we are part of an investigation by the Commission, especially when it comes to something like the innovation box. At first, that sounds very interesting, after all, everyone is for innovation, but that box is so wide-ranging, that you can actually include everything, such as research abroad. You might wonder if this isn't just a tax cut. In this way, we are taking tax bases away from other countries and we are simply harming other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr Van Vliet, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u11	If these unilateral measures, which Mr Merkies believes should be taken by the Netherlands, lead to a negative impact on the tax facilities in the Netherlands, which means that multinationals are migrating to London City, it will cost jobs anyway. What about Mr Merkies in these negative consequences for the Dutch economy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u12	I think it's exactly the other way around. I think that the Netherlands is now becoming a negative association internationally, because we are known as a tax haven. We are also receiving a lot of criticism from the United States. You don't want to be known as a tax haven, do you? Other countries will eventually also take action against us. Of course, I am in favour of multilateral agreements, but we should not be the worst boy in the classroom. We are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mr. Chairman. For the CDA, taxes must be fair. If they're too low, we don't have enough resources for road construction, defense, AIVD or education. When they're too high, they work hard for society and take away any initiative. Taxation must be fair and provide income. Tax avoidance doesn't have to be a problem. If you use the possibility to deduct mortgage interest from your income, that is a form of tax avoidance. However, it will only become problematic if the tax system is such that tax can be avoided if it is not the intention of the system, nor of all of us. This is also why the CDA calls for a flat tax, which to some extent prevents tax arbitrage. In the review of the tax system, the CDA argues for a simpler system in addition to lower taxation. A system with fewer avenues to avoid tax so that everyone can contribute, including the big companies. The CDA is against the profiteers who improperly use the tax system, also internationally. In order to get a grip on this, it is important that much more bank information is exchanged internationally and that banking secrecy is effectively removed. Tax administrations also need to exchange more things with each other. If a company says it pays taxes in country A and doesn't want to pay taxes in country B, but country B can't control this properly, then the system fails. The CDA wants more transparency and more data exchange. The CDA therefore asks the Secretary of State how the different rulings of the companies we have talked about are exchanged between the countries. Does the Secretary of State of a company know how another country handles it? We've had a confidential briefing. I would like to know whether the rulings on one company between a number of tax administrations have been exchanged in five countries. Do they know with five of them whether a game is being played or whether there is another impression being given in another country? The CDA wants power flights from the Netherlands to sunny places to become a thing of the past, so that the tax base in the Netherlands is increased. We are in favour of harmonising the basis of taxation, not tariffs in the European Union. It will have to be tackled at European level. The Netherlands itself deals with its taxes. Let us not forget that a favourable locational environment is not just a result of tax measures. A well-educated population with relatively low labour costs, a healthy population and a good physical infrastructure also provide an attractive country to invest in and establish a business. The Netherlands does have some very interesting tax measures, such as the innovation box. Their use may have been overshot with a significant reduction in tax revenue. The same applies, for example, to the deduction of green investments. There are examples of people who receive a huge deduction for their investment, while the investment itself did not come off the ground or was not effective. These are mistakes in the system that need to be changed. In the debate on the new tax system, we are happy to discuss this. I take this input to ask two more questions to the Secretary of State. In 2012 Kamerbreed passed a motion on the tax gap, which would be calculated. On 8 October 2014, this State Secretary said that this motion was not carried out and that we would be given a planning on how different matters can be calculated. We have still not been able to see that planning. This is now two and a half years ago. The tax gap gives a very good measuring bar for the difference between what should have been paid and what was paid. The calculation has been made by the European Commission since 2009, Greece has been charged and the Dutch government refuses to make it. We would like to know immediately, for next Tuesday, what the timetable looks like and how the tax gap will be calculated. Moreover, the avoidance of excise duties has increased to a large extent at the time of the government, a fall of 400 million compared to the estimates. I very much appreciate the response to the own-initiative paper on this, because this too is a way of avoiding the tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u14	I have a question about the European common corporate tax base. For the record, the Labour Party is also in favour of this. However, in the previous cabinet period a yellow card was issued from the Netherlands at this point. That also has a reason, because that common tax base would cost the Netherlands a lot of money. That is so far, but it also seems that the profit-sharing key would be very much in favour of large countries and that small countries could be the loser. Is Mr Omtzig now saying that the CDA is fully associated with such a European tax base for profits? Or are there conditions attached to this for the CDA, and does it think that we should still have some influence on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u15	I did not expect it in this respect, but I can fully endorse the first part of Mr Groot's speech. It is not unconditional, in the sense that we think that everything proposed by Europe in the field of taxation is a good idea. We shall certainly weigh that very well here. Indeed, that was the reason why a number of people were going to see this as an own resources decision. The CDA doesn't agree with that. We do not see anything in a common Vpb, which is collected by Europe or which is regarded as 'own resources'. However, we do see some idea of harmonising the foundations in such a way that the possibilities of arbitration are greatly reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mr Van Vliet, we have not agreed on a maximum number of interruptions, but it is not unlimited. You may ask a question, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u17	I'm always very to the point and very short, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u18	I noticed that. That is why you will have the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u19	As a fiscalist, this is, of course, a supertheme for me. I have a quick question. I've always fought for that tax gap. That is what Mr Omtzigt knows, and I wholeheartedly support it. Should that tax gap really become known, it will undoubtedly be evident that there are elements in it that are strictly national, because people in the Netherlands do avoid tax or evade tax. Evasiveness is undoubtedly also in that tax gap. Isn't it pollution compared to the discussion we're having today, if you'd like to put a-on-one that tax gap on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u20	Yeah, that doesn't fit one-on-one on the Vpb. However, I take this approach because the tax gap gives a measure of tax avoidance and evasion together. We have had a very substantive discussion about how much evasion you need to add. My D66 colleague is not here, but we cannot discuss excise duty on soft drugs. If you legalize that, you're gonna tax it. It's okay. That's not so exciting at all; that's what they should do. However, I take this opportunity to ask the Secretary of State to implement his commitment six months ago, following a motion unanimously adopted by the House of Representatives two and a half years ago. We charge Greece for a tax gap, while we do not want to calculate it ourselves. England and USA report it in their pieces every year. So it's just a normal case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u21	I support this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u22	Mr Koolmees just walked into the room, but he's just waving. I call Mr Groot of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u23	Mr. Chairman. Tax avoidance is a broad topic. Four minutes of speaking time will force a sharp choice. I would like to confine myself today to two topics. Firstly, I would like to comment on the Court's report on the ruling practice and on the European Commission's investigation into the Starbucks issue. Then I would like to say something about the position of the Netherlands as a hub for international financial flows and what we can do to discourage these undesirable financial flows. I can be brief on the Court of Auditors' report. Fortunately, the Court of Auditors has not found that the APA/ATR team in Rotterdam is doing a good job, which would be contrary to the laws and regulations. That was the case in Luxembourg and Ireland. So we are well off against that, but of course we are far from there. Even if everything happens within the laws and rules, there may still be unwanted tax structures. Moreover, there is one suspicious case, Starbucks, which is currently under investigation by the European Commission. In such cases, more openness is very important, because then the Chamber will have a better view of where it may or may not go wrong and what it can do about it. The Labour Party therefore thanks the Secretary of State for the enlightening technical briefing on ruling at Starbucks. This can be repeated by the Labour Party. We really do not need to see all the agreements made by the Tax Administration. I do not want to do that to myself and my colleagues, but if there are concrete suspicions of breaking laws, or if there is an official investigation, it is good that the Chamber is given confidential access to the agreements made. Can the Secretary of State agree that we are moving forward in this way? Next, a comment on the position of the Netherlands as a hub of international financial flows. There is nothing wrong with this when it comes to real investment or real group financing. However, empty mailbox companies that only use the Netherlands as an intermediary for passing profits or assets to places where the tax is almost zero can be spared as a toothache. These empty letterbox companies are harmful to other countries' tax revenues and, above all, to the reputation of the Netherlands. We have already taken some measures on this point. Companies without substance no longer receive rulings from the Netherlands. Foreign tax authorities are also actively informed if the Netherlands suspects that their tax claims are being undermined. In the meantime, the international debate has not stopped. The time of aggressive tax planning is over, because there is no explaining such a thing anymore. I would therefore ask the Cabinet to make an effort to introduce a withholding tax on interest and royalty flows going to tax havens. If there are other measures that can achieve the same thing, that is fine, but a withholding tax seems to me to be feasible. This should preferably be done at European or OECD level. If this is not possible, the Netherlands should consider whether it can take unilateral measures. In this way it will no longer pay for letterbox companies to settle here. What does the Secretary of State think of this proposal and is he prepared to take up this glove?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u24	Were you done with your speech? In that case, I shall give the floor to Mr Merkies, who would like to put a question to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u25	Will Mr Groot also table a motion on his proposal to levy taxes on mailbox companies that transfer funds to tax havens? How does he define the term "tax havens"? How many tax havens do he think there are?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u26	That was a lot of questions in one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u27	It is good practice to wait for the answer of the Secretary of State in the first term. If that is a negative answer, then we must also say B, if we have said A. In that case, we shall therefore table a motion. The definition of tax havens does indeed listen closely. In the OECD context, very clear definitions have already been given. I would like to mention the main two criteria. Firstly, is there a tax on profits in the country where the tax is almost zero? We are talking about countries such as Bermuda, the Cayman Islands and the Isle of Man. The tax on profits in the country in question must therefore be almost zero. Secondly, there must be a form of banking secrecy which prevents the exchange of information. We see that, precisely because of this kind of jurisdiction, multinationals often move their interest and royalty flows so that they escape tax obligations. We want to discourage such flows.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mr Merkies, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u29	It is not for nothing that Mr Groot does not answer my very crucial third question, namely how many tax havens he thinks there are. If he joins the OECD, I conclude that he believes there are no tax havens. The question then is what his motion means. Earlier, I proposed in a motion with Mr Klaver that at least the definition should be strengthened, but the PvdA voted against it. I therefore wonder whether the PvdA wishes to define the concept of 'tax havens' sharply, so that the motion which Mr Groot may have tabled can also be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u30	The precise description of "tax havens" is very accurate. The discussion at the OECD has indeed become polluted. This had to do with the fact that tax havens are somehow taking steps to comply with the information requirement. I'll try to define it a little more clearly. For me, it is very important whether it is a question of tax jurisdictions on the basis of which no or very little profit tax is levied. Because in the end, that's why you're getting rid of tax liability: don't have to pay taxes. That seems to me to be a decisive point in defining what is a tax haven and what is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u31	I very much welcome Mr Groot's proposal. It is important that there should be a withholding tax on royalties, but I do have some problems with the implementation of his plan. Mr Groot says that there must be withholding tax for the export of royalties to tax havens. This proposal cannot be without a list of countries. What countries does Mr Groot have in mind? At the moment, there is no such definition of tax havens. There are zero on the OECD list. What is he asking the Secretary of State to do about the demarcation of tax havens? Or what other way can he see his proposal implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u32	Let me repeat what I said to Mr Merkies: it is crucial to me that in those jurisdictions the tax on profits is virtually zero. That's the line I'd like to draw. They're places where you don't have to pay taxes or hardly have to pay taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u33	Mr Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u34	That's interesting. That's one already. I am curious as to what is 'not or hardly', because I think we are going to have a discussion on this too. I welcome this step, but shouldn't we get a withholding tax on royalties at all? Wouldn't that be a much simpler step? Then you're not just trying to pin point on the tax havens, because I think it's going to be a very difficult thing to come up with a precise definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u35	Now Mr Klaver is broadening his proposal much further. I should think about that. My main aim is to discourage undesirable financial flows to jurisdictions where no or no tax on profits is paid. I think it is another very different step to introduce a broad system of withholding taxes. I wouldn't argue for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u36	I agree with Mr Groot on that last point, but the proposal is, of course, based on the definition. What's a tax haven? So what exactly is it about? Is this proposal an empty shell or does it really mean anything? I have a specific question. We all know about Ireland that it has a low corporate tax rate. Does that country fall into Mr Groot's category?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u37	Ireland still has a reasonable corporate tax rate. I am really talking about jurisdictions like the Cayman Islands and Bermuda, where there is no profit tax at all or only 1%. These are also the places where royalty flows often drop from companies like Apple and Starbucks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u38	That is of course part of the BEPS...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u39	And Ireland is more similar. If there are convincing measures at OECD level and at EU level to discourage this type of financial flow, that is also fine. But if that is not possible, the Netherlands should consider taking measures itself, for example in the form of a withholding tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u40	So far, the attitude of the Labour Party has been: international approach. I think that this is a justified attitude, because it is precisely jurisdictions that Mr Groot is talking about, such as Bermuda, that can only be addressed in a broad sense, so in the OECD context. Hence the support of the Labour Party for the BEPS discussion. Now Mr Groot is going another way. We also see that it is difficult to name exactly what those jurisdictions are and what we are talking about. That's a little vague. Does this one-sided step not lead to us not being able to take a joint step forward in the OECD context, to really tackle it, but to make this another kind of symbolic proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u41	Of course, an international approach is the royal road. It is also the most effective and has our strong preference. However, we also see that the Netherlands is really different from many other countries in that the Netherlands is an important link for undesirable financial flows as well. This harms the reputation of the Netherlands. We should set up our tax system in such a way that we are attractive to international companies that make real investments. Empty letterbox companies only undermine the reputation of the Netherlands. We have already taken unilateral measures here to discourage those mailbox companies. I just mentioned them. Then you're talking about tightening up substance requirements and actively exchanging information. You could take another step in that if it does not succeed internationally, but only then.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u42	I'm listening and I'm a little surprised. I was when I read the newspaper this morning about things when possibly taking unilateral measures with such a withholding tax. Then as a country, you give yourself a stick that you seem to have your business out of order. Can Mr Groot imagine that this will deter companies who want to start small and establish themselves here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u43	We do not want to put anything in the way of small businesses who want to settle here with real investment. In fact, we want to encourage them to come here. As far as the stickler is concerned, if we take measures that clearly show that we are not waiting for undesirable financial flows aimed at tax avoidance, companies that really want to invest will not suffer. These measures are merely a sign that we are keeping our tax system in order and in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u44	I hear small businesses are welcome. That sounds nice. However, often one will start small and grow slowly but surely. I have already noticed that all these discussions scare companies and put a brake on investment. What is Mr Groot's reaction to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u45	When it comes to small trust offices that use the Netherlands only as an intermediary to channel assets, it is very good if they startle and then stay away. But again, if companies want to invest here, they can use all of the Dutch facilities, ranging from participation exemption to the innovation box and our depreciation regime. You name it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u46	Mr. Chairman. In my group's view, the debate on tax avoidance is not primarily about whether the Tax Administration is applying properly the rules we have agreed with each other or how much it gives us in relation to what it costs us. This is a debate on justice and on the political desirability of agreements we have made. Those are agreements that give multinationals a lot of opportunities to go so to say, creative fiscal routes. These roads also ensure that SMEs receive a higher tax burden and developing countries get less than they deserve. Taxing is essentially making choices. Who's gonna make you pay what part? If we let one pay less, it automatically means that the other will probably pay more. One question that remains in our mind is: why is the Tax Administration so helpful in applying the tax rulings? How many people are working on this now? Mr Merkies asked that too, I believe. What are the costs of delivering those rulings every time? Of course, if you don't do it in advance, it will have to be established afterwards how much tax is to be levied, but isn't there almost a kind of trial-and-error taking place to see what the limits of our tax legislation are? The fact that many tax offices make a lot of money from that is a first point. But the next point is that our tax authorities have to make a lot of money to respond to it. That's public money. Can the Secretary of State give us more insight into this? Does he think the ratio of the part we spend on this is correct? The Court's report shows that due to the absence of, for example, withholding tax on interest and royalties, the structure of the 94 tax treaties, the letterbox companies and the approximately 600 rulings issued annually, the Netherlands is European and international as a tax attractive country. Let me say it very euphemistically. The Court of Auditors notes that we are even included in the list of the United Kingdom, Switzerland and Luxembourg. My group is not very proud of that. Is the Secretary of State even proud of this? Or didn't he have to be in that row too? What can we do about this? That's the big question. We must also look at ourselves. What treaties do we conclude? What's in it? A magic word, as far as we are concerned, is transparency. I am referring to country-by-country reporting as well. My group has long advocated that further steps be taken here, including in other committees. Some steps are now being taken at OECD level and at European level, but is the Secretary of State prepared to take a leading role in this? Does he also want to indicate how quickly he can possibly do that? I would also like to comment on the developing countries. A number of countries with which we have concluded treaties are particularly poor countries. They are now getting a convention maintenance course to see how they can better collect their taxes. Isn't it more necessary than a treaty maintenance course? Can we not also provide technical assistance to ensure that the poor countries with which we have concluded treaties can collect a fair share of what is due to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u47	Mr. Chairman. I've been feeling uncomfortable these last few days. When I read the newspaper every now and then and see what left-wing parties say, I read that we would live in a tax haven. That's bullshit. The Netherlands has an average corporate tax rate, a large network of tax treaties, because it allows you to fight wrong things and prevent double taxation, and an efficient tax administration. This was also reflected in the Court's report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u48	Mr Klaver is already ready for a question, while Mrs Neppérus has just begun.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u49	I know, but Mrs Neppérus also responded this morning before the debate to one of the proposals I made with some sort of 'brrr, I shouldn't really think about it'. I was sorry to hear that, because I really tried to approach Mrs Neppérus. I know she doesn't want us to call the Netherlands a tax haven. I know she doesn't want us to come up with all kinds of tightening-up of legislation. I also know that she would like us to monitor existing legislation and agreements more closely. That's what my proposal is about. Just make sure that existing agreements are better monitored. The southern neighbors do the same, and that's paid them 150 million dollars for the treasury. Isn't that supposed to sound like music to Mrs. Neppérus?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u50	Mrs Neppérus, what is your answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u51	I can't believe I'm gonna come up with that in the second part of my story about control. That's what I'm about to come up with. I am now talking in general about the fact that this country is constantly regarded as a tax haven, also by friends of Mr....
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u52	Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u53	Clover. That happens regularly, also by his own party. I come to the second part of my speech on the way in which the Tax Administration is to monitor. Then Mr Klaver and I will certainly find each other for a long time. I'll get to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u54	Guilty as charged. I see some friends in the public gallery who are always talking about tax havens. I myself often talk about the Netherlands as a tax haven. I am glad that Mrs Neppérus sees that I have really tried to find her on this point. Together, we can work hard with that control to ensure that the Netherlands collects its fair share of taxes, not only from all hardworking Dutch people, but also from large companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u55	Please continue, Mrs. Neppérus.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u56	I would like to respond to Mr Klaver. I would almost grab a handkerchief, but I would like to highlight the fact that we do a stick on the Netherlands. My main concern is that we make the Netherlands completely unattractive, even for companies that really want to do things here. You can see the scare coming already. That is my great concern, because companies bring jobs, and that is what I am concerned about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u57	The General Court notes that the Netherlands is not out of line with the United Kingdom, Switzerland and Luxembourg. These are countries that are doing more or less well. The Netherlands does run out of pace with, for example, Germany or France. We will not argue about France, that is a separate case, but is employment in Germany so bad?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u58	In Germany the economy sometimes goes well and sometimes less well, I understand from the pieces. However, it is a large country and it will naturally attract many more companies and activities than a small country like the Netherlands. Such a small country will have to show that it has good education, that it is attractive and that there is good infrastructure. These matters are essential, and the Netherlands will have to show much more that it has at its disposal than a very large country which will naturally attract more businesses and jobs. It's about the last VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u59	The Netherlands has exceptionally good education, an exceptionally good infrastructure and it is a very stable country. These are all matters that are very important for the locational environment. Can Mrs Neppérus make it clear how many companies will leave if we change, for example, transparency or, for example, if we move towards Mr Groot's idea of withholding royalties to tax havens? How many companies, how many jobs will we care about? Can Mrs. Neppérus make this clear? She's threatening to do this, but I didn't get it sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u60	I hope that Mrs Schouten will also be visiting Chambers of Commerce and Companies. We have many foreign companies in the Netherlands that offer real jobs. That's essential. Those companies need to be held. You can already see that the scare is being spread. That worries me and will continue to do so as long as we here in the Netherlands are more or less expressing that our country is a tax haven. That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u61	Mrs Neppérus says that a number of left-wing parties believe that the Netherlands is almost a tax haven. She thinks that's bullshit. I agree with her, but I don't use the words "sort of." The Netherlands is a tax haven. Mrs Neppérus apparently has a different definition of "tax haven." Can it refer to countries which, according to that definition, are a tax haven? We have already discussed the countries with which the Netherlands is in line: Switzerland and Luxembourg. Those countries are at the top of the list of the Financial Secrecy Index. So that sounds like tax havens pur sang to me. In Mrs Neppérus' opinion, are these tax havens? If not, can she call a few other tax havens?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u62	I note that the SP believes that the Netherlands is a tax haven. It is good that this is repeated, as the voter also knows that the SP prefers not to have work and activity in this country. That's clear. It is now also happening in the Acts, but I find it shocking to hear this from Mr Merkies. Anyway, he's about his words and I'm about mine. The Netherlands is not a tax haven, but we can look at what is going on on the islands in the Caribbean. You can look at that and you can look at it critically.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u63	I'm just gonna get over the bullshit story about employment. My question was whether Mrs Neppérus believes that Switzerland and Luxembourg are tax havens. She is now referring to the Caribbean. I would ask her first to answer the question whether Switzerland and Luxembourg are tax havens. Can she just mention what countries, because I have the impression that in her opinion no country is a tax haven?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u64	I note that Mr Merkies considers the Netherlands to be a tax haven. He does not respond to this and we know that employment does not count for him. There are islands in the Caribbean that I regard as a tax haven. We have been working with Luxembourg for a long time, and I do not think that is a tax haven, nor does Switzerland. However, there is a need for much more cooperation between tax administrations. I will come to that in a moment, because that is where Mr Klaver and I can find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u65	A brief response to Mrs Neppérus' entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u66	This is indeed entrapment. I have said before that the Netherlands is a tax haven and that has nothing to do with the employment story. This has to do with the huge amount of money flowing through the Dutch mailbox companies. I think Mrs Neppérus is one of the few who still believe that the Netherlands is not a tax haven. This is also evident from the fact that it does not call Switzerland and Luxembourg tax havens either. It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u67	Mr Merkies thinks the Netherlands is just a tax haven. My point is that such a qualification deters companies that really want to do things in the Netherlands and who want to invest. It's gonna cost jobs. I will repeat that, although perhaps not everyone likes to hear it. That's all I care about. We have endured with other countries. Luxembourg is in the European Union. You should always look at how to tackle tax fraud and the like better together, including with those countries. So I am concerned about the question that I would like to put to the Secretary of State, what we can do to get more innovative companies here, because I am going to be concerned about everything I have heard here over the past few weeks and months. What can the Secretary of State do? Because I want to see more jobs. Then the point of tax rulings. I sometimes get the impression that this is something special.Our Tax Administration is efficient with it, but it's just something any Dutchman can request. Each Dutchman in this country is entitled to receive a confirmation from the State Secretary of the Netherlands and I am happy to submit an issue to the Tax Office in advance. Citizens can do that, and businesses can do that. However, when you make agreements, where I think it is perfectly normal for this to happen, you must always consider whether what has been agreed and what is done is also the reality. That's part of my job. You have to check that and deal with it where necessary. Does this also happen to that extent and will it lead to consequences? It's always part of the game. This also includes working with other countries and other tax administrations. I have said before that I would like to see much more exchange of information in this area, also automatically, because there is real profit to be made. You can make a deal. That is very good, but when agreements are made, people have to abide by them. Finally, I read that GroenLinks should have all the data on the street. I'll say no to that. Go exchange as tax authorities and help each other as tax authorities, but I don't want Dutch people to have everything on the street. If you start with one, the data of 13 million Dutch people will be on the street.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u68	I would like to come back to the point that every Dutchman can agree a ruling. That's right. In principle, everyone can ask in advance how about his tax... I think the Secretary of State will answer that question. The fact is that multinationals are dealing with very complex tax structures. These constructions are designed by very expensive tax offices. The tax authorities themselves must therefore check whether it is correct and must negotiate with all the countries in which the multinational operates. Isn't Mrs Neppérus curious how much our taxpayers cost in providing services by the Tax Administration? The VVD is the party that wants to handle our tax dollars very efficiently, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u69	I certainly always want to be careful with tax dollars, but it is good that companies, including large companies and multinationals, can agree on the way in which certain items are identified. I just think that's real. That is precisely what can create jobs. I think that's important. For me this is part of the fact that you are also looking at what is actually happening, because that is where the accent lies for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u70	I didn't ask that question. I didn't ask if Mrs. Neppérus is against the rulings. The limits of our tax laws and regulations are very much scanned by tax offices hired by large multinationals. This is a great deal of work for our Tax Administration, also because it has to negotiate with many countries. Those are intensive processes. Mrs. Neppérus knows that much better than I do. Does she not think that we should also be able to see whether, for example, we can avoid this kind of complex discussion by means of a withholding tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u71	Discussions will always be there. These exist in all countries subject to rulings, regardless of whether or not they have a withholding tax. Those discussions will always be there, but I'd like to talk about the human power that's on such a team. You can talk about that, and we can discuss it, even in further debates. On the other hand, this is important for employment and the like, but let us continue this discussion for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u72	I hear Mrs Neppérus saying that as a Chamber we do not need to see all the tax arrangements, but we have received a technical briefing this week. I have proposed to do that again, if there are controversial cases, to introduce it as a standard and to get another technical briefing, so that there will be a little more openness about tax rulings. Does Mrs Neppérus support this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u73	I would first like to know where the border is, otherwise we will call everything 'contested'. As a Chamber, in an exceptional case, I am really talking about an exceptional case, which we want to know a little more. It surprised me, by the way, that I read in the newspapers in the morning, so in public, that this had happened, but I would not mind if we, as a Chamber, could say in an exceptional case that we want to know more. That's different from "on the street," but in that one case this can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u74	That's profit, which we're just taking. My first interruption to Mrs Neppérus was about my proposal to review the agreements made with these companies. The aim is not to change the rules through legislation, because this is really an executive job for the Tax Administration. The aim is to check whether the agreements made are still up-to-date and are still valid. The Belgians do the same and thus collect a lot of extra tax revenue. What does Mrs Neppérus think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u75	I have said before and I repeat that I am okay with looking at what is actually happening. Furthermore, every ruling is always reviewed every few years. I think it would be wise to look at what is happening in the interim. That doesn't alter the fact that I consider tax agreements to be very important, but you have to look at what really happens. That can happen to us, and it has to be done there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u76	Excellent. Then I hope to find Mrs Neppérus, as I indicated at the beginning, in this debate and I hope that we can ask the Secretary of State for all those companies I defined that as 'the largest 100 companies', but we can also take another definition and review the agreements we have made to see whether the agreements are still up-to-date and whether extra money can be raised for the Dutch State, of course within the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u77	I always assume that people keep agreements, but you have to see if they actually do. So I do not start with a chronic distrust, because I do have confidence in companies. I would like to add that, because I consider activity and employment to be very important in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u78	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna make it quick. In the second term, I will table two motions. Tax evasion is a criminal offence and is therefore being brutally tackled in the Netherlands. Tax avoidance is not a criminal offence, but often unwanted. If couples shift the mortgage interest deduction to the most earning ones, we don't find that a problem. Businesses providing employment are also seeking the most favourable tax route; I understand that. In this context, I remain in favour of a favourable locational environment in our country, including taxation. Today, however, it is about drastically reducing the effective tax burden by some multinationals. If the average tax on profits is 25% in the countries in which such a multinational operates, and if the actual tax burden is less than 10%, then the problem lies; I understand that too. With its treaty network, participation exemption and ruling practice, the Netherlands often plays a key role in international tax relations, but this does not mean that the Netherlands is a tax haven. We do not have a zero rate in the profit tax for activities here and we do not know banking secrecy. We have a well-functioning Tax Service. Fares are not negotiable here; I am sure of 1,000%. Recently, the General Court concluded that the Netherlands has its affairs in order and acts fiscally within the framework of law, policy, case law and treaties. However, in so far as the tax burden of a multinational company is unreasonably low in relation to the group's total turnover and profits only through the intervention of the Netherlands, that gives reason to think. Everyone has to pay their fair share. That is what citizens do. Fortunately, the Netherlands agrees with the international approach to undesirable forms of tax avoidance through the OECD's BEPS project. That is enough to say that the Netherlands is not taking unilateral steps that investors are pursuing towards London and remains transparent about our national approach. And no, we're not tax haven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u79	We are not a tax haven, says Mr Van Vliet. I agree with that when we talk about citizens. But Mr Van Vliet himself also states that the Netherlands is being used by multinationals to effectively reduce their tax burden. A transit body is being set up, such a letterbox company, not to create economic value here, but to ensure that they have to pay less tax in the Netherlands or elsewhere in the world. That's tax avoidance, isn't it, Mr. Van Vliet? If the Netherlands facilitates this on a large scale, then is the Netherlands in that sense and only in that sense also a tax haven?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u80	The basis of the story is that the Netherlands has concluded a lot of bilateral tax treaties. If you add them all together, then I think there are more than 90 of them, you can end up in a situation where you get a kind of crossroads where someone can take the best turn. That is a factual situation which appears to exist. The fact that the Netherlands would encourage or direct this and therefore like to place itself as a tax haven is a vision I am fighting. It could be an undesirable consequence that such intersections occur. Then I'm also willing to see if we should put a barrier somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u81	That's important: put a barrier somewhere. It didn't happen on its own with all these treaties. It has been an active policy of the Netherlands to conclude as many bilateral treaties as possible, creating a hugely complex crossroads. Politics has created a reality in which companies can choose the best exit. I am glad that Mr Van Vliet also points out that we should take a critical look at this and that we should perhaps conclude some of those turns. It could undermine citizens' tax morals, because it is absolutely unfair to SMEs and citizens who simply pay a lot of taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u82	There is a reasonable argument in this, but I dare to put that against what Mrs Neppérus said. If you set barriers, this should not lead to real investors taking the turn to neighbouring countries and taking employment there. We all have to draw that line. We must ensure that there is not too much negative burden over that whole package of taxes we know in the Netherlands. That is what I am fighting for: that cargo should not become too negative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u83	I share the concern expressed by Mr Van Vliet: are we not getting on with it? What is Mr Van Vliet's view of cooperation in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u84	I have said before that I am in favour of the OECD Base Erosion & Profit Shifting project in international relations. I think that's a really good approach to seeing if everyone pays their fair share. The Netherlands must continue to do so. I am absolutely not in favour of the road that should be taken through the European Union, nor of that common basis. I think that gives you too much sovereignty. International transparency is particularly important. You have to exchange data all the time, as Mr Omtzigt said. Those are good points that you have to add together. Eventually you come to an optimal end result, in which you don't shoot with hail at constructions that not everyone can fathom to all the finesses. You should not shoot with hail and start talking about withholding taxes at the moment when there is a risk of damaging employment in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u85	I still have a question about the barrier, as Mr Van Vliet said. He likes the OECD approach, but that barrier really applies to the Netherlands. What would he want to put down in the Netherlands for a barrier?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u86	Our treaties are at the root of these international intersections. It is not so much about our own tax facilities as it is about the participation exemption and a well-functioning ruling practice, but about our tax treaties. One could think of re-negotiation, so that abuse of the treaties is fought more effectively and more effectively in conjunction with each other. Perhaps with the help of the OECD, these treaties should lead to an even tighter international module against abuse by third parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u87	That is something that needs to be looked at more closely, because I am trying to find out exactly how that works. Does Mr Van Vliet think that something should also be done with the ruling practice in the Netherlands? Or is it just and alone in the treaties?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u88	I can be clear about that. What I just meant is about the so-called limitation on benefits. You need to be able to exclude certain benefits of a treaty when you see that parties "abuse it" between quotes. The Dutch ruling practice is very far from that. I think it is very transparent and well-founded. They're absolutely well-functioning people. There is no negotiation or deal in any way. So I am really in favour of maintaining the current rule practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u89	Thank you very much, Mr Van Vliet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u90	Thank you. Thank you also to the colleagues for their interest in my story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u91	I think they're always interested in your story!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u92	Mr. Chairman. We have had a nice report from the General Court, with an in-depth study of tax avoidance in relation to the tax rules and the treaty network, but also examples of tax constructions that are common. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and the General Court for their comprehensive answers. Following the appeal of a number of parties in the Chamber last Tuesday, we had a very interesting presentation from the Tax Administration about the ruling practice and the case Starbucks. As far as I am concerned, that was very informative and could be repeated. Both from the report of the General Court of Auditors and from the technical briefing, the message is that the Dutch Tax Administration is doing a good job and complying with the law, and that the Netherlands is doing a lot of international work. That is good news, but it does not alter the fact that international companies exploit the absence of integration between tax systems. That's not illegal, but it's undesirable. That is also what the Court of Auditors' report shows, and that is what we always see in practice. Tax avoidance is not caused by national tax systems of one country, but cannot be solved by one country alone. It is a global or at least European problem and can only be resolved internationally; that has always been the position of D66 in this debate. Countries need to work together to better protect their base. D66 continues to encourage the cabinet to play a leading role in initiatives such as the G20, the OECD and the European Union to combat tax avoidance and evasion. I call the BEPS project (Base Erosion and Profit Shifting), but also the CCCTB (Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base), another terrible abbreviation for a harmonised basis for companies in Europe. I also mention the UN, which is committed to the equal participation of developing countries. For my group, international tax transparency and the exchange of information are among the most important things that need to be improved. We therefore welcome the directive announced by the European Commission in its 2015 work programme, which is likely to require automatic exchange of information between tax authorities on cross-border rulings. My group looks forward to the cabinet response to this proposal and supports the agreements made by the Netherlands with Germany on the exchange of information by rulings, in anticipation of the Commission's proposal. In addition, common reporting standards and country-by-country reporting are also essential elements in promoting fiscal transparency. The blueprint developed with the BEPS project is a good result. I have a few specific questions for the Secretary of State. Can he explain to whom international companies will report this information? Does this indeed only happen to the tax authority of the country where the head office is located, or wider? The abuse of the Treaties must be actively combated. The Netherlands has launched a project, with 23 developing countries with which the Netherlands has a treaty or is negotiating, to offer anti-abuse provisions. What's the status? What are the cabinet's ambitions in this area? I come to my last question. The General Court wrote in the report that the Chamber does not have an integrated picture of the Dutch tax location climate. In response to the report, the Secretary of State said that he would send an annual report to the Chamber with these developments over the next five years. When will we see the first result?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u93	Good speech by Mr Koolmees, but my question is actually about Mr Groot's speech on the withholding tax on royalties by tax havens. In this way, the PvdA actually anticipates action point 6 of the OECD BEPS project. How's D66 in here? Does Mr Koolmees agree with me that the water will only be clouded and people will be driven away if the Netherlands takes unilateral steps forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u94	The short answer is yes. The long answer is that D66 has always said that this can only be resolved internationally. Mr Groot is indeed referring to Action Line 6 of the OECD project BEPS, and it seems to me very sensible to do so with all countries at the same time. If the Netherlands moves separately, it is, as it were, a premium to stay in place. We don't want that. We really want something to be done about it, and that is why there is strong support from D66 for the BEPS project at OECD level. Then we can really make a fist international. If you don't, the countries will be played apart again and they'll cherrypick, which means they'll be looking for the best position. Strategically, that seems unwise to me. If you want to achieve the objective proposed by Mr Groot, you will have to do so internationally. I agree with that objective, but I find the approach unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u95	This has put an end to the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u96	Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, I would like to agree on the number of interruptions, namely two. An interruption always consists of a question and a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u97	Mr. Chairman. I have seen divergent but certainly convergent movements between the various groups and spokesmen. I have heard words of appreciation, but also very critical and even concerned about the system and the Dutch international tax practice. The B word has fallen. I've even heard that someone thinks we're the worst boy in the class. I need to respond to that. Of course, I do not know whether I can convince everyone, but I would like to defend my position that the essence of Dutch cross-border tax practice is not only logical, but also fair and solid. Moreover, I do not wish to conceal the fact that there are also side effects and that differences between systems do lead to behaviour that we do not want to see. The essence, however, is that the Netherlands is a small country with a large economy. A small country with a large economy has many economic relations that are very soon cross-border. After all, for a small country, almost the whole world is made up of abroad. A country which has a lot of cross-border economic relations, such as parent or subsidiary companies abroad, must abide by three rules. They are all logical and fair, but they are also all harsh conditions of existence for our country. These three rules are not abnormal and are also endorsed internationally. Rule 1 is that a country with many cross-border economic relations is trying to treat cross-border and non-cross-border companies equally. In other words, that means a level playing field between the different companies. If everything you do is international, you want to treat it like it's domestic. Let me give you two examples. We want to treat a Dutch subsidiary of a foreign group on the Dutch market in the same way as the Dutch competitor in the Netherlands, because we are such an international country. This automatically means that you do not have a withholding tax on interest and royalties, because that Dutch competitor does not have to pay it either. That puts them in an equal position. The second example is right on the other side of the border. We want to treat a foreign subsidiary of a Dutch group equally with the foreign competitor abroad. There too, we want parity. This automatically means an exemption from participation, because that foreign competitor does not have to pay twice a tax. Is that principle fair and logical? Yeah, it's very honest and logical. It is also precisely the reason why we in the EU are preferably looking at ourselves as one country in the EU, as the Netherlands, which also prefers to do worldwide, have both an interest and royalty directive and a parent-subsidiary directive, which is precisely these two things and embraces this sacred principle, which the Netherlands as an international country has been doing since the seventeenth century. Rule 2 is, in this context, I am talking to the Commission about the need for everyone, including the Netherlands, to tax profits where value is created. That makes sense. It also means that no profit should be taxed where no value is created. If you're going to tax profits where no value is created, so where no profit is actually made, you're just going to increase transaction costs. Our country stands or falls with low transaction costs, because we are so international. Let me rephrase. A small internationally oriented country should not try to tax profits for value created elsewhere. That actually means that the Netherlands would be eating from the sign of the neighbour. It's hard for our neighbors to live with. In fact, then, we have our hands on the profits of another country, and we should not do so. That too is a reason not to impose a withholding tax on interest and royalties in the Netherlands, but to limit our grayness to our own profits, our own added value. Is that fair and logical? Yeah, I think it's fair and logical that we don't tax ourselves that doesn't belong to us. We are not alone in this, because the official OECD model does not include any withholding tax on royalties. The OECD has argued this along the same line and also warns against a withholding tax on interest. This is not something the Netherlands has a very exceptional idea about, but something in which the Netherlands has a longer tradition, because the Netherlands must do so in a hurry. We are so small that we have to treat cross-border transactions as if they were domestic transactions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u98	I have a question about profits and royalties. The Secretary of State says that you must tax profits where value is created; that is the starting point. Could it also be that when profits are created by value creation, which goes back out of the country under the heading of royalties? In formal terms, royalties are paid, but you might also wonder if we should not see this as a profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u99	That's a good point. The most convenient place to get back to, to avoid duplication, is based on my treatment of Mr Groot's contribution. Also for royalties, payments must be made to a place where value has been created, where intellectual capital has been created. That doesn't always happen. Then we have an issue to deal with. I would like to comment on that in connection with Mr Groot's contribution, but the answer is essentially the shortest: yes, that should also apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u100	The Secretary of State says that you should treat cases in the Netherlands the same as cases abroad. If one company in the Netherlands lends money to another company, one company adds interest income to its income and then the other subtracts it. Then you have some sort of zero-sum game. If that is across the border, then it may be that the person is allowed to subtract it here, but that it is not added to that, because it is not seen as a loan because it is a hybrid loan. This is still possible in the Netherlands. Although agreements are made at OECD level, it is still possible in the Netherlands to date.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u101	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u102	Why is the Secretary of State waiting for the OECD so that it is not settled for a long time? Why doesn't he take care of it already?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u103	I wanted to come back to that, too, but the short version is: there is no denying that differences between tax systems also create avoidance. Hybrid structures are an example of this. It is not the case that this happens in the Netherlands. It is true that this is happening to countries. On that point, I agree with Mr Koolmees, who is now nodding hard. It's not in the Netherlands. It's tússen landing. Just because it's between countries, I'm going to get on the road that we want to follow to deal with that sort of thing. We do agree that there is something strange going on when the legislator thus describes it in one part and otherwise in the other part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u104	If you come back to something, it's good to stick to it. So don't and don't come back to it and in the first instance give extensive answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u105	I was on my rule number three.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u106	Okay. I would also like to propose the following. I think you were in the middle of a general introduction. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u107	Yes, and after that I have several points.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u108	And then the questions come. If the MPs have any questions in between, I'd like to give them the opportunity to ask them. You look at me very surprised, Mr Merkies. Tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u109	An interruption is usually in two, so I was wondering if I could still get my second part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u110	If it is not a repetition of previous questions from your input, then that's fine. Otherwise we will be stuck at the beginning of the debate. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u111	In response to the Secretary of State, I therefore also advocate making more frequent agreements involving both tax authorities. Then you could tackle those hybrid structures by now anyway, and wouldn't you have to wait a long time for the OECD to settle that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u112	I will come back to that too, but the short version is that you cannot ask one of the countries to go against the legislation in force. The aim of the OECD process is precisely to reduce the differences between these treatments and to provide a legal basis for combating these types of cases. As long as it is not there, it is complicated, but that is why it has to be worked hard, and that is why it is a priority. I was talking about a small country with many cross-border economic relations. If that country wants us to stay alive, then we are doing some honest and logical things. Rule 3 of that is that you have to give security in advance. Cross-border cases are inherently complex. So doing business in the Netherlands could be inherently more complicated because we soon have cross-border relationships. They have more uncertainty and uncertainty has no advantages, only disadvantages. Uncertainty has no advantages, only disadvantages. It is fair and logical to give security in advance, because we follow the law and security in advance gives no results other than a judgment afterwards. That is why this is an increase in prosperity and sensible for a country like the Netherlands. The Netherlands' system is highly valued internationally, including by parties such as the European Commission. In this sense, we do not deviate from our views. However, as much has been said in this Chamber, Dutch tax practice is inherent in a number of logical and fair principles, in accordance with principles of OECD and EU. This does not mean that sometimes things do not happen that are neither logical nor fair in themselves. Because these things happen because of differences in systems, allowing companies to avoid tax, also in chains that run through the Netherlands. The Netherlands also believes that each company should make a fair contribution, in accordance with the intentions of the legislator. Then the question is what we do and what we don't do. What we should not do as the Netherlands is behave like a big country. The three golden rules are very sensible, fair and obvious rules, so is internationally endorsed. So we should not start acting like a big country. We should not set zero taxes on interest and royalties, or increase transaction costs, in general, with which we are going to eat from the neighbors' sign. That doesn't make sense, and it doesn't make sense. Nor is it wise to take unilateral steps in many areas. If differences between systems are the cause, you have to pull together. Because acting together against tax avoidance will make the world, including the Netherlands, better, but unilateral action against tax avoidance will not improve the world, but will make the Netherlands worse. So we want to work together in the OECD and at EU level, if that is the case, to take explicit action against the hybrid structures mentioned by Mr Merkies. But I can also mention treaty abuse and strange practices in the transfer pricing. There are still plenty of things to mention that we all think the differences do not contribute to fair taxation and that we need to resolve together. In some areas we do like to see the Netherlands play a leading role. This is, of course, in the area of transparency between tax administrations. We have always been very much in favour of the exchange of information between tax administrations. The Netherlands has always been a campaigner of banking secrets. We are very much in favour of this, and it is in line with our Dutch principles that automatic data exchange between tax administrations should take the lead, for example when it comes to rulings. That is a pilot between the Netherlands and Germany that we want to start as soon as possible. There is now a negotiation on how and what. This is typical of the Netherlands. Something else for the Netherlands There was a small message in the newspaper.I mention with some pride, namely the successful hunt for carousel fraud. The Tax Administration has developed an impressive and truly impressive toolbox for this, which can be used in cooperation with other tax administrations to look for the international discs that are under way. We are the leading country with our international connections. I come to the contributions of the various Members, all of whom in one way or another touch transparency and data exchange. Mr. Klaver was the first. He's already behind the interrupting microphone...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u113	I thought I was president.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u114	I'm just saying it's there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u115	Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u116	The Secretary of State gives himself a modest pat on the chest when it comes to automatic data exchange, for example on the issue of rulings. The Netherlands is taking initiatives in this regard. What exactly is the difference with the agreements already made in 2012 in the EU Group of Conduct? If I go back in history, I can see that international agreements on automatic data exchange have already been made in 1977. What are the differences?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u117	No, we have an exchange on request now. Someone must now say: I want this and this information from that taxpayer. We also have the spontaneous exchange, but those are still limited numbers. The Netherlands is in favour of automatic data exchange for all types of rulings across the whole range. It does help to do this through a certain protocol, otherwise we will send each other very thick documents. The Netherlands is in favour of systematic and automatic exchange between tax administrations. That's different from what we've been doing so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u118	That's right. It's different from what we've been doing so far. My question is: what is the difference with what was already agreed in the code of conduct group in 2012? I have the document right here. You don't even have to read very far, because on page 3 of 38 it says: exchange information on a spontaneous basis. My English is not very brilliant, but I think this spontaneously means automatic data exchange. This was already agreed in 2012. What's different from what was agreed then?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u119	No, we have three types of data exchange. One is on request. Anyone who wishes to have information must take action against a specific taxable person. The second is spontaneous. This means that the owner of the information, the Tax Administration which has the information regarding a specific taxable person, says, on the basis of a specific reason: you should know this. The third is automatic. That is a very different system, which also deals with very different numbers. Automatic means to everyone and to all. It's about completely different numbers. In the case of spontaneous exchanges or on request, I do not know exactly about dozens, but this is all about everything. That's a very different period. We are at a very different stage in the process. The Netherlands wants to do this, thinks this is organized, is happy to participate and also wants to play a leading role in it. We'll start with Germany. Mr Klaver has several questions. He asks me, among other things, about the register for final stakeholders. I'm walking a little bit on a narrow timeline there, because this is actually the portfolio of my colleague from Security and Justice. There's not really a fiscal interest. The purpose of the register is to get a picture of criminals who, for example, are targeting money laundering or financing criminal activities. It's meant to be. It's not really a fiscal instrument. It's a field I'm not talking about and a wallet that's not mine, but still I tried to answer the questions. The register will be there anyway, but the final form will only be known this summer. Its implementation is foreseen two years later. I understand that partial disclosure has been chosen. It is, of course, important to preserve the risks that Mr Klaver calls them. He mentions two ways of paralyzing those risks and I really can't do that from here on out, because the investigation hasn't been completed to see if that's enough. His rhetorical question was whether we can't go ahead already and whether we don't already have enough guarantees. I don't know. Once and expected before this summer, there will be a proposal on this subject. The Netherlands, at least at the moment, intends to join and do so in an appropriate way, because we too dislike money laundering and the financing of criminal activities. That is the security and justice dossier, but it is the answer as I think it is. Mr Klaver then comes up with something he calls his proposal. I think this is a very good proposal, although we are farther than he might think. He has literally said: a firm approach to the larger business community. That is extremely sensible, if you look at a risk-oriented approach, because big is more important than small and complex is more risky than non-complex. This does not automatically mean that we have to dwell very much on the ruling customers. These are generally not large companies. We are very far away from the big companies. I won't compete with Belgium from here on, so I'll take a break from that. I think, however, that the Netherlands is absolutely at the forefront of the approach to large companies, especially when it comes to control. We have a very special approach to it, we have teams of accountants who have a lot of sector knowledge and based on their knowledge are also accountants related to such a team. There's such a team for every major enterprise. First, a comprehensive risk analysis is carried out. So there's no post-control. Throughout the process there is contact with such an accountant, multi-annual. A detailed risk analysis is carried out by each entrepreneur, including on the basis of a system audit. It's not about having to make mistakes afterwards, but also about being present throughout the process to avoid errors. The Stevens Committee has examined this approach and welcomed the approach taken by the largest companies. This requires a very significant capacity deployment, which is of a totally different order than the capacity deployment we commit to the ruling. I'll be right there, because that's what was asked for. In other words: yes, very comprehensive, continuous and intensive control activities for our largest companies. That's definitely over a hundred. Mr Klaver also hit the sidewalk of the CCCTB. Rhetorically he says: first you say you want to do things together, then there comes something to do together and then you don't want to participate. Not everything you do together is wise. This is not the reason for a commercial about STDs, but not everything you do together is wise. I have been very clear about this in the AA. I have already explained that the Netherlands really believes that profits should be taxed where value is created and that a CCCTB is the opposite. Indeed, it does not tax profits where value is created but above all where costs are incurred. That's something radically different. It is my opinion that this is nonsense in the economic sense. We have given a great deal of thought to the fact that the cabinet, but above all the Chamber, considered this an unlawful transfer of powers. In the same AO, I also outlined that the proposal at the time for a CCCTB would not only be extremely damaging to the Dutch economy, but would, surprisingly, also have a noticeable negative impact on the European economy as a whole. That is why I would like to clarify this point. In the AA, I have only welcomed the fact that the European Commission supports the principle that profits should be taxed where value is created.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u120	That's a very clear argument. The original CCCTB proposal was not warmly welcomed by the Chamber, precisely for this reason. Now the European Commission is going to turn around and indeed tax where value is created, in line with the principles of the Secretary of State. Surely the Secretary of State thinks it is a sensible idea to move towards such a common basis in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u121	That depends very much on what is a common basis. The view of the Netherlands has always been that it is important to prevent a Vpb flight and all kinds of constructions about it. This means that the levy must be more similar and less hybrid constructions must be found in it. It is therefore important that you are more precise about transfer pricing and that there is no good that is cheap in one country and expensive in another. Then the transfer pricing doesn't add up anymore. I do not call that a common basis in itself. There's no less than three C's in "CCCTB." "Corporate" I can follow, "Common" depends very much on the definition, and "Consolidated" seems strange to me. So this is going to be a complicated definition issue. The Netherlands is in favour of combating the illegal and unintended Vpb flight and wants to work on it in OECD context. However, I cannot imagine that there will be a product that combines the three Cs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u122	Please continue. Can you give an indication of the time you still think you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u123	I have yet to comment on the speeches made by the other spokesmen, but they were so disciplined that they have asked fewer and fewer questions towards the end, which means that I have to answer less and less. Mr Merkies, however, is still among the curious, so I have to...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u124	Now you are asking a question from Mr Klaver. Mr. Klaver, your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u125	What a party! I have read in the answer to the questions which controls are currently being carried out. I read that the APA/ATR team received 10,000 declarations and that 497 of them were checked. We wonder what the proceeds have been. What did that add up to? I do not want to organise a competition between the Secretary of State and his Belgian colleague, but I find Belgium's example very interesting. The additional control, especially on the prices of internal netting, agreed in the APAs, led to the finding that circumstances had changed and that this should lead to a higher tax charge in the Netherlands. Tax avoidance is often about money that, for example, third world countries or other countries in Europe are missing, but now it's about what the Netherlands might miss. On this point, I would ask for an extra effort from the cabinet. Can the cabinet look at this again and also free up additional capacity for it? If we can check toothbrushes with welfare recipients, we can also control the APAs of multinationals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u126	This was Mr Klaver's second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u127	Soon my third term will come, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u128	The toothbrush group is down. The tax authorities have to make their best efforts in the places where they can make the most of it. I would like to make this point in advance of Mr Omtzig's question on the tax gap. The rules are all agreements that are very thorough and well considered. The lead time for making a ruling is on average 50 days, so this is looked at in a rather detailed way. 25 people are involved in this relatively small practice. The Tax Administration's opinion is that the big profits can be made elsewhere. We know more and more exactly where to look. I want the Tax Administration to retain the freedom to make the effort on the basis of facts and figures and with good professionals in the places where the most can be achieved. This level of control is considered sufficient for this practice, precisely because we need people to look very closely at the risks that have been identified and that require control in the really large accounts. Therefore, I do not want to regulate the capacity management of the Tax Administration from this point of view without having any further information at this point. Of course, I share Mr Klaver's conviction that we must make the most of our efforts, but if this is the outcome, I would ask him to appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u129	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u130	Mr Merkies spoke about the rulings and used two words on which I must say something. The first word is "hand-knock." I'm really gonna distance myself from that. There are 25 professionals with the code of conduct in their hands and there is no question of a handshake. Period. The second word is "negotiation space." There's no negotiation room. This is also an answer to Mrs Schouten's question. There's no negotiation of the law. The Dutch law is not being negotiated. A guarantee shall be given in advance instead of a subsequent security. That's what the inspector does, that's what the APA/ATR team does, and that's it. Asked what the cost is. Mrs Schouten even wonders whether we should make such a great deal of effort on these matters. There's a team of 25. That team is doing this thoroughly; professionally, according to the General Court. That is an extremely proportional commitment given the fact that the Tax Office consists of 30,000 people. That's all it has to be, but it can't be any less. Mr Merkies asked a question about the exchange of rulings. No doubt he means the automatic exchange of rulings, because that is the new thing. This concerns all types of rulings, i.e. the preferentials and the others. The ambition is broad. Mr Merkies also asked whether we should not do these rulings bilaterally more often. Yes, when it comes to differences in legislation and interpretations, that can indeed be very useful. The bilaterally closed ruling is in the elevator. There are a few dozen of them, but the number is growing every year. It is indeed extremely sensible. Let us note, however, that there will never be a situation in which all rulings are bilateral. But that is precisely where the automatic exchange of information leaps, because it will enable both tax administrations to use the same information. On this basis, they can address each other on the agreements and on the security that has been given in advance. Mr Merkies, like a number of other Members, has also asked questions about country-by-country reporting. Funny enough, this is also Mr Opstelten's dossier, because of the V and J annual reports. That country-by-country reporting's coming up. The OECD is now working on implementation. I don't have exactly in mind when it needs to be implemented, but that will be fast, by 2016 or maybe by 2017. The question on the table, of course, is about openness. Presumed: the Tax Administration does not need this disclosure. For the Tax Administration, it's enough for tax authorities to know this. It is therefore not a question of taxation. Perhaps the publisher is playing a role here, and that is why we see NGOs climbing on the shield, but taxation does not require this disclosure. The OECD has therefore not attached any importance to it. The OECD did not put this on the agenda. However, demand is at EU level. The Netherlands has explicitly asked for an impact analysis for such a public reporting. In doing so, we do not think we can simply rely on the opinions that exist with regard to the banks and the oil industry, for which these things apply. The Netherlands was one of the parties that thought it required an impact analysis to consider this, but the position of the Netherlands naturally depends on the outcome of the investigation. So a pioneering role in transparency: yes, please, but at the moment we know what the effects are. Depending on this, we may be able to discuss it again in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u131	The OECD did not advise this, but that is only because the OECD is consulting with countries and apparently there are countries that are blocking it. So it's not the OECD itself. It would also be nice if there were a little more openness about that. That is why I would also like the Netherlands to be a little more firm instead of saying: we are still waiting three years. Why three years at all? Why do we have to wait for a three-year investigation? Only then will we know something in 2018, after which the government will formulate a position. Can't the Secretary of State just say if he's in favour of publicizing what companies pay in different countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u132	Unfortunately, it's part of my role to say that now, if we don't know the impact, it's not up to me to say if I'm in favour or against. It's not for nothing that people are asking about the impact. You put a lot of data on the table and that can work out differently in different branches. It is wise to first want to know the impact and then consider a next step. I can't make it any more than that. I'm not the project leader of the investigation myself, so I can't comment on whether it could have been faster. It's what it is, but it's wise to know the impact before you go through with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u133	Until that date, I believe that some sort of mutual agreement has been reached. I get the impression that the Netherlands has slowed down. I really do not understand why this should take three years. Isn't this just some kind of delay tactic?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u134	I don't know about any delay tactics. If an investigation takes some time, because things have to be looked at in different countries and in different branches of industry, then I understand that. Stand-off techniques are lame. At least they're not coming from my hand. I think it makes sense for me to be there to examine the impact of your decision to make such a rather far-reaching decision or not. The latter would be equally far-reaching for the speaker of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u135	I suggest that you go further and also answer the questions asked. You have been working for more than half an hour and have so far only answered the questions of Mr Klaver and Mr Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u136	Mr Omtzigt put a number of questions in concrete terms, one of which concerns the tax gap. In the general discussion on this subject, I believe that the AO on the half-yearly report of the Tax Administration explained in detail how I see the future of the tax gap analysis. I see it, because it is a logical consequence of the information-driven approach. For every tax administration, in every country, it is possible to put a finger in the air and say: gut, we think there is still more to be done here. But it will only become interesting and useful if you really know what to achieve based on real samples, deep data analysis and experience numbers that can shift over time. Then you can focus your effort and capacity where you can get what you need. That is what Mr Klaver indirectly asked. I have said that I will continue to work as a logical consequence and a logical part of the broad agenda of the Tax Administration. I am happy to report on this in the next six months' report. I promise Mr. Ommzig is both fun and not fun. No, it's not ready tomorrow and there's not a very small simple schedule that says: then and then we're gonna do that and that. But the final result, the final tool, is many times more "sophisticated" and many times more promising with a much bigger upside than we may have thought here in this room so far. It is very promising to do this really well. That's where we're gonna lead. I promise him a lot of beauty in this area, but it's not going to be a simple agenda. I will come back to it in terms of content and timing in the next six months' report by the Tax Administration. My heart is with this new form of taxgap analysis, as Mr Omtzigt hopefully means.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u137	On October 8, the ruler promised to come up with an idea when pieces would be finished. I am now asking in March, six months later, how a motion adopted two and a half years ago can be carried out in time. I've given shorter deadlines to this government. When will this six-month report come and we will understand what things can be calculated and when will it be about to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u138	Mr Omtzigt's haste is also my haste. I will be as clear as possible in the next six months' report by the Tax Administration. I think it's coming in the last week of March or something. Mr Omtzig knows things like this better than I do. In that report, I'll write down what we could have when. This does not yet have the precision of a simple timetable, but there is some imposance in the experience that has been gained with it so far. I hope that, on that basis, we both think there's another upside in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u139	I thank the Secretary of State for his commitment that the final report will come at the end of March. Then the Secretary of State also honours another commitment, namely to give him well in front of the AA. In the past, also with predecessors, not only the CDA and the PvdA, this has been done very briefly at the AO. Especially since it contains a lot of information, I very much appreciate her being there at the end of March.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u140	If Mr Omtzigt is so pleased with it, I must have made a huge mistake and mentioned a very wrong date.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u141	It's never good, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u142	Mr Groot had actually answered one of the questions, because on the basis of the information he himself came to the conclusion that there was no handshake. I thank him for that. He also asked whether it is now an automatism that the Chamber is given confidential access in individual cases when there is a specific investigation. No, I really don't want to put it that way. It's a little more nuanced. In principle, Article 67 of the General Law on State Taxation wins, in the sense that we do not make data from individual taxable persons available to the Chamber or to anyone else. In this particular case, however, there was so much public that my pragmatism won over my principles. I think Mr Groot can count on us to continue to consider principles and pragmatism, but I do not want to make it automatic that, as soon as something is in research, data will be transmitted immediately. That's not the case in the justice system either. Everyone still has the right to a beam in front of their eyes. That is also the case here. I want to do it along this line. There is always a balance to be struck and there is no automaticity. I have heard Mr Groot's wish. I have also heard his appreciation for the inspection he has received and which has cleared the air. In this sense, pragmatism has served. That is how I understand Mr Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u143	I would like to ask for clarification. So such a technical briefing can be repeated? I have the idea, even without saying anything about the content of this briefing, that it was also appreciated by the Rotterdam team that they could explain a little more about what they are doing. I imagine this could happen a few more times.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u144	Yeah, in whatever form. I have also sometimes suggested that this was not necessary because it was a specific case to do it on the basis of a typical, common, but anonymous case. That gives exactly the same insight. Even if you don't know which household name belongs to it, you can very well judge how that work is done. In this way, I would very much like to open up the way in which these rulings are made. We are in favour of as little mystical as possible and as much clarity as possible. So I'm saying yes to that. Mr Groot also came up with the plan or request for withholding tax on interest and royalties if the final destination is a tax haven. That is a good question, because we are clearly talking here about a possible shadow side of differences between systems. It is good to weigh up suggestions on how we can solve this. However, I find this suggestion inherently illogical and untimely, and I will explain that. I have to make an example of that, and I am doing it now. Let's say there's an American gumball company. After all, Americans eat gum. This has a production site in a country other than the United States or the Netherlands. Let's say in Germany. So the gum balls are produced in Germany and through the Netherlands there are royalty's. They don't do much in the country, they travel through the country. What good is it? It does not end up in the United States, where the owner of the gumball tent sits, but in Bermuda, a tax haven. So royalties that have something to do with the production site disappear to Bermuda. What makes sense now? There are four countries involved. With two of them, it makes sense that they could do something. The first country is the country where it is produced. That produces something and sees a large part of the revenu in the form of royalties disappearing to another country. So that country can say: yes hello, we determine the profit differently; many greetings with your royalties, but this is what we determine about profit. This can and should be done now; the Netherlands has no objection to this. That's possible. So it's not the Netherlands' move, it's Germany's move. The other country that can logically intervene is not the Netherlands either, but the United States. The profits of an American gumball company are not supposed to go to Bermuda. In that sense, these are two logical actors. We do not have to ask Bermuda, but the Netherlands is the least logical party to intervene. Moreover, I find it premature, because this is precisely part of the BEPS project. That is what we are talking about. I have already said that unilateral steps are useless against tax avoidance. For that, another route is sought. It doesn't make the world any better, but it makes the Netherlands worse. Depending on how you do it, it can also be harmful for real business. The OECD is not doing nothing; the OECD is using the logic I have just outlined. The OECD is concerned with three things, precisely in the BEPS project. The first one, and that is the most logical point of approach, is to tighten the rules on transfer pricing to ensure that royalties do not end up on Bermuda. Let us be honest, we can open all kinds of trick boxes with all kinds of withholding taxes to tax something that shouldn't be there at all, but it's much better to ensure that those royalties don't end up there. They have no business on Bermuda. There are no intellectual property activities in the chewing gum field in Bermuda. We must therefore be the first to ensure that they do not get there. That makes sense. This has to do with differences between systems and that is the first logical route of the OECD project. The second route is mainly occupied by the United States. The US was also one of the logical parties in this example. The US is considering anti-abuse measures so that the mother in the US can levy taxes if the chewing gumroyalty's all land on Bermuda. The U.S. is working on that and they're shooting. Their tax legislation is in some way inciting this practice, and it is good that they are coming up with solutions to this. The source country could be another logical point of reference. Thank you the cuckoo! The OECD is also working on anti-Treaty abuse measures to ensure that the source country...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is also discussed in the EU within the framework of the Parent/Subsidiary Directive. On the basis of these logical points of contact, trajectories have been used. In my view, they make more sense in substance than this proposal. I therefore find it untimely to embrace the perhaps fourth best solution now if we have three more logical solutions. I would like to emphasise joint solutions in the multilateral context rather than one-sided steps which are a bit of a mess in the not most logical place. I must point out to Mr Groot that we must take these practices seriously in the OECD context. The things that are happening now are not entirely in line with the legislation of the country where the gum group is located or with the country where the gum balls are made or with the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u145	There is no misunderstanding as to whether an international solution is the best way. I do not oppose it and I would like the Netherlands to be the first to do so. But if that doesn't work, you're stuck with these big financial flows and the Netherlands is used as an intermediary of unwanted financial flows. We see this happening massively. We can certainly make a contribution to countering this. However, that is the second instance. I fully agree with the Secretary of State that the first commitment should be directed towards an international solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u146	But then perhaps the word "untimely" is in place again. I am not now prepared to think about an answer to the sad question of what happens if the OECD project completely fails and what we have to do. Let us focus on sensible measures in this regard. If the world suddenly looks very different after that, we'll talk about it again. But I do not want to embrace unilateral measures at the moment when it is totally inappropriate in the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u147	I'd like to know how much time you think you need.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u148	I should like to comment on three spokesmen who each asked an average of three questions. I'm trying to make that short.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u149	Before proceeding, Members of Parliament shall have a maximum of four minutes' speaking time. Of course you need more space, but you really need to come to the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u150	I'm gonna try to get there as soon as possible, but the subjects aren't exactly trivial. I have answered Mrs Schouten's questions about country-by-country reporting. To the question of technical assistance to poor countries, the answer is explicitly yes. It happens in different ways. With about a dozen countries, we have partnerships for technical assistance, including with developing countries. The Netherlands is a participant in Tax Inspectors Without Borders. The aim is therefore not only to give the developing countries we are talking about their withholding tax, but also to professionalise and contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u151	It is true that assistance is being provided, but it is striking that in the almost poorest countries with which we have treaties, such as Malawi, there is no assistance. Why is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u152	The collaborations which should lead to this type of technical assistance must come from two sides. The receiving country must be ready. In it are reckonings made. We are in contact with all these countries. Mr Koolmees has asked for progress. I'll call it in in a minute. We all have contact with these 23 countries. You look for where you find the most fertile soil for technical assistance. One of the countries that should not be included in the developing world, but to which we give very extensive technical assistance, is Greece. For that there is now a very fertile soil.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u153	I know that we are giving Greece technical assistance, but I am not asking for nothing. It is precisely those countries which are most at risk in this type of treaty and which are themselves, euphemistically, not very rich, even more so: they are very poor and do not receive this assistance. Then I find the answer "fertile soil" a little thin. I want to know whether the Netherlands is really making an effort to ensure that these countries can be a strong counterpart, for example from the Netherlands as a treaty country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u154	The choice of countries to which you provide technical assistance depends not only on the professional level of the tax authorities you expect there, but also on the size of the economy and the complexity of the type of companies that are there. That determines to what extent they need that assistance and have an upside of it. Along those lines, that consideration was made; it was made as it was made. The Netherlands is making quite a considerable effort. I think that should be seen. I'm sure there were other choices, but these have become them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u155	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u156	Mrs Neppérus has asked me to thank her for this question. What can this Secretary of State do to create more jobs? I remind her of the system operation I am working on with heart and soul. It has also asked whether there are rulings for citizens. Whether that is called a ruling may be the question, but security is also available to individuals upon request. I very much endorse her plea for more exchange and cooperation between tax administrations. That's what's happening, and that's what we really need. It is also the Dutch tone in this debate. It has to come from exchange. I thank Mr Van Vliet for his clear statements. I could not have said it more pointy, as the President has already said. Mr Koolmees has asked three brief questions. To whom do the companies report their profits by country? The head office provides the overview to the head office country. The tax authorities will exchange it. In the end, the data will end up in every relevant country. I have the state of play here with regard to the 23 developing countries. There is full agreement with five countries. We are in the process of making agreements with five countries in a very specific way. Ten countries have been approached one or more times or sometimes many times, but we have not yet received a clear or understandable response. Memory letters have been sent and these countries are contacted in a different way. That is the state of play with regard to the 23 developing countries. Here too, however, the Netherlands is only one of the two parties. We can do what we can, but in the end it has to come from both sides. We very much hope that the greatest part of these 23 countries will soon come to fruition. Finally, Mr Koolmees asks me when the first report will come. He is asking for something that I have not thought about yet, but it seems to me that "in the course of this year" should be a logical answer. I'm gonna have another deadline with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u157	This brings us to the end of the government's first term. I see that there is a need for a second term. Then I give the floor to Mr Klaver. Speaking time is 1 minute and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u158	Mr. Chairman. In view of the limited speaking time, I shall proceed immediately to the motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a European corporate tax base will significantly reduce the possibilities of avoiding corporate tax payments;]] [[calls on the government, at European level, to promote a single European basis for the taxation of profits tax on companies, on the basis that profits are taxed in the country where the value is created,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Tax Authority issues 10,000 APAs/ATRs annually, but does not yet control 500 of them;]] [[whereas the Dutch Tax Administration may miss out on income tax;]] [[calls on the government to deploy additional capacity to the Tax Administration to monitor the 100 largest companies with an APA or ATR annually,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the European Parliament is to investigate tax avoidance, through the Special Committee on Tax rulings, and other measures of a similar nature or effect;]] [[invites the Government to cooperate fully in this investigation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Koolmees. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-87]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klaver and Mr Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-88]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-89]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u159	Mr. Chairman. My last fifteen seconds I want to use to explain my final motion. I had no time for that in my first term and in my interruptions. The European Parliament has announced that it will carry out further investigations into LuxLeaks. It has also indicated, looking further at the position of the Netherlands in this regard. In this motion, I ask the Netherlands to cooperate fully in that investigation. Oh, I've got four seconds left!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u160	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to correct one small thing about that hand-clap, which I said about Luxembourg. I think that's important. Why do we know that? That's because of the LuxLeaks. Besides, these things come out. We are not always blessed that leaks occur everywhere. We don't really want to be dependent on leaks. Therefore, there needs to be more openness about the rulings, but also about country-by-country reporting. That's what the next motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that openness about the tax paid by multinationals is important in order to be able to assess their tax position vis-à-vis other taxpayers;]] [[Whereas public country-by-country reporting has already been introduced for banks and companies in the extractive industries;]] [[calls on the Government to work at European level to ensure that other companies also make their tax payments to countries public, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Merkies, Clover and Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-90]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u161	Then my final motion. I am therefore addressing Mr Groot on the question of the definition of 'tax haven', on which we have different opinions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that at present there is no useful definition of the concept of "tax haven";]] [[noting that at present there are jurisdictions where no or no tax is levied;]] [[calls on the Government to define the concept of "tax haven," to draw up a list of tax havens and to inform the Chamber thereof before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Merkies and Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-91]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u162	Mr. Chairman. I thank the government for the clear answers and the promise to return to the tax gap by the end of March. The CDA Group has been looking forward to this for two and a half years, with great expectations from this Secretary of State. The Secretary of State is laughing, but he hasn't done anything wrong. We notice today that the Secretary of State also likes this subject. That's very good. If you get a picture of what's the difference between what you should have lifted and what you've gotten in there, we're doing that exercise with Greece; England and America are doing that exercise every year, and you have a good idea of where you have problems and how you're going to solve them. We had asked a second question about excise duties. At the end of February there would be a response to our own initiative paper. That is another form of avoidance, and of course that has been somewhat included, but we would like to hear it from the Secretary of State. I am also being honest today; you should not laugh so much when we can see that reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u163	Mrs Schouten, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u164	Let me come back to a point that Mr Omtzigt mentioned in his first term. He called for harmonization of the tax base. Is my conclusion, in technical terms, that he's suddenly in front of the CCCTB?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u165	This time I will join the Secretary of State: I am in favour of 'common' and 'corporate', but have some difficulty with the way things are going with the third C. We were against the old proposal, but if the new proposal, as Mr Koolmees pointed out, is more about where value creation takes place, and so if there is a proper definition, which means that it is no longer possible to pretend to create value in both jurisdictions, we are in favour of that part of harmonisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u166	I note that the CDA is a little over the Rubicon on this point, so now it is in favour of a tax that takes place more on a European basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u167	No, that's an incorrect remark. Let me explain what's going on here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u168	Well, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u169	I don't think I have any interruptions. So I have some left.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u170	No, that's not how it works. Quite a short response, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u171	With VAT, we have a complete harmonisation of the European concept. The European Union determines precisely what may fall into the high and low rates. The European Court of Justice in Strasbourg has even delivered a ruling today on electronic books. We think it is important that this kind of harmonisation should take place. We think it is very important for the Netherlands to have a right of veto on the way in which this harmonisation takes place. It is not the case that the CDA Group signs every European proposal blindly on the cross.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u172	You can do it, give it a very short response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u173	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. I was shocked by one answer, namely to the question about the central shareholder register. Is it true that this doesn't start until 2018? That scares me, because I submitted an own-initiative paper on this in 2011. Then there is today's debate. There should be no misunderstanding that the Labour Party also considers an international approach by far the best, but if it does not succeed, that should not be an excuse to do nothing at all, especially if the Netherlands wants to get out of the list of Ireland, Switzerland and Luxembourg. I have tabled a motion to give direction to the Dutch efforts. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the time for aggressive tax planning is over;]] [[whereas the Netherlands has committed itself to taking the lead in tackling international tax avoidance in the OECD and at European level;]] [[Whereas countries such as Ireland, Luxembourg, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands are still used as a link for large interest and royalty flows to tax havens such as Bermuda and the Cayman Islands;]] [[Whereas this is at the expense of other countries' and developing countries' tax revenues in particular;]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts to ensure that measures are taken at European and OECD level to prevent interest and royalty flows to tax havens, including a withholding tax, from reporting to the Court later this year, and in the event that such efforts do not lead to a result as to whether unilateral introduction by the Netherlands is possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-92]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u174	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers. He made it clear that the Netherlands is not a tax paradise in his view, but he did not deny that it is a treaty paradise. That is also why many countries want to be around the fiscal regime. As far as we are concerned, action must be taken, above all, in the spirit of the law, instead of the tax authorities seeking the limits of the law with taxpayers. It all starts with transparency. That is why I co-signed Mr Merkies' motion. We have long argued for country-by-country reporting. Some sectors are already doing so. What does other multinationals do to simply give this insight? I hope the Secretary of State will make an effort to ensure that this is done. I find Mr Groot's proposal interesting, but it is still a bit 'visited'. As far as we are concerned, we are moving forward fully to see how we can impose a withholding tax on royalties. I will advise my group to vote in favour of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u175	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers. In particular, the issue of cooperation between tax administrations and the exchange of information is a significant step forward. I do have a question about the importance of the locational climate. Does the Secretary of State have an idea of the number of jobs we currently have in the Netherlands through foreign companies? [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas an attractive and stable locational environment with associated tax facilities is important for companies to opt for the Netherlands as a location for their business;]] [[noting that the many foreign companies present in the Netherlands provide jobs and economic growth;]] [[calls on the government to make maximum efforts to preserve jobs in the Netherlands and to attract new jobs through a permanent attractive location environment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Neppérus and Mr Van Vliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-93]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u176	Mr. Chairman. I shall submit two motions to do justice to my contribution in the first term. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Dutch ruling practice, as carried out by the Rotterdam Tax Authority, contributes to an attractive tax establishment environment through advance security;]] [[whereas more than 20 EU Member States operate a ruling practice;]] [[whereas security is given to a taxable person through an Advance Pricing Agreement or an Advance Tax Rule only within the framework of law, policy, case law and treaties, which never negotiates the tax rate;]] [[Considering that the Coordination Group on debt securities (CGVP) and the ruling practice also contribute to policy unity and that the final attack is equal to a situation without ex ante ruling;]] [[noting that in its report on tax avoidance, the General Court also concludes that "pre-formed agreements with companies are in line with the rules and policies" and "that the Tax Administration closely supervises internationally operating companies";]] [[calls on the Government to continue to apply the ruling practice in a structural manner and not to take unilateral steps to reduce or abolish it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Vliet and Mr Neppérus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-94]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u177	Then, very soon, the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Dutch Tax Administration facilitates international groups with a comprehensive ruling practice, which helps to mitigate the overall tax burden of those groups;]] [[Whereas such groups often have an extensive organization chart which requires a lot of manpower to understand the Christmas tree and determine the fair share of tax revenue for the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to take the view that the tax revenue in the Netherlands is in real proportion to the cross-border turnover ratio of the whole group,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Vliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-95]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u178	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the clear presentation, particularly on the three rules. I thought that was very clear. Mr Groot's proposal seems to the Secretary of State to be inherent, illogical and untimely. I would add that it is strategically ill-advised and there is not a word of French. Let me interpret it as an election proposal, especially now that I read the motion. It's a lot more friendly in that. It calls on the government to report back to the Chamber later this year. Again, D66 considers it wise to address this at international level and to take really bigger steps forward at OECD level to address this problem. It would be unwise for a country to move separately. This undermines direction and support, where there is at last movement in the G20 framework, in the OECD framework and in the European Union after years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u179	Are you done with your second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u180	No, not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u181	I shall now give the floor to Mr Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u182	That motion states that the international path is first followed. However, that is not without obligation and I do not see why it would be unwise. Conversely, I wonder if D66 isn't charging a hint of suspicion that she's not going to do anything if it doesn't work internationally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u183	No, my reaction was about Mr Groot's first-term announcement. He said the international path is his preferred. I would like to congratulate Mr Groot on his report. However, if this is not possible, he says that the Netherlands must take unilateral steps. As a result, all the other countries that are currently engaged in making these agreements at OECD level are going to wait for the Netherlands to move. That is why I have called it strategically unwise. We have seen this in recent years, for example, in the United Kingdom or Luxembourg. I think that's a wrong order. There will then be a motion to water down Mr Groot's contribution in the first term. It states that it should be considered whether it is possible and what steps could be taken afterwards. I think it is sensible that it should be watered down, but at the same time I think it is also somewhat contrary to Mr Groot's original input. During the year there will be a report. This is a broad deadline, unlike the report of the Tax Administration on what the cabinet is going to do with tax statements. I'm very curious and I'm waiting for that to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u184	Mr. Chairman. I think three questions have been asked. However, I may have missed something, because I always have to write very hard to understand the motions and also to provide a judgment. In my opinion, Mr Omtzigt asked when there would be a response to the own-initiative paper; I would like to look at him to see if I understood that correctly. That will happen very soon. Mr Groot asked about the date of introduction of the shareholders' register. I believe that today we did not talk at all about the shareholders' register, but about the register of ultimately interested parties. I did not mention 2018, but I mentioned 2017. A shareholder register is another thing, I think. I don't know anything about that either. So I cannot answer his question now, but I do not think that it fits in with this debate either. Soon or did Mrs Neppérus say that there was a lot of employment from foreign companies? I'm just gonna see if I can give her an answer or if I can look at her input.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u185	I put it, but I think it is also good to get a concrete picture of it today or at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u186	I agree. Almost a million people work at foreign-owned companies. This is extremely important for the Dutch economy. I'm going to the motions now, starting with the motion in part no. Mr Klaver, co-signed by Mr Koolmees, asked the government to work for a single European basis at European level. I think that principle 'one European basis' is too vague because of the accumulation of all those C's, one of which is more dangerous than the other. I would like to keep a wide distance to CCCTB-like vehicles and I find a large part of the Chamber on my side. I support the fight against evasion, but I do not recommend this motion because it may, with its vagueness, come close to or could be referring to something that we do not want.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u187	The Secretary of State is much better than I was informed of what is happening at European level. The CCCTB hasn't had a long life; it never really lived. The Commission is now preparing a new proposal. This motion indicates the direction in which the profits must be taxed where the value is created. I believe that the Secretary of State has also taken this approach. We think it is important to include this in a motion because I have also concluded in my speech that what the Secretary of State sometimes says about international cooperation is not always the same as what we hear in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u188	We agree that profit should be taxed where value is created and that corporate tax payments should not be avoided. However, I stumble upon 'one European basis'. I don't know what that means. It could mean all kinds of things. Mr Omtzigt was equally unable to imagine this in the debate. So it's more nuanced. That is why I should like to advise against this motion by stating explicitly that I can agree with these two elements of the motion, namely that profit should be taxed where value is created...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u189	There is a motion and there are two elements in it. The Secretary of State agrees, he supports them, but he still wants to discourage the motion because it doesn't contain all kinds of things. I would like to write 15-page resolutions which record all ifs and buts, but this is a wish of the Chamber. In any case, this is a wish of the authors; this could become a wish of the Chamber. In the end, it is up to the Secretary of State to continue negotiating in a European context on exactly what this should look like. I think it's a really weird reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u190	The motion does not mention two, but three elements. Especially at the third, there is room for dangerous doubt. Only because of that third element do I advise against the motion. We agree on the other two.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u191	Mr. Groot, your name is not under the motion. You may ask an explanatory question, if that could affect your voting behaviour. Yeah? Then it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u192	I see the context of this motion in such a way that profits are taxed in the country where the value is created. That is in line with what the Secretary of State himself said. I do not therefore accept the objection to this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u193	The objection to this motion is therefore not in this point, but in another point. That's all I can make of it. Apparently, everyone in this Chamber agrees that profits are taxed in the country where value is created.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u194	Second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u195	That is, after all, the lighter of this discussion. Mr Klaver and Mr Merkies asked in their motion for a resolution on item No. 88 the government, deploy additional capacity to the Tax Administration to control the 100 largest companies with an APA or ATR annually. Here is a procedural and a substantive argument. I mention the procedural argument, but I really do not want to hang on to it. From a procedural point of view, I think it is completely wrong to give political direction to the capacity to maximise tax revenues. I really think that the service has been set up and is going to do it better and better. We should not say here: one a little more and the other a little less. That's, I think, really up to the service. However, because I always find procedural arguments a little faint, not to say sometimes a bit pitiful, I would like to put it another way: I would like to have the opportunity to convince Mr Klaver and Mr Merkies, perhaps in the debate on the half-yearly report of the Tax Administration and the information-driven enforcement, that it is unwise to intervene in this way and to show how things can be done differently. I therefore ask the gentlemen to hold the motion, giving me the opportunity to convince both of the substance that this is unwise. Because procedural arguments give us a somewhat cowardly taste in the mouth. This is what I consider to be Mr Klaver and Mr Merkies. In the motion in part No. 89 calls on Mr Klaver to cooperate fully with the Government in the European Parliament's investigation. I will try to define what the term "complete" is. The only thing I am not going to do is to give Members of this Chamber the documents that I am not sending to this Chamber. With the restriction of the word 'complete' I have no objection to this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u196	That was a motion by Mr Klaver. Mr Omtzigt has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u197	Does this mean that all the documents which will be sent to the Committee of Inquiry in Brussels or Strasbourg will also be made available to the Dutch Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u198	So you're turning it around. I think we should not put the House of Representatives behind us. But that also means that we can only send things to Brussels that we can also send to this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u199	Fine. I take this as a commitment that the confidential documents sent to the Committee of Inquiry will also be available for confidential inspection by the members of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u200	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u201	That makes sense to me. In the motion in part No. 90 member Merkies c.s. notes that openness about the tax paid by multinationals is important in order to be able to judge their tax position. No, it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u202	Mr Klaver would like to comment on the previous motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u203	Did I miss the Secretary of State leaving that motion to the House's judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u204	I said I wouldn't object, but judgment room might be...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u205	Move it. Move it! Move it! Move The motion in part No. I'm not gonna hold 88. On the motion in part No. 87 I'll come back because I think we'll figure it out. We can make 'a single European basis' a 'harmonized basis'. Then we can approach each other at that important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u206	If the motion in part No. For that poor procedural reason, I must strongly advise her not to be detained. The use of the Tax Administration's capacity is really up to the Tax Administration if we all want as much tax revenue as possible. I'm very firm at that. Looking into the kitchen, I can see that there is extremely sensible direction. This is not only happening more wisely than the Chamber can do, but also than I can do myself. I don't need to get involved in this any more than the MPs do. So it's really dissuaded, with an exclamation point. Then I come to the motion on part No. 90. No, I expressly do not think that openness about the tax paid by multinationals per country is important in order to collect taxes or to be able to judge their tax position. I expressly do not think so. I do not want to commit to this in this way either. The impact assessment is on its way and I want this to depend on it. I don't want to do it right now. In the motion in part No. 91 the government is asked to define the concept of "tax haven." This is some kind of one-sided measure. With this we send the reverend in his most aggressive form on the road and then unilaterally. I would like to take this, if this is going to play, multilaterally. I do not want the Netherlands to send lists now to have opinions about other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u207	I'm gonna have to respond to that. The European Commission has proposed multilaterally itself that countries should draw up these lists. It seems logical to me that we should do the same. At the beginning of the previous motion, I can only observe that openness about the tax paid by multinationals is important. Period. If it's just the observation, we can do business. It is, of course, a question of whether the Secretary of State agrees with the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u208	I have not only replied that I do not share the observation, but also that I want to wait for the impact assessment, as I mentioned in the first contribution. That is the second reason not to embrace this motion. It is not said that in the end we could not support such a thing, but only after consideration on the basis of the impact assessment. The motion in part No. Mr Groot's 92th report deals with withholding tax. The example really focuses on a withholding tax. In addition, the motion announces unilateral introduction as an alternative. I have called that illogical and immemorial. I agree with Mr Koolmees that it is also not strategically useful. I can't embrace this motion and I really need to dissuade her. I would stress that I share Mr Groot's ultimate intentions, of course, to ensure that the intentions of the legislators are not acted upon. Mr Neppérus and Mr Van Vliet asked the government in the motion for a resolution on item No. 93 to make maximum efforts to preserve jobs in the Netherlands and to attract new jobs through a permanently attractive location environment. This would be a total shift in government policy, but I have no objection to it. I expressly regard this motion as a strong support for the policy. In the motion in part No. 94 the Government is invited to continue to apply the ruling practice in a structural manner and not to take unilateral steps to reduce or abolish it. This is a very explicit intention and this motion is also a strong support for the policy. In the motion in part No. 95 Mr Van Vliet asks the government to take the view that the tax revenue in the Netherlands is in real proportion to the cross-border turnover ratio of the whole group. That gives us a third figure. Are we going to tax profits where value is created, as the Netherlands wants? Or are we going to do it where costs or assets are ready? That's a CCCTB-like variant. However, this is where the turnover is introduced. Either I don't understand or I understand. In the latter case, I'd really like to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u209	With all due respect, I don't think the Secretary of State understood.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u210	I'd love to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u211	Yes, it is. The point is, and with that I agree with what colleagues have brought in, that if you set up a Christmas tree internationally and set up a complete ruling team in the Netherlands, with execution costs of tons and a running time of months, and then a negligible amount falls down in the Netherlands when you see that it is a multinational with a turnover of billions, you have to look at that. I do not think it is realistic to give a ruling on Dutch activities that amount to a tax amount of a few tonnes, whereas that group earns billions and essential activities take place in the Netherlands. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u212	Here the tax revenue in the Netherlands is put in a direct relationship with the turnover of the entire group. That's very odd. Maybe there are countries that have a McDonald's facility. They don't have to consider the entire McDonald's profits in their local taxes, do they? As far as I understand this better than I have just understood, my judgment on this matter has not changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-3.u213	That concludes this debate. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
