ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u1	Today morning we were allowed to listen to the contribution of the Chamber. It is now up to the cabinet to answer the questions raised. The Secretary of State is still very welcome; thank you for staying with us after lunch. It would be nice if we could do it pointy. The Secretary of State is known to give a concise answer. We appreciate that very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for their contributions this morning. You will understand that I would like to address the questions raised by the spokesmen of the various groups. It is useful for you, too, Mr President-in-Office, if I could just explain how I see the construction of my speech. I would first like to go into the legislative proposal as such. Then I come to the, I would almost say, pièce de résistance this afternoon, namely the bridging regulation, which has been mentioned by all the spokesmen. Then I will have to deal with the labour market effects of the bill. Finally, I would like to address a number of issues raised by several spokesmen. Last but not least, I will respond to the three amendments that have already been tabled. That way, I'd like to streamline the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u3	That's five cubes. That's not much. Generally I try to deal with some questions after each block, but because they are few cubes, it becomes a bit difficult. That is why we may have to interrupt the cubes sometimes, but it would be nice if we could continue to do an interruption round after a block. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is, of course, about the elaboration of a part of the coalition agreement, which agreed that the AOW age would be gradually increased to 66 years in 2018 and 67 years in 2012. From 2022 onwards, the AOW age will be linked to life expectancy. All members of parliament have asked why this bill is needed according to the cabinet. A limited number of Members of Parliament have also asked whether it is still appropriate at the moment. The Netherlands has a wide system of social security. I have heard, also in the Chamber, that we all think that the AOW is a great asset and that we should keep it upright. The affordability of this is, of course, a matter of attention in the medium term, because we are fortunate to see that the average Dutch person in good health is getting much older than before. I am quite clear about this: the draft law before us makes an important contribution to improving public finances in the medium term. Mrs Schouten mentioned that it was an incidental matter. That's right, it is. It's about a number of yearbooks. It is not structural, but it occasionally brings the state budget to the fore. Mr Dijkgraaf has put it very clearly and I would like to endorse it. Although the future looks happier now than it did a few years ago, I say very carefully that it doesn't take away the fact that you have to get your rich budget back on track. Because in the central planning office's pass-through, these figures are taken into account. If this bill were not to be adopted, there would be a significant gap in our national budget in the medium term. So I don't make it prettier than it is: it's just for supporting the whole thing. This bill achieves a cumulative savings of 2.9 billion in the period 2016-2024. In addition, there is additional tax and premium revenue of 770 million cumulatively during the same period. They also asked why the cabinet had only now come forward with this bill and whether it could not have been started earlier. I am not saying anything new to the Chamber if I note here that after the government agreement was reached there was a full legislative agenda in the field of social affairs. We rowed our department with the belts we had. Since an accelerated increase should only take effect from 1 January 2016, it was not necessary to address that proposal immediately. In addition, the social agreement was already clear that this bill had been passed and that the Council of State had issued a blank opinion. On the basis of the coalition agreement, therefore, it was already clear that this was coming. Even then, of course, as a former member of this Chamber, I am committed to saying that a law is only a law when both Chambers have passed. Mr. Chairman. This was already the first block. I'm trying to do it as pointy as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u5	We appreciate that very much. There are five cubes and this is the end of the first block. I'll see if there's any questions. That's the case. I call Mr Ulenbelt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u6	But the law says that increases in the AOW age should be announced five years before. Then why is the Secretary of State attacking the people now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u7	It is otherwise agreed in the coalition agreement. There are, of course, many measures that affect people, of which this is one. I agree with Mr Ulenbelt that it is very nice to announce things on time. That is why I hope that the First Chamber of the States-General will be able to decide on this law before 1 July, so that we can tell people personally what it means to them six months in advance, as the SVB always does.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u8	The Secretary of State has just said: a law is not a law until it has been passed by both chambers. So should we assume from now on that the whole of the Netherlands must prepare itself for what is in a coalition agreement? I think that is a sign of contempt on the part of Parliament. The Secretary of State herself says that the law refers to a period of five years and that it has to be done in time, but then it does not stick to it. People think that's an unreliable government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u9	If there is a new coalition and a coalition agreement is reached, it is of course always the case that there are a number of measures for the country, that these measures are also being published in the media and that people are going to think about what these measures could mean to them personally. The coalition agreement and the measures it contains will only really come into force if Parliament has said yes to it. That is also the case with this law. Then I come to the second block and that's about the bridging arrangement. I listened very carefully to the Chamber on that point. The cabinet has weighed up the urgency of the budgetary problem and the legal certainty for the people who are just before their retirement. The cabinet was of the opinion that I say that in a past connotation, in the sense that we have, of course, supported this in our note on the basis of the report, which was clear to the people who were going to mean it exactly to them. As I said, when the social agreement was concluded in 2013, it was known that the cabinet would speed up the increase in the AOW age, that this was in line with what was in the government agreement and that this could mean that people could face a larger gap. We were of the opinion that it should be expected that in 2019 people would have had sufficient time to cope with the loss of income themselves. That is also what Mr Krol and Mr Ulenbelt referred to. But, once again, I have of course listened to what has changed here today. I can say a lot of words about this.I have a lot to say about it.But if the majority of the House of Representatives calls me to take a step forward to extend the OBR and open it to the influx after 2013 until 1 July 2015, then the cabinet wants to fill that in. The cabinet will therefore provide cover for this in the Spring Paper, which will cover 48 million for one part of the OBR and 4.5 million for the other part of it. The SGP and D66 groups have asked what exactly is going on with the bridging regime, which is, of course, already in force. How has this scheme been used so far? That question was also asked by the Labour Party. Compared to the initial estimate, there is a lower use and also a lower average benefit than expected. In 2013, EUR 4.5 million was spent, EUR 10.5 million in 2014 and EUR 16.6 million for 2015. The estimate for the benefit expenses of the OBR has been adjusted downwards in the second supplementary budget 2014 on the basis of the realisation figures. That reduction has already been made and the released budget has been used for setbacks in other areas. The latest implementation figures show a budget flow according to the revised estimate, as I have just reported to the Chamber. So there's no money left in the OBR now. The expected inflow into the bridging scheme is around 10,000 persons in 2015 and 6,000, 2,500 and 1,500 persons respectively in 2016, 2017 and 2018. The fact that the scheme at first instance has not been properly used could be due to the fact that half of the large and medium-sized pension funds, including ABP, have their own bridging arrangements. Under these schemes, the participant's AOW-hole is covered by its own pension scheme. The introduction of such pre-pension schemes reduces both the number of bridging benefits and the average benefit. A second possible explanation for lower use is that the period to be bridged was two months in 2014. This is therefore clear and part of the target group may have financed the bridging of these two months in a different way. Then there is a second question on the part of the Labour Party. Mrs Vermeij said there were signs that the OBR's income test could be too strict and asked the cabinet to look again at the conditions. The OBR has an entrance test that looks at people's income and wealth. This income test has been increased to 200% of the statutory minimum wage for single people and 300% of the statutory minimum wage for couples as a result of the social agreement. Then, if the OBR is paid from the 65th year to the AOW age, the actual income of that time is deducted from the OBR. That depends on the minimum character of the OBR. This system has been in place since the creation of the OBR. I will look very closely at the exact wording of this on the SVB site, because I do not want it to be subject to two interpretations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u10	Was this the block over the bridge control?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u11	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u12	I had also asked a question about the e-mails of people at the gates of the AOW who have a small income or hardly any pension. I think we're all getting those e-mails. These people do not seem to be eligible for the bridging arrangement, whereas, given the income section, you would actually expect this to be the case. Has the Secretary of State received such signals? Does she indeed check again what exactly is on the terms of the SVB site? She has already said something about this, but I would like an implicit answer to this question. The SVB site contains eight conditions. When you read them all, you do think you're not eligible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u13	I've already promised that last one. I share Mrs Vermeij's view that, of course, it must be a passable arrangement for people. So it has to be very clear. It is a great good thing that people in the bridging arrangement at least do not have to eat their own house. Of course, they do not have to eat their pension provision, unless people have brought that pension provision forward. After all, it is an income provision. I will look very carefully at the wording of things on the SVB site. It should be as clear as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u14	I have another question. There's a forest of regulations. Older people have to deal with a lot of schemes, not only in the field of pensions and AOW but also in the area of care. I would like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State to the fact that communication on this scheme is actually reaching the right target group, so that we would not help people less than we all intend to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u15	This has not been said to deaf ears, because I think that together with the Social Insurance Bank I should not only look at the website again but also at the editors of the letter which the Social Insurance Bank sends to the people six months in advance, who are then confronted with their AOW age.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u16	I would just like to highlight one point which is very important for the VVD Group. I heard the Secretary of State say that if there is a proposal from the Chamber to extend or broaden the bridging arrangement, however you put it, she will look for resources within her own budget to make that possible. Can she explain how she's going to do that again, where that comes from and when?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u17	I have said that it is good practice that if the Spring Note is presented to your Chamber, I will ensure that this wish of your Chamber will be covered from its own budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u18	I have a supplementary question on that. In itself, it is good that there will be a bridging arrangement, but is there any possibility nowadays that if the Chamber asks, the Secretary of State will look for cover? I think that is a great precedent if that is created.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u19	It is if the Secretary of State may, in the second instance, see the added value of such a question. It's possible. I look on my own budget at the coverage of the whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u20	It is a little more serious, because 50 million for this scheme does not mean 50 million anywhere else. Eventually, we'll see that in the Spring Paper, but can the Secretary of State give us a hint of the veil already? For my group, it does play a part in whether we can vote in favour of this motion or not. Leave it open now and move it to the Spring Paper, for example, where it might be removed from people with disabilities, I would find it very annoying. Can the Secretary of State explain where she sees that space already?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u21	In the spring note, of course, we look at all the pluses and minuses. I think that I should discuss this and then offer the Chamber that insight. I am now trying to make a gesture to your Chamber, in the sense that I am really going with and for the Chamber to the cover of this OBR. So that's a gesture of mine. I'd like to look at all the pluses and minuses of the Spring Note at how or what.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u22	Did I hear the Secretary of State say that the bridging arrangement will be extended until 31 December 2015?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u23	22.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u24	2022?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u25	The bridging arrangement is extended until 1 January 2023. The Chamber has made two requests to me as to whether people's influxes could also be extended. This inflow will now be extended from 1 January 2013 to 1 July 2014.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u26	That's not a serious bridging arrangement, is it? Because if the AOW goes up in 2016, that means for someone in 2016 with a benefit from private disability insurance that runs up to 65 years, a gap of three or four months. Is someone like that gonna be in the bridging arrangement or not? I am afraid that the Chamber is about to welcome a bridging arrangement that is not a real bridging arrangement for many people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u27	There was already a bridging arrangement with which the Chamber previously agreed. The Chamber asks me to broaden this bridging arrangement for those who, on 1 January 2013, might have had insight into accelerating the increase in the AOW age, but still had no insight into the law. I just said I'm susceptible to that. So that's what I'm offering you solace for. The same applies to the extension of the bridging regime. I think that saves quite a sip on a drink for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u28	Last time, Mr. Ulenbelt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u29	Since the Secretary of State mentions the date of 1 July 2014, people who subsequently have an AOW-hole will not be entitled to bridge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u30	That's what the Chamber asked me to do and I'm getting on with it. I come to my third block: the labour market. The CPB study shows that changes in the labour market, such as the increase in the age of AOW, which means that older people remain active longer in the labour market, do not lead to structural displacement of young people. This is because the size of the labour market is not static, but as a rule new labour supply is accommodating without compromising the employment of others. The trend in recent years shows that the increase in the employment rate of older people in recent years has not led to an increase in youth unemployment. Young people enter jobs other than those that older people leave when they reach retirement age. We have, of course, already taken a number of measures. I mention the premium discount, which makes it financially more attractive for employers to employ an older beneficiary. At the request of the SGP, measures will be taken to address the problem of cashing out the premium discount for small businesses in particular. In addition to the premium discount we have the no-riskpolis and the test placement. We also have the sector plans. In short, we are already doing a great deal to keep the labour market very open for the elderly. I also mention the Action Plan 50PlusWorks. Last summer, the SZW Minister adapted the subsidy scheme to make better use of it. The age limit has been reduced from 55 to 50 years. This has led to a significant increase in the number of applications for training vouchers and placement fees. The UWV also expects this progression to continue in 2015. Mr Heerma, Mr Krol and Mr Dijkgraaf asked me if I wanted to follow the labour market effects. I am delighted to say yes to that, because the monitoring I intend to do will initially take place as much as possible on the basis of existing and regular statistics from the CBS. I would, of course, like to point out that I will come into contact with the CBS in order to further refine this monitoring. I am thinking, for example, of a breakdown by age in order to take better account of the rising AOW age. However, I must point out that, of course, the development of the employment rate depends on several factors. So it is not always easy to measure the pure effect of this bill, but that does not mean that I will do my utmost to do so as well as possible. The Action Plan 50PlusWorks supports older jobseekers in finding work. Mr Klaver van GroenLinks asked me exactly what we are doing. The action plan will now run until 1 January 2017; what will we do after that? At the moment, I think it is a little premature to extend its duration. That doesn't change the fact that I take the concerns of the Chamber seriously. That is why I want to look closely at the labour market position of older people in the second half of 2016. At that time, I will consider whether it is desirable to extend the duration of the action plan. Mr Klaver has asked if I am prepared to extend the IOW beyond 2020. The Income Provision Act entitles older unemployed people to income support after the unemployment benefit and continues up to the AOW age. I have already agreed with the social partners in the social agreement that we are going to evaluate the IOW. After that evaluation, I would like to consider whether the IOW should be renewed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u31	We are done with the block of labour market effects. In any case, there is an interruption by Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u32	On the one hand, I had expressed my appreciation of the action plan and, on the other hand, I had spoken a little madly. Among other things, it concerns all kinds of social media training; measures where I doubt its effectiveness. If the Secretary of State is considering whether to take further action or whether the action plan should be implemented, will it look at the effectiveness of the various measures? Will it be explicitly considered whether other matters are possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u33	The answer to that is yes. I'm coming to the fourth block, varia. Mr Ulenbelt and other Members have asked what exactly is going on with the FLO in this case. The Human Rights College has stated that the Ministry of Defence is raising age discrimination, according to Mr Ulenbelt. The regulations in question are, of course, not with me, but with the Secretary of Defense. I understand that discussions on these arrangements are currently taking place in the Defence Sector Consultation. A solution for the AOW-hole is part of the recently concluded sub-agreement and is now being submitted to the supporters of the organisations concerned. I come to the other FLO regulations, because they have been asked more widely, also by the Labour Party. In many sectors, FLO schemes have already been replaced by schemes which make use of life-long leave and old-age pensions based on freedom of choice and individual agreements. The Empire is mainly concerned with substantially burdensome functions in the prison system. There is now a new scheme, the duration of which depends on age. People can decide when it enters. As from 1 October 2014, this new regime will be available for withdrawal. Of course, the problem is also at stake in the defence sector. These are civilian personnel and military personnel who have left the service under FLO arrangements. A provision is now being made to cover the consequences of the absence of the AOW benefit. This provision will be implemented by 1 October 2015 at the latest. For former firefighters and former staff, it is important that the FLO schemes for people born after 1949 on 1 January 2006 have been abolished and that they have been replaced by schemes using life-long leave based on freedom of choice. The adaptation of all these arrangements at the Rijk, Defense and municipalities is the subject of collective bargaining. The cabinet is aware of the fact that this is now being discussed. With the extension of the income test from the OBR to 200% WML and 300% WML for singles and couples, a solution is already offered for many people who have gone with FLO. In addition, the bridging scheme of the ABP is important, which allows additional retirement pensions to be brought forward. On many fronts solace is offered. Where this has not yet been done enough, the social partners are in the process of finding a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u34	Bringing up ABP pension is a cigar from your own box. The Human Rights College has accused Defense of age discrimination. The judge said the same thing. And now the Secretary of State says it's on the collective bargaining table. But if the judge has spoken, the Secretary of Defense, the government legislator, is supposed to behave like that, isn't he? That doesn't have to be a negotiation issue anymore, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u35	Employers and employees talk in the broad sense of the word, also within the context of Defence, about many things, including how to deal with the follow-up of FLO schemes. This is a point of attention. I am sure that court rulings will be taken seriously. The Minister of Defence may be asked about the state of play; the same applies to the other part of the negotiating table, namely the employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u36	The Secretary of State refers to a partial agreement. I read that partial agreement. So there's nothing in there. It says they're trying to solve something. The three-month gap isn't settled, it's in there. Now the Secretary of State shouldn't try to send the Chamber with a brat in the reed by saying, "They'll take care of it there." I think the Secretary of State should just take care of that with the DOD. Tighten that hole!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u37	No one's being sent in the reeds with a rug. It must be clear that the OBR applies to everyone, up to 200% WML and 300% WML respectively. The rest of what you need to settle by collective agreement should be arranged on that table. I should like to ask a question on the provision of information in the broad sense of the word. If the two chambers agree to this bill, the intention is to publish the law in the Official Journal by the end of June 2015. The SVB approaches people entitled to AOW benefit, about six months before reaching the AOW age, with information on how to apply for the AOW benefit. This is addressed on the SVB's website and the government's website. I will ensure that this communication is also addressed in national and regional newspapers and also in radio spots. Furthermore, older people on the SVB's websites and on the basis of their date of birth can calculate with a calculation tool what the AOW age will be for them. The Pension Register is already presenting the new AOW age towards the future. Future changes will also be seen. Mr Van Weyenberg asked a question about international treaties. As is well known, on 1 January 2015, the Export Disability Benefits Act entered into force. This law lays down the policy of no longer exporting benefits, unless treaty agreements have been reached with the country concerned which adequately regulate the enforcement of benefits. I'm not telling you anything new. It has been the Dutch Government's commitment to conclude as many of these treaties as possible. With Mr Van Weyenberg, I have to say that this has not been achieved with all the countries of the world. Mr Weyenberg has asked us to look again at the countries where there are a reasonable number of AOW'ers. I admit that I am prepared to explore whether there is still a willingness on the part of more countries to conclude such a treaty. For the sake of clarity, these are eight countries, where more than 100 AOW beneficiaries live. Mr Heerma asked about the coordination between the two. I had made a commitment on this earlier on the basis of my interaction with his colleague Omtzigt. Of course, we're going to see how the AOW's entry date, pension and dismissal can be synchronised. The discussions on this matter are already under way, and I intend to inform the Chamber about it before the summer recess. I have thus also had the need for further work, because this is an integral part of it. I will conclude with the comments made by Mr Klein and Mr Krol on the flexibility of the AOW. We have, of course, sent a letter about this. For the sake of clarity, I would like to say the following. If you were to flex the AOW, you'd need a lot of extra money for that, at least 1.1 billion. The sustainability of the rich budget is really a matter of attention. It's also very difficult to implement. I have two cries of hearts at this point. In the context of the pension dialogue, too, the Dutch are constantly asking me to keep this pension provision as transparent and clear as possible. If you were to flex the AOW, it would become more complicated again. For the execution it is really very difficult. Moreover, such a flexibilisation of the AOW is especially beneficial for the thicker wallets. That's why I'm not really excited. So much for the flexibilisation of the AOW, on which Mr Klein has made his full contribution. That's what brought me to the end of my last block.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u38	The second last block. Mr Madlener has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u39	I was wondering if the Secretary of State knows what the retirement age is in Greece at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u40	I haven't memorized all the retirement ages of the whole world. I know that Mr Madlener has been trying throughout the debate to get Greece on the map as well. That is up to Mr Madlener, but I do not think it is appropriate to discuss it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u41	On the contrary, I want to talk about it, because many countries in Europe are now being paid with Dutch taxpayers' money. The measure we are discussing now means that money is being taken away from Dutch workers. They may retire later, but that money flies right out of the Netherlands, including Greece. For this reason, I think it is very relevant that the Secretary of State makes a comparison between the Greeks who retire at our expense and the Dutch pensioners who can pay for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u42	[[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan niet anders dan zeggen dat er weer een behoorlijke fruitmand aan de orde is: appels, peren, bananen en kersen.]] It must also be said that, of course, we are taking these measures to keep our national budget straight and to ensure that the AOW, which is a great asset and which many countries are looking at with considerable interest, is actually one that you would like the whole world to have such an old age provision standing right here. It can be done by such measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u43	Now we do not know the answer, Mr Madlener. You can tell me yourself. We'll be getting e-mails from people who ask what age is. Mr Dijkgraaf has a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u44	The entire Chamber is now of course curious about its age. As Mr Madlener raises the question, he knows exactly how the scheme works in Greece.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u45	It's a bit of a cliffhanger.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u46	Yes. But that includes the increase that has been announced and which is also being accelerated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u47	That's right!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u48	If you look at the practice, the Greeks retire a lot earlier than we do. You can retire there ten years earlier. The age is being increased, but this is not proportionate to the Dutch increase in the retirement age.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u49	The Greeks also have a much higher unemployment rate than we do, and the Greeks are by no means happy with that. Again, here all kinds of fruits are compared. I am only expressing the hope that the elderly throughout the world can simply have a decent income provision. Oh, that'd be lovely! I come to Mrs Schut's amendment to item No. 7. It asks that the increase in the AOW-age pension, which is based on life expectancy, should be progressively higher than the AMvB's, but not the AMvB's, but a different vehicle, i.e. the ministerial scheme. Because the law has slammed that the AOW goes up with steps, the vehicle doesn't really matter that much. I therefore leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u50	I have a technical question about the amendment. I read that it is established by General Measure of Management. The amendment deletes the requirement that the determination of the increase should take place with General Measure of Governance. At an AMvB we have the opportunity to find some in the Chamber. If this amendment is adopted, is it true that we in the Chamber are no longer able to find so much of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u51	Since, strictly legally speaking, the increase in the AOW age does not require a decision, it is also possible to delete the AMvB. As it stands in the law, there is no veil on the AMvB either. Instead, it is possible to publish the increase directly in a ministerial notice in the Official Journal. So that's possible in itself. It's up to the room. Since it is completely stuck in the law and the Council of Ministers cannot add any more ifs or buts to it, I have no objection to using the vehicle ministerial arrangement instead of an AMvB. But I'll leave it to the Chamber. Maybe the Chamber prefers the AMvB's vehicle after all. Mrs Schouten has a point, because with an AMvB you can, even if it is completely stuck in the law, always use the moment to put on glasses, if I may say so. But the increase comes directly from the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u52	There must have been some magical reasons to opt for an AMvB. At an AMvB, the Room itself still has the possibility to ask for a veil. That is not the case with a ministerial decision. Does the Secretary of State recognize the latter? Can she indicate why an AMvB was chosen at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u53	In the law it is now settled by AMvB. An AMvB must go through the Council of Ministers and through the Council of State. I am very honest and crystal clear about it: the vehicle AMvB was chosen, I think, because it is an execution vehicle. However, since the formula for calculating the AOW age in the law does not give the Council of Ministers any room to deviate, you might say in the second instance that that AMvB is not strictly necessary. However, I leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber and leave it there. Both vehicles are very easy to use.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u54	I have the impression that it is common practice for amendments to the law on these types of tax rates and ages to be regulated by law or by AMvB. I can't think of many examples where that didn't happen this way. Isn't it unusual to use a ministerial arrangement for such a "heavy number," to put it that way? That's hardly common, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u55	Well, "Ministerial arrangement"-- it's really a ministerial announcement in the State News. Of course, that's common. If you are sure that the concrete is actually landfilled and that you need to have a moment each year to tell everyone exactly what the AOW-right age will be and that this should be in the State's news, then of course it can also be with ministerial announcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u56	It follows from the fact that the amendment is there. That is a proposal that can be made. However, the question is another one. If you're talking about these kinds of numbers, like tax rates and therefore AOW ages, isn't the usual route for an AMvB? Isn't it unusual for you to make that a ministerial arrangement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u57	It can be both, because the percentages are clear in advance. Otherwise, this is not the case, as with income benefits. But the percentages are clear in advance. I don't think this is... how do you say that... "Halszaak," says Mr. Dijkgraaf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u58	A point for Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u59	Yes. So, again, since it is not a matter of substance, I leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u60	I have a question for clarification. It is true that when we announce the increase in the age of AOW as I propose in the amendment, there are only two tastes, namely: that age will be increased or not increased. So the content of the AMvB would only be that the AOW age is increased or that it is not increased. There is no way to deviate from an increase or a non-increase because all the formulas for achieving an increase are explicitly laid down in the law. Therefore, it is also possible to be satisfied with a notice. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u61	I think Mrs Schut is saying exactly what I have been trying to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u62	Well, that's something, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u63	I still have a "what, if" question on this point. Let's say it's still an AMvB and it's gonna be on the Council of Ministers and it's gonna be on the Council of State. If, for whatever reason, there are serious arguments to depart from the law and regulation in the law, does it matter whether it is an AMvB or a ministerial announcement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u64	The route is different, of course. Mrs Vermeij has a point. Just because the Council of State has to have time to take a look at it, the route is different. However, the law as such does not offer any room. That's why it's not a big deal for the Cabinet. But, once again, I can imagine, also listening to the little debate, that Members of the Chamber say, for their reasons, that we choose the AMvB anyway. It's possible. As far as I and the Cabinet are concerned, however, it can also be done with ministerial announcements in the Official Journal. That also has the charm of simplicity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u65	I understand that answer, but my question was a "what, if" question. The cabinet decides to depart from a rule which it itself imposes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u66	In that case, of course, we must come to the Chamber. Then there's got to be some real change in the law. Of course, we will not be able to decide anything by ministerial regulation, because we will then be able to depart from the law. That is not what Mrs Schut is trying to do with her amendment. If I have understood her and her amendment correctly, she is simply trying to print it in the Official Journal as lean-and-mean as possible, to put it in good Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u67	Does that mean, whatever the outcome of the vote on Mrs Schut-Welken's amendment, that by way of derogation, whether it is an AMvB or a ministerial arrangement, there will always have to be a legislative amendment to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u68	Yes, because the law makes no mistake about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u69	Let us now move on to the Schut-Because of item No. 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u70	That's right. Mrs Schut would like an increase to be announced earlier. The cabinet elects for five years. Mrs Schut wishes to add a longer period of announcement to that. The law has chosen the system to leave the notice period of the increase for five years. I'm kind of attached to that, too. A longer notice period will also increase the uncertainty of the forecasts. Theoretically, the higher life expectancy could be adjusted downwards. I wouldn't want that to happen to people that way. So I think five years is a good time. I just prefer that. That is a clear announcement period, so that everyone has the same announcement period and the uncertainty of the forecasts is the same for everyone. So I would not like to accept this amendment and not leave it to the House to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u71	So you're dissuading the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u72	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u73	Unfortunately, the Secretary of State has already given her opinion. Then I do have some questions about the argument behind it. If it is clear that the age of AOW will have to be increased in the future, because the CBS forecasts do not leave any doubt about this in successive years, then the only thing I intend to do with the amendment that you are announcing the decision earlier. Why would I want to do that? Because we are now having a whole discussion in the Chamber, for example about whether people have been able to prepare for the increased age of AOW. That would like to avoid in the future. How is the Secretary of State going to do that, other than with such an amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u74	That clear five-year announcement period, I think, is clear. If the CBS has projections of life expectancy, they are of course published on the SVB site and in the media. If people are now 23 and they wonder how long they have to work on the basis of current forecasts until they are entitled to AOW, then of course they can get started with that insight of the CBS. In any case, these five years should be timely. Anything that comes out of it from the CBS can pass on people for themselves. Five years, I think it's a good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u75	I'm just wondering what's against doing it longer. We all know that at least the CBS projections up to 2060 indicate that life expectancy will only increase and not decrease. The law has also created only an opportunity to raise the AOW age and not to bring it down. So what would be against, if there were an increase in life expectancy, to create the opportunity to announce that earlier? I don't quite understand the objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u76	It may be because of my upbringing, but I don't know exactly what's going to happen in the womb of time either. If you make an announcement period longer than five years, you strongly rely on projections. Of course, anything and everything can happen for a period of time. Again, I think a five-year period is simply clear, and very passable for people as well. So I'm gonna stand for those five years anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u77	I'm going to think about this amendment. The Secretary of State says that people can see the CBS projections, but isn't it true that people will be able to see an expectation in the pension register and on the SVB website?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u78	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u79	It is not as hard as Mrs Schut-Welken's goal, but people don't just have to search the CBS site in data. I think we agreed that in the pension register, the most likely variant will always be understood. I remembered that, didn't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u80	I now know people in suits who are 39 years old who are really already thinking and calculating what their AOW age is going to be based on the current forecasts. Edoch, of course we are not sure whether, if they are 68 or 70 years old, they will actually apply the current AOW-lawable age. That's not quite clear. In short, I think those five years are a good time. We are happy to provide insight into the pension register and into all kinds of other vehicles of government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u81	This includes the Social Insurance Bank, because I think it is also an important communicator in this matter. I have another question about this second amendment by Mrs Schut-Belch. We have just had a discussion about this hard formula, which is so hard in the law and which cannot be broken. Isn't this amendment a little contradicted by the fact that this hard formula is being abandoned again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u82	You can make all kinds of arguments for or against that. I'm very much in favour of clarity, because then it's clear to every Dutchman that five years in advance you know what you're up to. Then you can puzzle out the insight yourself on the basis of all the media we have at our disposal, including the SVB website.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u83	My intention was by no means to create clarity. I do not want to announce it until the forecasts in the law indicate that you would have to increase the AOW age for a consecutive number of years. I do not wish to undermine in any way what is already regulated in the law on this front.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u84	Then it's just like an appreciation of how you communicate things. On the basis of the law, I would like to maintain those five years. Otherwise, you can rely on all kinds of other data that you can pick from the media I just mentioned. I come to the last amendment, the amendment to item No. 10. That amendment will make possible the variation, as we always call it, of pensions already introduced before 1 January 2016. It is important that this can also be the case with the acceleration of the increase in the age of AOW entitled. I therefore have no objections to the substance of this amendment and leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u85	Thank you. So much for the first term of office. I'll take a look around to see if there's a need for a second term. At least Mr Ulenbelt wants to speak. The floor is for him, and then we'll find out if other MPs want to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u86	Mr. Chairman. Accelerating the increase in the AOW age is unwise and absurd. Those are not even my words, but the words of FNV and CNV: parties in the polder on which the cabinet regularly relies, but which now completely ignores it. The arguments are clear. In times of unemployment, you should not organise extra supply on the labour market. It was promised that announcements of increases would take place five years before time. Now it's happening in almost six months. The urgency with which the cabinet screened when it arrived is gone. Before the election, we got the message that things were going really well. That urgency is just gone. But what remains is the great financial uncertainty for people on the eve of their retirement. All the groups have been given the cry of hearts. People thought to be sure of what their financial future would look like after stopping working, but they are now in great uncertainty. Worse still, some have sleepless nights of it. I quoted Mr Den Engelsman's example. It can cost you €10,000, €20,000 or even €24,000. There goes your savings. That's where your intentions go for things you wanted to do after your AOW age. I have advocated a better bridging arrangement. I would like to invite the Secretary of State to send the new regulation she is now announcing to the Chamber before the vote. With what she has said so far, it is hardly an improvement. I hope that those Members of Parliament who think this is going to be a good arrangement will be convinced once they see it on paper that this is not the case. It is about providing people with security, especially to those who have retired early and not come back. That is why I would like to call for a real improvement in the bridging regime. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, with the accelerated increase in the AOW age, more people are more likely to suffer the financial consequences;]] [[Whereas, for the time being, limited use is made of the bridging regime;]] [[calls on the Government to limit the supplement to 200% WML for single persons and 300% for cohabitants, with the maximum amount of income prior to entitlement to the bridging allowance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ulenbelt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34083-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u87	So unlike the existing bridging scheme that complements the pension you had to the social minimum, this is a bridging scheme that starts from replacing the AOW you missed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u88	I'll keep trying. During the first period, Mr Ulenbelt refused to answer the question whether he would come up with a plan to raise the age of AOW to 65. I'm gonna try again now. The SP has been saying variants on "65 is 65" all day. Will there now be a concrete plan by the SP to reverse all this, so that the SP at least finally adds the deed to the word?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u89	I can reassure Mr Van Weyenberg. The secret missions department of the SP has several assignments and one of them is the age of 65 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u90	After two years of tambouring by Mr Ulenbelt, that is very late, but I look forward to the proposal. My group is against it, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u91	Now we all know where we stand. At D66, you have to keep working until you drop dead. We want people at the end of their working lives to be able to live a quiet life together with their partner or children.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u92	Mr Van Weyenberg, I have heard you twice, sorry. Moreover, Mr Ulenbelt has already left.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u93	I'd like to make this a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u94	Oh, one second, you want to make it a personal fact. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u95	I believe that we have supported far-reaching measures with many groups. That's what we do with a very decent AOW. The parties opposed shall bear the responsibility for making proposals. Mr Ulenbelt did not do that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u96	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for answering our questions. The Secretary of State's answers are not enough to convince us, considering everything. 50PLUS continues to raise serious concerns about the usefulness and need of this bill under current economic conditions and the favourable state of public finances. The consequences of this bill for many thousands of people find 50PLUS too far-reaching. It's a disproportionate hit on income. The employment effects are totally undesirable. Moreover, the proposal is particularly unfair to vulnerable people with an average reduced life expectancy. I have said a lot about this in the first place, but I have not heard the Secretary of State. In short, this bill is not social and not just. Moreover, the transitional arrangements are still inadequate. I understand that Mr Klaver van GroenLinks is coming up with a motion on this subject, which I welcome. This hard cut reduces public debt by less than 1%. Of course, we are talking about a great deal of money and the reduction in public debt is also desirable. But is this wisdom? According to 50PLUS, this hard cut is not necessary, unfair and affects a limited population too hard and focused. Moreover, this is economically counterproductive, because in fact we are withdrawing purchasing power from the economy. There is a lot of criticism from the political groups today about this unfortunate bill and certainly about the transitional regime, but this bill will probably come through this Chamber. Maybe there's still some hope. There were elections last week. I understand very well that, in view of the expected new composition of the First Chamber, the Secretary of State expresses the hope that the Senate will be able to decide before 1 June. However, she will not blame me for the fact that 50PLUS hopes that this will be after 9 June.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u97	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her reply. I have listened carefully to the debate. We had already indicated in the first period how we were looking at this bill, namely that it is unfair to introduce a path that has been carefully designed to increase the age of AOW, coupled with life expectancy, much faster in between. That is our biggest objection to this bill and it has not been removed. The Secretary of State has actually shown how important it is that you, as a legislator, are also predictable. In the amendment tabled by Mrs Schut-Welkins, she gave a number of reasons. 8 to attach very much to a period of five years, in which it would be announced what the increase in the AOW age would be. You can say anything about this bill, but not that there is a five-year period in which an increase is announced. So the Secretary of State himself has made the argument as to why this is not fair. Nevertheless, it is defending this bill. We were not in favour, we are not in favour and we will not be in favour. In other words, I will advise my group to vote against this bill. I am glad that there will be a more extensive bridging arrangement, but if we do not adopt this bill, we will not have to adopt such a regulation at all, and we will be even easier off.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u98	Mr. Chairman. The VVD considers this bill to be very important, as it contributes to the sustainability of public finances in the medium term. We keep the expenses for the AOW affordable and stabilise those expenses during this cabinet period. The bill provides cumulatively EUR 3.6 billion. Of course, the VVD is not going to risk this saving. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the positive response to two of the three amendments. I also welcome the State Secretary's commitment to better inform the AOW people about increases in the AOW age. It is very important that people know where they stand as soon as possible. I have heard very well that the Secretary of State himself is going to look in the budget for cover for proposals from this Chamber. The VVD considers it important to accelerate the AOW age and to balance AOW expenditure in the medium term. We would like to see the amendment, which the Secretary of State unfortunately did not give a favourable opinion, also adopted. Then you have the opportunity to announce an increase much faster, allowing people to prepare themselves faster and better for an increase in the AOW age. I call on my colleagues to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u99	On the basis of the second term of the VVD Group and given the reply of the Secretary of State, I am confident that the VVD can share the broad shared desire of all groups to extend the bridging regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u100	In the first period, I have left no doubt that we are not in favour of this, but we consider this bill to be very important: EUR 3.6 billion by accelerating the increase in the AOW age. We do not want to put the support for this bill at risk. From my first term, Mr Heerma will have understood that we ourselves have not tabled this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u101	I welcome those last words, because that is important to us too, given the first deadline. Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers. I made it clear in the first term that the bridging regulation is very important. It now seems to be being amended on two points. I'd like to announce that I'm co-signing two motions. One was tabled by Mr Klaver and a number of others, and the other by Mr Heerma. I am not going to say anything about it to build up the tension a little bit; it is also a little faint to announce motions in substance. The only thing I want to link to it is that it is crucial for us to be able to vote for the law that those two motions make it. That is why I would ask you to vote first on the motions and then on the legislative proposal, so that we are absolutely clear on what our vote for the legislative proposal can be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u102	That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u104	Mr. Chairman. I indicated in the first term that the rhythm proposed by the cabinet for the accelerated increase is in line with the rhythm in my party's electoral programme. That is why we are in favour of it. I have expressed concerns about the bridging arrangement. I was pleased to hear Mrs Schut-Welk's response to Mr Heerma's questions. The two motions to which Mr Dijkgraaf has just referred concern the bridging regulation; let me tell you that. They are both co-signed by my group and are indeed important. One more motion, which concerns the treaties on which the Secretary of State replied in her reply: we can do our best. I'd like to record that in a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that AOW beneficiaries living in countries with which the Netherlands has not concluded a social security agreement are by definition entitled to receive an AOW equivalent to the married standard because it is not possible to check for cohabitation;]] [[Whereas, following the adoption of the Export Benefits restriction Bill, it has been used to conclude a social security convention with as many countries as possible, but still no convention has been concluded with a large number of countries;]] [[also considering that the starting point should be that AOW beneficiaries receive the AOW benefit to which they are entitled;]] [[calls on the Government to attempt to conclude a treaty with at least the eight countries in which more than 100 AOW beneficiaries live and to inform the Office for the 2016 SZW budget on the cabinet deployment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34083-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u105	Mr. Chairman. In the first term, I have already indicated that the CDA election programme also includes an acceleration of the increase in the AOW age. Our electoral programme also states that this includes a bridging measure. In the first instance, I have argued with various groups in this House that this should be done in two areas and have called on the Secretary of State to take this to heart. I have heard in the first term from the Secretary of State that she has heard this request from the Chamber and is prepared to find cover for it within the Social Affairs budget. However, in an interrupting debate with Mr Ulenbelt, the Secretary of State did at one point say that it would be extended to 1 July 2014 for the second category. In the Chamber, the wish was expressed to do so until 2015. I have reason to believe it was an omission and would like to record this in the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that people who entered VRS or pre-retirement before 1 January 2013 and face an income gap may benefit from a bridging measure AOW;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control,]] [[calls on the Government, the AOW bridging scheme, to open up as regards the acceleration of the increase in the AOW age, to people who have taken up early retirement or pre-pension between 1 January 2013 and 1 July 2015 and are faced with an income gap,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Dijkgraaf, Mr Klaver, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Vermeij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34083-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u106	Mr. Chairman. My group is pretty upset about this bill. We really think it's a witness to an unreliable government to raise the AOW age on such short notice. That's what gets people in trouble. I would like to describe the course of events as inappropriate administration. The VVD has clearly indicated that the reason for this is the sustainability of public finances. If cheques are paid out of Brussels because things are not in order, this cabinet is ready with a bag of money, but when it comes to paying the pensions of its own people, let it go. Now it's clear who's paying that bill. These are the elderly and the people who need to retire. That is not convenient, because the prediction that we would have a very tight labour market in which young people would have to be taken out of school for a job does not seem to be a good thing at all. Unemployment is hugely high. According to a recent ABN AMRO report, it also remains high. And now we know why: because this cabinet is just doing stupid policy. This cabinet is in the process of keeping unemployment high. It ensures that young people do not get to work and that older people either have to continue working or are unemployed for longer. It's not economical either. That is why my group will be voting against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u107	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions asked. As I indicated in my contribution, the proposal for an accelerated increase was also included in the GroenLinks electoral programme. I think the variant chosen by the cabinet is even more beautiful than the way in which GroenLinks had proposed it. We went a little faster in the beginning, while the cabinet chose to turn it around: at first just a little slower and that acceleration at the end. This gives maximum security to people within the current conditions. At least they have the maximum preparation time. I welcome the answer given by the Secretary of State. It's still a nasty bill, but the Secretary of State has further argued why she went through with this. I, along with a number of colleagues, would like to make a motion to make it clear that the bridging regime needs to be strengthened and that there must be an extension to ensure that, no matter how uncertain there is for people, we are able to offer maximum security. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government agreement on "Smacking Bridges' agreed that from 2016 onwards the AOW age will be gradually increased to 66 years in 2018 and 67 years in 2021 and will then be linked to the increase in life expectancy;]] [[Considering that the Government Agreement also introduced a bridging arrangement for people who are already participating in an early retirement or pre-retirement scheme or similar scheme as of 1 January 2013, due to the fact that they have not been able to prepare for the increase in the AOW age;]] [[Whereas, as of 1 January 2019, no new influx can take place in the bridging regime, while there are people who are already participating in a scheme which will expire after 1 January 2019;]] [[Whereas extending the bridging regime to 1 January 2023 costs EUR 48 million cumulatively;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the AOW bridging scheme until 1 January 2023,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Klaver, Mr Vermeij, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Pieter Heerma and Mr Dijkgraaf.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34083-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u108	If this motion is adopted, which is crucial, then my group can agree to this bill. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u109	It's recorded for eternity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u110	Mr. Chairman. This is another important day because it is a legally simple law, but it is a step that is going to affect a lot of people. A step that allows a number of people to get along easily, but also one with which others will really have trouble. It also obliges us, I believe, both in the labour market for the elderly and for those who have not been able to prepare for it. We have discussed this in detail here. Hence the support of the PvdA Group for both motions because we believe that we can alleviate the effects, at least for a group of people who have not had the time or opportunity to prepare for this increase. This does not mean that we do not have to do anything anymore, because there are also a lot of people at work who will have to work longer. On this point, too, we will discuss many times in this House the effects of the measures we are taking to get people back to work, but also to create opportunities to lead people to the AOW and retirement age in an appropriate way. Sometimes that means other work too. In this area, too, far-reaching agreements are currently being made with the social partners. We will still have to look very critically at its implementation. Three amendments have been tabled. One is about an adjustment where the pension can also be used to fill the gap. As announced earlier, this is a fairly successful measure. We almost missed fixing this for this law. I am very glad that this is happening now. We will, of course, also support this amendment. We had a good exchange on the amendment, the AMvB and the ministerial announcement. With the other amendment, I see a little more uncertainty rather than clarity over those clear five years. In my opinion, we all want, whatever political direction we are, to get into that rhythm and not take too little time for such decisions as we did now or last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u111	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying, in particular for her reaction that she does not consider a flexible AOW proposal to be transparent because it would only go for well-stocked wallets. I believe that it is very transparent, in line with the moment of early retirement. That's very clear. If you want to quit sooner, you get a lower AOW. If you want to stop later, you get a higher AOW. That is, of course, all on a voluntary basis. It's not so much about whether it's available for filled wallets or not, is it? It is about people's own choices, who give substance to their lives, who want to make their own choices and can do so in that age group. However, the last word has not yet been mentioned and we shall come back to this. As far as the law is concerned, I mentioned this good bridging arrangement in the first place, and I said that the extension is extremely essential. I welcome Mr Dijkgraaf's proposal to vote first on the motions and then on the legislative proposal because it gives clarity, because if you really have a good bridging arrangement and the motions as they are tabled together, the accelerated increase in itself is acceptable to our group. However, the question is how to create extra space for people to get compensation in other ways besides the bridging arrangement. That is why we have invented the next motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many people will experience an income gap due to the accelerated increase in the AOW age;]] [[noting that it is not now possible to introduce the AOW earlier with a flexible AOW, so that people cannot anticipate this income gap in all cases;]] [[whereas many people are volunteering and now have a maximum tax exemption of €1,500 per year for the voluntary allowance;]] [[calls on the Government to increase the tax exemption for the voluntary allowance for people born in 1951-1955 who receive an income gap through the accelerated increase in the AOW age to €2,500 per year and to cover the resulting costs from the revenues from the accelerated increase in the AOW age,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34083-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u112	It is quite clear that the increase in the AOW age is purely for financial reasons. It is about giving security to the social welfare state in the coming years when it comes to the old age provision. It is therefore a budgetary measure. There is talk of rising life expectancy, but that is the kind of argument that you can haggle on. In her reply, the Secretary of State made that link with life expectancy. It will therefore have absolutely no problem with the motion with which I conclude. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research carried out by the National Institute for Public Health and the Environment (RIVM) shows that the Dutch live on average four months less long due to the emissions of nitrogen dioxide from traffic;]] [[noting that for urban residents the effects of air pollution from traffic are even more harmful; according to the study they live 1.5 years shorter;]] [[Whereas the AOW age is linked to life expectancy;]] [[calls on the government to bring forward the AOW age for people living in cities by 1.5 years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34083-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u113	Since I do not have all the texts yet, I would ask you to suspend briefly, because especially that last motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u114	That motion seems to have got you thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u115	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. No, but I'd like to see the motions before I go into them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u116	I'll suspend for a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u117	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for their second term. Actually, I've hardly been asked any more questions. The spokespersons have, in particular, indicated how they intend to deal with this bill towards their political groups. In addition, they have tabled six motions. I'll go through it successfully.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u118	I asked the Secretary of State to refer the new rules which might result from these motions to the Chamber before the votes. I also want to know what the effects are, how many groups are involved. That sort of thing is common.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u119	I note that two motions have been tabled on the basis of which the OBR is amended. If both motions are adopted, I think the House of Representatives of the States-General has an excellent coloration of how this OBR new style could look like. I therefore do not intend to forward this colour to the Chamber before the votes, because the Chamber itself, as it were, gave shape to that colouring.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u120	"If the motions are adopted," the Secretary of State says. If she looks at the signature, she will see that adoption is certain. I have also heard the debate in the Chamber, and I repeat my request that this arrangement be sent to the Chamber in advance with the effects so that the Chamber can decide. I have argued that in my view the groups do not understand that this is hardly an improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u121	I have looked carefully at the motions and also at the signature. On the basis of the signature, I must say that the majority is not yet quite clear on all fronts. As for the cabinet, of course, I have to wait and see if any motions will be adopted at all. Then we'll see if the cabinet's running them. I have already said in my first term, so I am sure that should both motions be adopted, I will take my responsibility, I will hear the Chamber. But why don't we wait until the Chamber has voted? That seems to me to be the right course of action. Mr Ulenbelt's motion for a resolution 11 I must advise against, because the conditions for the bridging allowance would be changed by the motion. I wouldn't consider that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u122	If the Secretary of State reads the motion correctly, she will see that the conditions are not adjusted, the benefit will be. I do not accept this argument to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u123	It's just how you interpret exactly what's in the request. Because what Mr Ulenbelt has written down may not be regarded as such a condition, but has a great deal of impact on what happens next with a bridging arrangement, it is just what word you attach to it. Of course, it has to do with premises that you use for such a bridging arrangement. The cabinet wouldn't want to embrace those premises. In the motion in part No. 12 by Mr Van Weyenberg, the government is asked to make another attempt to conclude treaties with at least the eight countries he spoke of in his first term, where more than 100 AOW beneficiaries live. He asked if the cabinet would like to inform the Chamber about this for the examination of the SZW budget. We're gonna do our best on that point. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 13 by Mr Heerma, Mr Dijkgraaf, Mr Klaver, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mrs Vermeij, on the subject that we have been discussing today in particular, namely the extension of the bridging regime for people who have taken early retirement or early retirement between 1 January 2013 and 1 July 2015. Thank you, Mr Heerma. Just for the Acts: it really is 1 July 2015, so it is an omission on my part that I said 2014. I'd like to leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. The same applies to the motion in part No. 14 with the same signatories. It calls on the government to extend the bridging regime until 1 January 2023. I leave the judgment to the Chamber on this too. In the motion in part No. Mr Klein asked the government to increase the tax exemption for the voluntary allowance. I have to discourage that motion, even if it was just because it's the wrong place to bring it up. It really is a tax issue. But I think I am also speaking on behalf of my colleague in the finance department if I have to discourage the motion on the substance in any case. In response to the motion in part No. 16 by Mr Klein, I must say that I am always very much in favour of looking at policy freedoms in a decentralised way. But this motion is very enthusiastic about that. Sometimes you also come into contact in the countryside with all kinds of intricacies in your health. It will therefore not surprise the Chamber that the cabinet also rejects this motion, because it is such a good thing that our AOW is equal for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u124	I agree with the latter. However, it is a question of when you are going to let things go. My motion to part No. I would like to hold off on this because, indeed, this is something that needs to be discussed with Secretary of State Wiebes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u125	At the request of Mr Klein, I propose his motion (34083, No. 15). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-10.u126	Thank you very much to the Secretary of State for her presence and participation in the debate. Today we are going to vote on this law, the three amendments and the remaining five motions. That's what we'll do after a VAO starts at 5:15 p.m. Ice cream and reservant moods take place around the clock at 5.30 p.m.
