ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Since I had the debate on the report of the Parliamentary Working Group on ICT on behalf of the CDA, I have been given an extremely interesting subject, namely ICT. Since the beginning of March this year, it has started to live extra. See the major problems in the SVB with regard to the pgbs with an explicit ICT component. Since then, I have read with an extra eye everything that comes out in this area, which is called "ICT failure." The cost is huge. Hundreds of millions of taxpayers' money disappear into the pockets of I don't know who, but that doesn't lead to operating systems. I mention SPEER in Defence (EUR 1 billion), a new transaction system at the Tax Office (200 million) and the anti-fraud programme at the Justice Department, RADAR, which Mr Gesthuizen of the SP will also immediately ask questions. But today I'm standing here in front of the BPR, the Basic Registration Persons. For the older people among us: that is the card box at the secretary where everything and everyone was in it. There is already 70 million euros of tax money in this ICT system. René Veldwijk wrote an article about this on Computable with the undertone: that's not how it's gonna work! Who is this man? A well-known expert who solved the policy administration at the UWV. Is the BPR okay? What's going well? Share. It is open source software, i.e. free software without licenses. I have some questions about that. Firstly, how does the Minister deal with the destructive judgment, which is evident from the article, after parts of the software have been seen? Is the software indeed unnecessarily complicated? Is the analysis correct that this will lead to high maintenance costs in the future? Secondly, can the Minister promise the Chamber that no person or party can claim rights on the concepts or the generator software? Recently it has turned out that these kinds of questions lead to a wells-nothing game, but it is actually very simple. Hence my third question: does this minister simply want to reveal the source code?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. The BRP, not the BPR, is one of the major ICT projects. That is why it is very important that this is strictly controlled. You know that, because we have reported to the Chamber on this on a regular basis. A letter was sent on 6 March in which I placed the BRP along the bar of the Elias Committee. In that I have mapped out the different risks. On 23 April, I sent the most recent progress report to the Chamber. At that time there was also a debate on the House, a general discussion in which this subject was discussed in detail and in which the questions put by Mrs Keijzer were discussed in detail with the Members of Parliament present there. There was support for the approach adopted by the government. There was also support for the way of disclosure. I believe that Mrs Oosenbrug was the first to insist on making the software open source. I then linked back to the Chamber that there were reasons to choose what we call "responsive disclosure," which is less far-reaching than a complete open source approach. There was support for that in the Chamber. This is without prejudice to the fact that this summer I will evaluate the way in which it has worked out. That's what I promised the Chamber before. I will see whether that is a satisfactory way of making that public or whether we will have to do so further. The letter about that comes after the summer. I can also bring back aspects that have been mentioned in various publications on the Internet, as far as they are relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr President, I have asked a number of very clear questions, but I note that I am not getting an answer here. I'm a little up now. You are the one who has to check that the questions you have asked are also answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u4	Yes, but you have to assess it in substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u5	Yeah, I'd love to, but if I'm asking questions here that I don't get an answer to, I'm gonna be a little underwhelmed here. Does the Minister still want to give a very clear answer? Can he promise that no persons or parties can claim rights on the software or the generator software? How does he deal with the judgment contained in that article? Once again, Mr Veldwijk is not just anyone. He cleaned up the chaos at the UWV after a previous ICT failure. Can the Minister answer that? Has the programme not been built unnecessarily complicated, which means that the costs of maintenance are huge in the future? And again, does the minister just want to reveal the source code? Because of the choice to work with open source software is actually choosing the lesser variant, unnecessary. You chose Java and postgreSQL. Those are open source software systems. You can make that public. It's also the only way to get out of the well-nothing game. Each time the end of failed ICT projects by the government comes to light. Then it went wrong and then you can talk to each other about it. Do it now! It's not that complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u7	I would just like to explain it briefly. It's like lawyers. You have the law that's public. Then you're going to discuss with each other whether it's true in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you. I give the floor to the Minister to answer the new questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mr. Chairman. As far as I was concerned, it was in an attempt to be polite. At the AO to which I referred, the CDA was not present. That is possible, but all these questions were addressed in detail during that consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u10	The CDA is now asking these questions and would like an answer now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u11	In the AO we discussed the manner of making public. I then submitted and defended the choice not to make it completely open source. That choice was accepted by the Chamber. I said that we will evaluate the way in which this happened, namely through responsible disclosure for which the Chamber supported it, and I will come back with the evaluation after the summer. Reference was made to the person who wrote the column. I'm a little hesitant about that, too. He is known by the temporary committee ICT projects at the government. I have been presented with the conclusions of the chairman of this committee, Mr Elias. I will not quote them, but they mean that the committee did not consider him to be the most authoritative person. Let me put it this way. It's not up to me to repeat that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u14	Your time's up. I'm very sorry, but we're moving on to the next question. Mrs De Caluwe has another supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u15	In addition to this, because the BRP comes back every time. We have indeed discussed the subject extensively during the AA. I welcome the Minister's commitment to come forward with an evaluation. It's a long-term ICT project. There's been a lot of issues with it. As of 1 July, we have the temporary Bureau ICT review. Isn't it an idea to ask that agency to go over the route and see if we're on the right route, or if we have to do it differently? This way, once and for all, we can see whether we are on the right track.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u16	I want to be as transparent about this as possible. However, we have the source code checked regularly by KPMG. That has happened before and has been reported to the Chamber. This will happen again. I have a lot of people watching the construction of the BRP. The reports of the quality assurance commands can be found on the website of the Operation BRP. It is, of course, easy to make new commitments, but we must be careful not to stack one thing on another. My aim is entirely that of Mrs De Caluwe. It is a large, multi-annual project, so the risks are typical of a large-scale ICT project of the government. That is why we have done everything in our governance to ensure that we have good governance in terms of budget, time and objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u17	How much is it gonna cost? The Minister puts away the author of this excellent article as a kind of lightweight, which we should not take too seriously, but how many tens of millions of euros can it still cost from the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u18	There's been a budget allocation earlier. As I report to the Chamber periodically, we remain within the budget. I fully agree with Mrs Gesthuizen that this type of large project is a risk. This is also one of the reasons why we are reluctant to accept new demands for additional work for the BRP. It's like a contractor. If you ask him if he can do more work, he always says yes, but then the project becomes more expensive. We are trying to shield the modernisation of the BRP from increasing its cost.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u19	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber.
