ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the initiator, Mr Schouw, and the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Should the appointment of the King's Commissioner and the Mayor be removed from the Constitution? The initiator proposes to do so. During the discussion of this proposal, the CDA Group raised issues regarding the desirability of deconstitutionalisation, including the administrative and legal framework. I'd better drop the door in the house right away. My group is not satisfied with the answers to our questions and those of some other groups by the initiator. Unfortunately, we have found that many of our questions have not been answered in substance. That is a pity, especially since this is an important subject of the decentralised administrative establishment. During this plenary session, I will explain, on behalf of the CDA Group, on six points, how we assess this proposal. I also appeal to the initiator to come up with a thorough answer to the questions this time. 1. Constitutional anchoring and justification Our Constitution, as the Council of State also pointed out in its opinion, contains the foundations, cornerstones and ties of our constitutional system. In my group's view, the initiator is wrong to assume that there is a need to justify why this should be regulated in the Constitution in relation to what is now contained in the Constitution. In my group's view, however, it is up to the initiator to come up with serious arguments for his proposal for the deconstitutionalisation of the crown. It is not the maintenance of it in the Constitution that should be justified. The constant judgment of the Constitutionalist of 1848 and further to the amendments of 1887, 1917, 1956, 1972, and last even extra promulgated by the Faber amendment to the general constitutional revision of 1983, has been of the utmost importance that the methods of appointment of the Mayor and the Commissioner remain enshrined in the Constitution. The initiator and my group disagree on the desirability of constitutional anchoring, but my group has not been able to find any convincing reasons as to why constitutional anchoring should be abandoned. 2. Administrative relations and tasks package I am particularly concerned about the relationship with Article 125 of the Constitution. The first sentence of Article 125 (1) of the Constitution provides that the City Council and Provincial States are to head the municipality or the province respectively. It is quite conceivable that a different method of appointment could lead to tension with this Constitutional article. This is also important in view of possible future methods of appointment and their constitutional embedding. In my group's view, the way in which the mayor and the Commissioner are appointed is important in terms of administrative relations between and within the various levels of government. During the course of the discussion, it emerged that any other method of appointment could have an impact on the tasks of mayor and the Commissioner. How does the initiator see the role of mayor and Commissioner in terms of the task package? How does he see the relationship between the mayor and the city council and the aldermen respectively from the Commissioner to Provincial States and Deputy States? The initiator states that these aspects can be taken into account in an ordinary law. This can indeed be done, but does not the method of appointment deserve constitutional embedding, since it needs to be aligned with the other coherent constitutional provisions? In the event of a possible revision of the method of appointment and other aspects of the decentralised system, all relevant constitutional provisions can be considered at the same time and a harmonious "renewed" establishment of the decentralised administration can be achieved. 3. Consistency and constancy The initiator states that deconstitutionalisation is in place now that there is a social and/or political discussion about the manner in which the mayor is appointed. In this way, further scope could be given for this discussion. The members of the CDA Group argue differently: is it not true that there is room for discussion, by definition, even without de-constitutionalisation? The reference in the explanatory memorandum to the history of this bill is proof of this. Wouldn't it be better to change the system in the Constitution when any new conviction has crystallised? In addition to the appointment of the mayor, there is also a lot of talk about the further establishment of the local government. With regard to the mayor's terms of office, roughly two models prevail: the mayor elected by the people and the mayor appointed by the council. For both alternatives, at present there is no crystallised majority. Deconstitutionalisation of the method of appointment makes it easier to change the methods of appointment of the mayor and the Commissioner. Only by a simple majority in both Chambers of the States-General will it be possible to amend it. With the Council of State, however, my group believes that, whatever the way in which the appointment would take place, it should not be possible to change it at any time to the insights or incidents of the day. There must be a consistent way of appointing the mayor and the Commissioner. It is guaranteed by the Constitution. Once it has been crystallised which form is supported by a broad majority, a smooth anchoring of the Constitution is also in reason. The initiator has also indicated that he considers consistency and constancy with regard to the manner in which the mayor and the king's commissioner are appointed absolutely important. In his view, however, it is not the case that this interest would not be sufficiently safeguarded in the application of the figure of the ordinary law. At a time when there is no consensus on the way in which the mayor is appointed, and the Commissioner believes that it is the task of the CDA Group to prevent the mayor's and the Commissioner's posts from becoming a playball of temporary and variable political majorities in the two Chambers of the States General. Can the initiator again address this essential risk? 4. The Commissioner The Commissioner has a distinctly different position to the Empire than the mayor. In response to questions on this subject, the initiator replied that the ordinary legislator could take this into account. Pursuant to Article 126 of the Constitution, the Commissioner may be responsible for carrying out an instruction to be given by the Government. In that capacity, he can therefore be regarded as an official of the State. In addition, the Commissioner independently supervises the municipal administration. This supervisory role is further strengthened through sector legislation, such as the Security Regions Act. In my group's view, it is very simple for the initiator to say that the ordinary legislator can take this into account and that this lacks the special status of the Commissioner as part of the government and the powers that ensue from it. The members of the CDA Group would like to hear how the initiator appreciates the Commissioner's relationship with the Empire, also in view of the ensuing powers. Or does the initiator now see that the role and position of the Commissioner give rise to a strengthened constitutional embedding? 5. Any other method of appointment? The way in which the mayor has been appointed has recently increased considerably, not least within the party to which the members of my group belong. However, the arguments put forward by my group against deconstitutionalisation do not prevent discussion and debate on the change and renewal of the municipal system, including the way in which the mayor is appointed. However, the members of my group are convinced that this should be discussed at constitutional level in order to come up with well-thought-out plans regarding the way in which the mayor and the Commissioner are appointed. The various consequences of changes in the method of appointment should be considered and considered in relation to each other. In this way there is also a broad consensus: two thirds of the two chambers of the States-General have been able to agree with the proposal. We believe that there is a great interest and great value in this. My group also acknowledges that the discussion on the position of the mayor, including in this initiative proposal, is actually conducted exclusively in terms of the way in which the mayor is appointed. In my group's view, a discussion on the method of appointment of the mayor or of any body is not only interesting in itself. Nor should this debate be conducted in the air. The method of appointment of the mayor must be based on a view of the post, on the qualities required by the post, on the position of the post between the other posts constituting the municipal system and on the tasks and powers to which it belongs in relation to the other posts. In the view of my group, the way in which we are appointed and the discussion about this is a consequence of this debate and not an issue that precedes it. The method of appointment follows the content; not the other way around. The proposal now before us seems to be completely ignorant of that. 6. Desirability of revision at present On everything I have said about this, there is another point. My group has reservations about the desirability of changing the way in which the mayor is appointed at the moment. These concerns stem from the three major decentralisation operations now under way. They are part of the "Prime Minister" in the words of the Dutch Prime Minister - "the biggest renovation of the Netherlands since the Second World War." This operation is, of course, a factor that can certainly play a role in a discussion about a modern municipal system. However, it does not seem appropriate for my group, at the same time as this conversion, to use a system change in the main structure of the municipality and the province. In the form of demand: is a system change appropriate and should not the focus first be on the continued implementation of these new tasks in the already existing decentralised governance model? The CDA Group is also thinking about the time involved in the implementation of the dualisation of the municipal administration. We would like to receive a response from the initiator on this point. I'll come to a conclusion. As has just been pointed out, my group is certainly prepared to debate a redesign of the municipal system, including the appointment of the mayor. We are very convinced that this debate should be held at the level of the Constitution. The manner in which the mayor is appointed and all aspects associated with it in a constitutional context should be governed by the Constitution whatever the method of appointment. The method of appointment of one body, in this case the mayor, is a result of a vision of the office of mayor, also in connection with the other administrative bodies, and of a vision of the municipal administration at this time. The same applies, of course, to the way the Commissioner is appointed, also in view of the Commissioner's specific role as a rich body. We see the Constitution as a guarantee. If certain ideas for change are widely supported and crystallised, it must of course follow the constitutionalisation of that alternative, but it is not yet that far. The fact that there is a social and/or political debate on items such as this item does not, in my group's opinion, provide sufficient ground in itself to delete the constitutional provision in question. It is up to the initiator to come up with a solid justification for his statement that the method of appointment is not of constitutional order. The way in which the mayor has been appointed has been regulated and anchored in our Constitution since 1848. In addition, that provision affects other constitutional provisions, including Article 125, and ensures consistency in the method of appointment, which is also considered to be of great value by the initiator. My group therefore has serious doubts about the scope of this legislative proposal. Without prejudice to the foregoing, of course we look forward with interest to the answer of the initiator to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. I would like to say a few words to the Minister in advance. Last Friday, the Chamber received from him the note on Chapter 7 of the Constitution and the note on the appointment of the Mayor. It was promised that the Chamber would receive those notes before 1 April, so they arrived more than two weeks later than promised. Both notes are important for this plenary debate on the amendment of the Constitution. This was even a reason for the committee to ask for a postponement of the procedure. It is a pity that both notes cannot be sufficiently highlighted by me in this debate because of the late delivery. I am sure that colleagues last Friday too had the ink of their input dry for a long time. That was the case with me a few months ago. This does not alter the fact that I have taken note of those notes and that I will refer to them here and there in my speech. The first question to the Minister is how he proposes, perhaps at a later date, the exchange of views on both documents with this Chamber. On behalf of the VVD Group, I would like to congratulate Mr Schouwen as the author of this legislative proposal on his initiative. I would like to make it clear immediately that appreciation of this democratic instrument does not always automatically imply appreciation of its content. The initiative proposal was already discussed by this Chamber in October 2013 and is now coming to a full conclusion, one and a half years later. With the speed with which today's legislative proposals pass through this Chamber in mind, this is a clear example of slow food, which apparently had to be chewed for a long time. Moreover, a proposal to amend the constitution must always be carefully considered and considered. First of all, the fundamental question needs to be asked as to whether there are serious legal or social reasons justifying an amendment to the Constitution, as is stated in Article 1 of the present legislative proposal. Secondly, it is important for the VVD group to have an answer to the question of what the change is about and, thirdly, whether that change makes a clear better contribution to the social interest. Since the adoption of this proposal, the VVD Group has wanted to discuss these questions in writing with the initiator and is pleased to be able to continue this discussion in plenary now in order to provide the necessary clarity. The answer to the first question, which is answered in the affirmative in Article 1, namely whether there are serious legal or social reasons justifying an amendment to the Constitution in this case, is not a simple yes or no for my group. In our view, the social arguments put forward by the initiator are lacking, both in his proposal and in the explanatory memorandum and in the statements of reply, the convincing justification and robustness that lead to a clear understanding of the need for a Constitutional change being shared with him. His plea to change the methods of appointment after a number of failures, by, as it were, going the opposite way this time by not marking the amendment of the Constitution as a conclusion, but as the starting point of a process of renewal, is very lean on the fundamental question of constitutional change. The fact that the appointment of the mayor and the king's commissioner can then also be laid down by law does not change that. His argument that any change in the method of appointment can be decided and introduced more flexibly and quickly in this case seems modern and modern: flexible and quick anticipation of social developments. This is true of many things, but it is very doubtful whether the way in which the mayor and Commissioner of the King are appointed as part of the establishment and functioning of our decentralised administration should be subject to that political flexibility. The only conclusion could therefore be that what the proposer in Article 1 of his proposal refers to as a "ground" for constitutional change is a social political basis and he implicitly judges the current method of appointment. I do not think it would be appropriate to go into this whole process in order to conclude that the current method of appointment will soon simply continue and be enshrined in legislation outside the Constitution. Also in his reply, the complainant consistently stays away from a ruling on his preference for the method of appointment and repeatedly states that that discussion is not currently being discussed. The VVD Group only partially agrees with him. Supporters of the current method of appointment, which is a combination of a formally appointed and materially elected mayor, will not support Article 1 of the proposal. They're fine with it the way it is now. The other way around, of course, that is the case. I would like to hear a response from the author to this logical reasoning. Role, content, position, person and functioning of the mayor move along with the social developments. Personally, I can talk about this from my own experience. When I first became mayor in mid-2001, I thought I would be among the last to be appointed: dualisation and the associated directly elected mayor were, we thought, on the doorstep. Only dualization made it. After the death of the directly elected mayor, the power of the council was strengthened when the mayor was appointed and de facto a mayor was elected by the council. The King's Commissioner acts as a black and white letterbox and recruitment and selection agency. And although that is still formally the minister, the board actually decides. Last Friday's note on the methods of appointment gives the Minister a good picture of this hybrid situation. The Crown, acting on a proposal from the Minister, who in turn follows the nomination of the Board, albeit not obliged, but bound by it. Aldermen, organisation and municipal secretary are on the sidelines as advisers throughout the procedure. The Board acts as an employer, conducts operational interviews and maintains the work file of the independent mayor. The changed position of the mayor as an independent administrative body and the "revival" of first citizen and figurehead combined with his independent presidency of the council requires a lot of flexibility and flexibility. In recent years, the mayor has also become more and more a political part of the college and college policy. Without having direct control of the conclusion of a college agreement or the choice of parties and humanization, he will have to conform to it according to word and behavior and become part of day-to-day politics. It is therefore possible for a mayor to be dealt with on the basis of that college policy, which he has, as is expected, carried out in a collegial manner. When a new majority emerges after years, that loyalty easily prevents a reappointment. For the VVD-group, this deformity of the mayor's appointment needs to be replaced. However, the question is whether another method of appointment should be found within or outside the Constitution. Looking for an answer to that question, the VVD Group considers that the anchoring of the mayor's method of appointment in Article 131 Constitution and its significance cannot be separated from Article 125 Constitution governing the head of the board. Where a method of appointment other than appointment by the Crown or elected by the Board has to fit within the current constitutional framework, the choice is very limited in advance. From last Friday's note on Chapter 7 of the Constitution, my group reads that the Minister now sees no need to make changes to it. There are two options to be derived from this: a. Never, never, never, never, never, b. not now, but with another method of appointment. I would like an answer to this question. It's multiple choice so it can't be that hard. The applicant also responds, on request, in the further reply that it considers that amendment of Article 125 is not necessary. Without prejudicing a method of appointment at this stage, the VVD Group considers it of the utmost importance to place the discussion and choice in Chapter 7 of the Constitution in relation to Article 125. I'll get back to you on that. The proposal focuses on the appointment of the mayor and the king's commissioner. I have talked so far about the appointment of the mayor, but the proposal also envisages a change in the manner of appointment of the King's Commissioner. In structure, both functions are similar, but in nature and content they differ in many respects. If both methods of appointment are laid down outside the Constitution, is it possible that these differences may arise? For example, that the king's commissioner continues to be appointed and the mayor directly elected, or any other variant. How does the author intend to anchor the supervision and independence of the elected Commissioner vis-à-vis the mayors, possibly directly elected, in his province and his responsibility for security? Mrs Van Bijsterveld also mentioned this. Or does the petitioner then provide for a centralization to the person appointed!! Minister of the Interior? And how is the independence and performance of tasks as a rich body further developed in his eyes? In the light of the objections outlined by the VVD to the current method of appointment of the mayor and the problems involved in practice in our twelve provinces, can the petitioner state what is going wrong with the current method of appointment of the King's Commissioner? In other words, what is the compelling social reason for amending the Constitution as regards the appointment of the King's Commissioner? My group welcomes the consideration contained in the memorandum concerning the appointment of the King's Commissioner. In this, the Minister indicates the clear difference between the king's commissioner and the mayor. Reading this, I also ask the Minister what the arguments are for regulating this method of appointment by law. The desire for flexibility is not obvious if the current method of appointment is to be continued. The way in which the mayor is appointed is, as has already been said, part of a complex playing field of our decentralised democracy, in which, after the dualisation, as I call it, "the battle of the domains" can be quite high. The discussion about the mayor's appointment cannot be separated from that playing field and from that battle of the domains. The mayor has gradually become entangled in all local political areas, at the expense of his independence and independence. Discussion and decision-making on the appointment of the mayor should be embedded in a discussion on local democracy, on the role of council and college at the present time of cooperation between municipalities and social partners and on the place of local democracy in today's society, in which more and more calls on the self-reliance and active contribution of the inhabitants themselves and in which municipalities must and also want to cooperate. Not only has the office of mayor changed, especially the position and role of the city council and that of the college need to be reviewed. Has thirteen years of dualisation brought what was expected? Which parts of the original proposals have not been introduced or have been adapted? And what influence has that had on the quality of local government? Is it not time for an in-depth review and an adaptation of our decentralised governance structure to the future? Last Friday's notes are no more or less than a reconnaissance. Again, what does the Minister intend to do with this? What steps will he take? Or are the notes just meant for those who asked for it? The VVD would like a response from the petitioner and from the minister. For my group, it is particularly important to know what will happen in the coming period until the second reading of this proposal for a constitutional change. Just as important to know is how petitioner and minister think about the need felt by the VVD for evaluation and possible re-evaluation of the establishment of local government. The VVD does not want to sit still until March 2017 at the earliest when it comes to the second reading. Before then, we want to see the final picture of the situation following this constitutional change and we want the related debate on the re-evaluation of local government to be completed. The VVD Group would like to hear a reply from the applicant, particularly as regards whether it supports this rather compelling wish of the VVD. Finally, the VVD asks the Minister to take the lead in this review process and to come forward with proposals to deal with this in such a way that the current constitutional change fits within the broader context of the functioning of local government. We await with great interest the reaction of the petitioner and the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. On 25 March 2005, I opened my contribution to the plenary debate on the then legislative proposal for the deconstitutionalisation of the mayor's position at second reading as follows: "The debate we are having today in the First Chamber is of a more than average historical, constitutional and political significance. Today, it will be clear whether a constitutional provision, which has been included in our formal constitutional order since 1848 with so much symbolism, will become a thing of the past. Today, it will also be clear whether, as in 1848, another important step can be taken towards further constitutional reforms concerning the establishment of the municipal administration. Finally, today will show how complicated relations between the Constitution, democracy and politics can sometimes be." At that time I did not know that these words at the end of that debate proved to have a special meaning. Today, at first reading, we are again discussing whether the Constitution should decide on the way in which the mayor is appointed. A positive outcome of this debate, in the sense of simple majority acceptance, is, moreover, only a first step towards a constitutional mandate for the legislator. In the main question about the constitutional order of the mayor's appointment, I will only mention the King's Commissioner if there is a particular reason for this. It is important to look at the further constitutional context of the mayor. Firstly, it is important to realise that the appointment of the mayor has a constitutional basis, but not the resignation of the mayor. Unlike officials at the state level, such as judges and members of the High Colleges of State, in the case of the mayor, the constitutionalist apparently attaches less importance to the independence of his position. Secondly, it is important that the Council Presidency was not incorporated into the Constitution until 1983 but disappeared quite quietly in 2008, mainly in relation to the dualisation of the municipal administration introduced in 2002. On these points, it appears that the Constitution does not consider it problematic that the legislator could develop other legal standards. Finally, it is striking that the Constitution recognises the mayor's office, albeit exclusively as part of the College. The Constitution is silent on the tasks, role and profile of the mayor in this respect, but also on his position as a single head body with independent powers. That implies that at present, as regards the position of the mayor, only the mode of appointment has a constitutional basis and no relationship has been established with the content of this post. It can be concluded from these three notions that the constitutionalist did not wish to provide the mayor's office exhaustively and explicitly with a full constitutional framework. I would like to ask the initiator and the Minister whether they share these findings. There are no fixed constitutional criteria for whether a particular matter is of constitutional order or not. The subjects to be dealt with in the Constitution are too differentiated in nature to develop uniform and consistent standards. In the constitutional context, however, it is possible to look at coherence and system conformity in the event that a question is raised about the division of roles between the constitutional legislature and the legislator. In any case, there is certainly reason to take into account the meaning of the crown designation laid down in the Constitution in 1848. In the then context of the need for unity of government within the State, the choice was made for the crown appointment as a guarantee for the monitoring of the national interest. Of course, it is no longer possible to base a permanent constitutional anchoring on that basis. It is also clear from the constitutional history that the inclusion of the appointment of the King's Commissioner and of the mayor in the Constitution from the outset, beginning with Thorbecke himself, has been called into question. In short, the current constitutional regime has been controversial from the outset and never taken for granted. Where the Constitution for the Government also performs a function as an organic law, it is understandable that the establishment of a post or body at that level is accompanied by rules on the method of appointment. However, this logic and self-evidentity do not apply to decentralised posts. There the Province Law and the Municipal Law apply as organic laws, in which the position of the decentralised posts in terms of tasks, powers, responsibilities and relationships is extensively regulated. In this sense, it can be assumed that, in addition to the nature and position of these posts, the method of appointment can also be regulated by the legislator. For this reason, it seems difficult to me to maintain why, in the light of the division of tasks between the legislature and the legislature, the appointment of the mayor should now be decided by the constitutional legislator. It is not easy to see why the legislator should be limited in this respect by the legislator in order to respond meaningfully to administrative and social developments. In essence, then, the Constitution will stand in the way of a fruitful debate on this issue. A convincing indication of this view lies in the way in which Constitution and law have now regulated the appointment of the mayor. The Constitution only stipulates that the appointment of the mayor should be formally effected by Royal Decree. The detailed appointment procedure introduced into the Municipal Act since 2001 formally gives the city council a right of recommendation towards the Crown. It is clear from this division of tasks that the legislature has largely left the appointment procedure to the legislator and regulates only the final form of appointment of a Royal Decree. The legislator has completed this area by setting up a method of appointment with a large involvement of the council. In the constitutional/legislator ratio, the focus has shifted towards the legislator in such a way that balance can no longer be considered. Moreover, the existing appointment procedure is ambiguous: there is no longer a pure Crown appointment, but no formal mayor appointed by the Council. It's essentially neither meat nor fish. This observation is reinforced by the fact that in practice the government always follows the recommendations, as the law hardly allows the minister to come to another nomination. This means that since 2001 the council has actually appointed the mayor. In this context, it can be imagined that, from the point of view of constitutional and administrative coherence and system conformity, the legislator is fundamentally referring to the existing procedures for appointment, reappointment and dismissal, and is no longer hindered by a non-constitutional constitutional provision. I would like to ask the initiator and the Minister if they share these observations. At first sight, the question of whether the mayor's appointment is a constitutional order seems to be closely linked to the question of what form of appointment one actually advocates. Also in the written preparation we see attempts to create a link between the question of constitutional order and the question of the desirable position of the mayor. With the term position, I refer to the method of appointment, but also to responsibilities and powers. In this complex whole, the initiator and the minister are perfectly consistent and also extremely sensible: the proposed constitutional change does not already impose political-dogmatic views on the desired method of appointment. Approach the issue in the light of the need to integrate current developments in the mayor's office and local government in a coherent way into the system of municipal administration. The proposed destitutionalisation allows the legislator to react in a similar manner to other institutional issues at the decentralised level to changes in the way in which the decentralised directors are appointed. The alternative, often referred to as a "royal road," that is, the incorporation of another method of appointment into the Constitution through a constitutional amendment, would imply that the method of appointment is indeed of constitutional order. Such a constitutional anchoring would require a new constitutional change in the case of a different choice that has been made over time. By choosing here to construct an express constitutional mandate, the mayor's appointment retains a constitutional basis. For this reason, my group wishes to continue to distinguish between the question of whether the appointment of the mayor should remain in the Constitution and the subsequent question of a possible alternative method of appointment to be considered by the legislator. The latter question will have to be considered in that context. In other words, in this context and in the light of the political and administrative developments in local government, we will be happy to hold the debate on the position, i.e. powers, responsibilities and methods of appointment of the mayor. And, of course, the whole local administration system will have to be involved in this discussion. However, I do not see any reason to prolong the limits of the debate which have been decided in the main question of constitutional order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u5	I hear Mr Engels clearly saying that he is not in favour of the current position of the mayor. He doesn't call that meat or fish. I like that too! Doesn't that imply an appreciation of the current method of appointment? This means that he will give a ruling on the method of appointment, namely: no matter what happens after the constitutional change; please do not do this!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u6	That is why I wanted to say that, even if the current procedure were to be continued, and you have heard it correctly, that is not the variant that my group is in favour of...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u7	We'll share that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u8	Yes, in any case, the way in which this should be regulated should also be clearly established in the Municipal Law. Now we've done it in two ways. So I mean by "current manner of appointment" the way the mayor is appointed with the major influence of the city council.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u9	So a change after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u10	My group believes that if the debate is to take place, if this deconstitutionalisation becomes a fact, then we do not know yet that the current situation and method of appointment is certainly not to be preferred. I would have liked to ask the initiator and the Minister to confirm that they will continue to follow the course set out here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u11	I understood from Mr Engels' contribution that he finds the current way of naming a very strange one. Constitutionally it is the Crown who appoints, but in fact the city council is about it. I understand he thinks that's a weird situation that needs to end. I understand from his response to the interruption of my colleague, Mr Huijbregts-Schiedon, that his group is not in favour of the current method of appointment, even if it is immediately de-consolidated. So Mr. Engels isn't in favour of the council having a major role in the appointment of the mayor? I would like clarity on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u12	No, I am not in favour of us making any changes to the current procedure after the constitutionalisation, which did not make a clear choice by whom the mayor is ultimately appointed. At the moment, this is a diffuse situation in which the Crown plays a role...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u13	But you can imagine that this will be the council later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u14	I will speak about this in a moment, but I would like to answer you now that I can imagine. I can imagine a lot of things. There are a lot of modalities conceivable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u15	That's my boy. For the sake of clarity, you can imagine that there could be a large role, perhaps even a determining role for the city council in the appointment of the mayor in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u16	Certainly, my point was actually in response to my honourable colleague that the situation as it is now regulated does not express in a very clear way that there is a preference for the city council to play a preponderant role in it. So my point is actually: if you wanted to do that, it would be better for state law to do it very well and not in the weird way we have done it now. All that is still hypothetical, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u17	I would just like to draw Mr Engels' attention to some inconsistencies in his speech. He says he doesn't express preferences, that those preferences aren't on the agenda. By expressing his appreciation of the current system, he is, of course, already giving a preference to the fact that, when the constitutional change is completed, there will have to be a change in the method of appointment and that this variant is not attractive to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u18	There has been a misunderstanding here, entirely because of my own actions. I said two things. My group does not need to involve all kinds of other issues in today's debate on this deconstitutionalisation, based solely on whether there is a constitutional order or not. I do not need to have a debate over the next period, if this deconstitutionalisation had taken place. I also agree with you that this should be not just about the method of appointment but about the whole. And there's gonna be more later. I have already given this a hint of the veil, namely that we do not find the current procedure the most attractive. If I speak about the mayor's note...Sorry, if I speak about the Minister's note, yes, Maastricht is free to speak, I will raise even more tips of the veil and anyone can guess about it. We must, however, distinguish at what point in time we want to have this discussion. I'm not gonna pretend there's no opinion on that. Let that be clear. I come to another point, namely that I want to appeal to history, but in a different way from what has been done before. I come back to the period in which PvdA Minister De Vries once defended the legislative proposal at first reading at the beginning of this century in order to deconstitutionalise the way the mayor was appointed. That was Bill 27551, for those who want to read it. That was a very sovereign defense, which pleased me very much. Let me give you a small example. In the reply to document No. 56a mainly directed the Minister towards the CDA Group, which was not entirely coincidentally expressing in clear terms that the method of designation of the Mayor and the CdK is not of such importance that it should remain laid down in the Constitution. He added at the time that the answer to the question of whether the method of appointment of the mayor of constitutional order is only of prealignable importance to the question of a possible subsequent legal form of appointment. It is tempting to point out all kinds of party political motives in the subsequent voting behaviour of the later MP De Vries and in the input and voting behaviour of the then Senate Group, but I am not going to do that. With my group, I want to look ahead today in particular. This future lies partly in the cabinet notes we received on Friday. The first is the note with a reconnaissance of the mayor's appointment and position. This was promised to the Lower House, but was also sent to the Upper Chamber at our request. I don't need to go into the timing of this note. By the way, it's already been done by others. The content of the story also gives little reason for my group to make many comments today. The note is, to begin with, descriptive in nature and actually does not contain any guiding conclusions. The note only describes the theoretical modalities of a different method of appointment of the mayor. I haven't been able to find out a lot of news in that, and maybe it's a good thing. It is of course interesting to take note of these descriptions. The note will undoubtedly play a useful role in the next cabinet period, but for today's debate my group does not see any role for this analysis. That is not to say, I would like to return to the previous interruptions that within my group there would be no views on the current position of the mayor. In our opinion, this position has been unbalanced for some time. The tasks and powers have increased considerably in complexity and scope, while the legal situation has weakened since 2001. In this light, the current method of appointment is ambiguous because of the forced double role of city council and government. In addition, the mayor actually appointed by the Council as a monist figure in the dualist governance model is not system-compliant. Moreover, the procedures for reappointment and dismissal are increasingly politicised in a non-transparent manner. The independence with regard to the city council, and therefore the independent role in local government and towards society, has not increased with all this. I say it very carefully. For this reason, the D66 Group believes that there is certainly reason for the legislator to change the current appointment procedure after a de-constitutionalisation, which was finally achieved at second reading. There are convincing objective arguments for this, as can be found in the report of the State Commission or in the evaluation of chapter 7 by the universities of Nijmegen and Groningen. However, there are also different party political preferences, such as the return to a pure crown designation, the designation by the city council or a directly elected mayor. Almost everyone here will easily be able to look for the parties to those positions. The D66 Group is known to advocate the directly elected mayor. There are, moreover, a number of modalities for the implementation of this figure, which should certainly be discussed. But once again, the debate on this must not take place today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u19	I hear Mr Engels say that he wants to clearly separate the debate on deconstitutionalisation from the substantive discussion on a possible change in the way the mayor is appointed. Let me get this straight. And, if that is correct, is he in favour, as advocated by the VVD, of the fact that the discussion is crystallising about any other method of appointment before a proposal is dealt with or accepted at second reading? Or does he think that this should take place only after the adoption of this proposal at second reading, in order to keep these two things properly separate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u20	I just heard that proposal from the VVD. I will look into that and discuss in my group what is the best time to have that discussion. I would like to add, however, that my speech also shows that this debate will, of course, have to be conducted in full and not isolated. My point is that it is only when you have a level playing field that you can properly conduct the discussion in an integral way that you will not be hindered by constitutional provisions that regulate only part of these aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u21	I fully understand that Mr Engels would like to give an answer in consultation with his group. Does this mean that we will hear that answer in the debate today?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u22	Let me put it this way: I learned from the CDA that if you say that you are in consultation with your group, including the question of whether you will return to that on the same day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u23	That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u24	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u25	Not for me, because I cannot imagine us closing the books after tomorrow, turning the buttons off, not thinking about it for the next 18 months and not thinking about it again until we have the proposal in front of us at second reading. So everybody shut up, in the closet with it, and no room to talk about any manner of appointment. Is that how you imagined it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u26	I do not yet have a picture of our response to your proposal. First of all, I want to hear what the initiator and the minister think about this. You asked about the direction. Well, I'm always happy when the minister takes the lead. So that could be a good clue. However, you are too early to ask me what my group's final position will be. However, if you have listened carefully to my speech, you will have noticed that my group does not wish to have this discussion isolated until the end. That's a very small clue. However, you are now concerned with timing. I would like to reflect on that, as is customary in this house. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say a few words about the cabinet note on the modernisation of Chapter 7 of the Constitution. We also received them on 17 April. This note deals with the possibility of modernising Chapter 7 in relation to the decentralised administration. I have to say something about this because that note was drawn up on the occasion of a motion of mine being held on a more up-to-date and guiding constitutional interpretation of the decentralised administration. There's that element again. The note describes the content, background, coherence and practical significance of the various provisions of Chapter 7. The piece results in a number of ascending conclusions. In the light of the government's very cautious approach to changes to the Constitution, the cabinet states that there is insufficient constitutional maturity and need to do so. Although my group continues to fundamentally disagree with the cabinet on how to deal with the Constitution, and is disappointed that the cabinet does not see an ambition to modernise this chapter, we see no reason to include this note in today's debate on the deconstitutionalisation of the mayor's manner of appointment. My group would think that we should discuss this separately in this Chamber, possibly in relation to the VVD's proposal. Apart from that, it is not unthinkable that this deconstitutionalisation should take place in the next cabinet period at second reading. Any subsequent change in the manner of appointment of the mayor by the legislature may then have consequences for his position in the municipal administration. This would allow all kinds of provisions of the Constitution to be affected, as the Minister has clearly seen. This concerns, for example, Articles 124 (1) on local autonomy, 125 (1) on the head of the Board, which has already been mentioned several times; indeed, this is an appropriate point of reference and 129 (4) on the term of office of the City Council. And then I forget to mention Article 125 (2) on collegial governance. In other words, there are still many interesting discussions ahead, on this subject alone. This brings me to the end of my first term. I await the reactions of the initiator and the Minister with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u27	Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS will not give an historical overview of what has already been said and written in parliamentary history on the subject at hand in this debate. The author of the proposal for a law, Mr Schouw, has done so, the Council of State has done so and the debate in the House of Representatives has done so. This applies in particular to the question of whether or not the method of appointment of the mayor and the King's Commissioner is part of the Constitution. The debate on our parliamentary system and everything that results from it has been going on for more than 167 years without any real and substantial changes being made. Everyone can see in the current era that there is a major crisis between politics and citizens and that an ever wider gap has arisen between voters and elected representatives. In the view of 50PLUS, the Dutch administration system no longer meets the requirements of this modern time. We give high regard to our patriotic democracy, but we need negative answers to questions such as: do you choose your own government just now it turns out that with this VVD-PvdA cabinet very topically you choose your own head of state, you choose your own prime minister, you choose the king's commissioner and you choose your own mayor? Many foreigners are surprised at the results of these questions, which are often accompanied by praise for our democracy. 50PLUS has great appreciation for the petitioner, who, exactly three years ago, referred this proposal to the House of Representatives on 20 April 2012, and for the way in which he defended it. We also understand the fact that he is carefully maneuvering and does not want to answer the question of where his preference lies when it comes to allowing another system for selecting the mayor, as Mr Plasterk's memorandum of 17 April also states. The events in this First Chamber in 2005 have left their deep traces. But in addition to this understanding for the author, 50PLUS also needs to clarify its own view. 50PLUS is an innovative party that wants to give the voters more influence. A commissioner and mayor appointed by the Crown no longer fit in. Politics wants to retain influence directly or indirectly and limit the influence of the electorate. Some parties think it would be a big step if the mayor were elected by the city council. In Europe, we are far behind in democratic procedures. The same applies to the role of the King's Commissioner. In practice, a simple solution to allow a deputy to perform this function is unspeakable. Moreover, this feature is not in fact a full-time job. The result is that in practice the King's Commissioner sometimes had a large number of side jobs, which meant that you had to ask yourself whether the actual profession was not an obstacle to that. I would like to further underpin this with quotes from three prominent Commissioners, from three different parties, after their term of office. Former Minister Margreet de Boer: "It's one of the quietest jobs I've ever had." Former Deputy Prime Minister Hans Wiegel: "It is not the most incriminating job, I estimate half of what I was used to in The Hague." Former Prime Minister Dries van Agt: "It won't fill your days." Both for practical and above all for reasons of principle, we want to get rid of the mayor and commissioner of the King. In order to make this possible, the method of selection should not be included in the Constitution. But caution can also work too slow. I refer to the passage that the author wrote on page 3 of the note following the Second Chamber report, dated 28 March 2013. It states, in itself, that we in our country, unlike in virtually other European countries, have no experience of a method of appointment other than crown appointment. But the conclusion that it can therefore be useful, through limited-scale experiments, to gain some experience before a major change in the system is decided on goes too far. Does the author still have this view two years ago? Does he agree with us that this could mean a further and great delay in the renewal of the system? Are there not sufficient experience in other European countries? The cabinet states in the above note that a change in the manner of appointment will have an impact on the position of the mayor, the aldermen and the council and that these may have profound consequences. This is true in itself, but we believe that democratisation and the increased influence of the electorate should be at the heart of the matter, after which the rest should be properly dealt with. Finally. We have read with approval that the petitioner strongly rejects a suggestion that this bill should be suspended. You're right. It is going to take many years before voters are able to gain greater influence. 50PLUS wants that as soon as possible. That is the goal we are pursuing, that is our ideal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u28	Mr. Chairman. It is a special experience for me to be able to focus my last speech in this Chamber on such an important subject. A proposal to amend the Constitution requires, as has already been said, a special consideration of the nature of the case. There are questions of a constitutional nature and, of course, questions about the scope and consequences of any constitutional change. First, a number of considerations and questions concerning the constitutional aspects. Any proposal to amend the Constitution must ask whether the proposal meets the criteria laid down in any constitutional amendment. In political practice, it is assumed that there must be an urgent legal or social need for this. This has recently been expressly confirmed by Minister Plasterk in this Chamber. Mr Engels had tabled a broad-based motion on the need to establish in the Constitution that the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law. At first, the Minister felt that this proposal did not meet the aforementioned criterion for constitutional change, but was ultimately convinced. What is the urgent legal or social need for the present proposal? The author referred in the written preparation to the preamble to the legislative proposal. It states, as with any proposal of law, "that there is a basis for considering a proposal for change in the Constitution." And, says the initiator, there it is. "No more and no less." He does not need additional formal criteria. It seems to us that the demand for an urgent legal or social need is not so much a formal but a substantive criterion. What does the Minister think of the present proposal on the basis of this criterion which the government has consistently applied? The Constitution now provides for the appointment of the King's Commissioner and the Mayor by Royal Decree. The applicant proposes to remove this form of appointment from the Constitution and to regulate it by ordinary law in future. He also proposed no amendment to constitutional provisions. It should therefore be noted that he does not include Article 125, which governs the principality of provincial states and the city council, in his draft law. However, there are ways in which these officials can be appointed, with the head of the board being a sta-in-the-way. Why does he want to rule it out? How does that relate to his view that appointment should be regulated by law if he does not pave the way for certain types of appointment? The applicant has so far refused to comment on the way in which he has appointed himself. In his opinion, it would only be easier to regulate the manner in which the mayor and the commissioner were appointed. In his view, this can remain the same in a legislation as it is now, but it can also be changed. By doing so, the petitioner seeks to gain two groups with completely different insights about the way in which the bill is appointed: on the one hand, those who think that they can further strengthen the position of the city council at the time of its appointment, and on the other hand, those who advocate a completely different system of appointment. That is an interesting alliance, which together seems to want to create the conditions to fight each other later. Whether that is a good basis for a constitutional change may be questioned. Wouldn't it have been better, as we have argued from the outset, to hold an in-depth debate before presenting a proposal to amend the Constitution? The author has so far argued that all of this can be discussed after the adoption of his draft law, but in the spirit of the phrase 'begins honour', it seems less happy with a constitutional amendment. Can the author explain again why he found a prior discussion so objectionable? The petitioner considers that the way the mayor is appointed does not belong in the Constitution. There are differences of opinion on this, and in any case the constitutionalist has consistently rejected this position so far. In his speech, Mr Engels stated that he knew someone who had changed his mind, namely the undersigned. I am glad to be able to say something about this on the almost last day of my membership of this Chamber. At the time, I myself tabled a legislative proposal for de-constitutionalisation, in accordance with a coalition agreement. I thought it was a good proposal. I had a need to lay down in the law that the council would ultimately be the body that decides who will be the mayor. I would never have thought that, while the ink of deconstitutionalisation was not yet dry, a bill would come forward that said that the whole system of appointment that had just been put in place would be thrown overboard. I don't even care about the one system. I am concerned that it appears that a new coalition can suddenly set up the whole system in its own way. If you're looking at what that means for the municipal order, it's at least very difficult for me. For example, in the bill at the time, all mayors were fired within two years. What conditions in the country that would lead to can be described with no pen. That's why I thought, "I didn't do that right." I haven't forgotten that, and I'm going to make it so clear. I therefore voted against the deconstitutionalisation in the second round for the reason I have just given and not for party political reasons, as Mr Engels has just assumed, because my group in the House of Representatives was predominantly in favour; only four people voted against it. I was of the opinion that it was not a responsible system if a change of government system could be so simple as to change it, whereas that change is so fundamental that you ask: have we considered it well and thought it through?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u29	I would like to thank Mr De Vries for his detailed explanation. I note that he seems to think it is important that the legislator, when he comes into a position to settle something on the basis of a constitutional mandate, should do very well and should not do any bullshit. I agree with him. Do I understand correctly that Mr De Vries actually has more confidence in the wisdom of the constitutionalist than the legislator? That would be strange on a number of parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u30	As Mr Engels knows, the personal composition of the constitutionalist is the same as that of the legislator; only the majorities are different. There is no reason to suppose that the mind of one will work differently than the mind of the other. However, I do think, and it turned out at that time, that if you want to make system changes, it is wise to think carefully about whether you want to. I'll come back to this later. The applicant already argues in the first explanatory statement that Thorbecke opposed constitutional rules and did not find the subject of constitutional order. That is, of course, a reason to see for yourself what Thorbecke has said. Thorbecke read in a ministerial draft for that constitutional amendment of, I believe, 1848, that it was the intention of the authors, without the cooperation of the council, or of the bourgeoisie, to appoint a mayor by the King. So Thorbecke thought: without the cooperation of the Council or without the cooperation of the bourgeoisie, and if we now put that into the Constitution, there is not enough room to think about different modalities in our country. The city law had yet to be established and there was little certainty about "the formation" of the mayor's office, as Thorbecke called it. In those circumstances, Thorbecke argued that the hands of the legislator should not be tied. In a review in the collection Mayor, which will be discussed more often in my speech, Schouw rightly notes that Thorbecke "would have liked to leave room for municipal councils to exert some influence on the mayor's choice." Thorbecke could therefore have been very pleased with the role played by municipal councils in this respect since 2002. By the way, it is interesting to check the history of discussions about the mayor, especially if they involve preferences for deconstitutionalisation. But actually, apples are often compared to pears. I have already said that Thorbecke was confronted in his time with at least three systems which he also mentions in his contribution to the revision of the Constitution. At that time, there was no beginning of crystallisation. At the moment, of course, we know quite well what a minister is doing. For that the collection may be a model, but if you compare the views of that time, which were already time-bound at the time, with those of all other years and you don't see that the position of the city council changes substantially, then of course you have a strange discussion. In the collection of Mayors, Professor Engels states that "in practice, there is actually a mayor elected by the council." He just repeated this here. Professor Koole............................................................................................................................................................. It would be no trouble to add a long list of observations, including those of the Minister in his note. The city council now actually decides who the mayor is. It can be said that the city council determines it, but it is still in the Constitution. Scraps point to that, too. He states in the collection of Mayors, which is also rich, and all this recommendation is that the crown appointment is still "fier' standing. That is also the thread of his speech. So he doesn't like that, but it's mainly a matter of perception. By whom are ministers appointed and dismissed in our country? In the time of Thorbecke, of course, that was different than at the moment. Under state law customary law, the choice of ministers and secretaries of state is not left to the Crown, but he appoints and dismisses them. Parliament decides, although you do not read this directly from the Constitution. That is why some of us occasionally practice state law. That wouldn't be difficult if the Constitution could be read for no reason. Today's initiator has recently underlined this development of the ministerial appointments by helping to end even the very limited interference of the King with the cabinet formation. The ministers were, of course, simply appointed by the Crown in the past, but after discussions and conflicts with the Chamber, this has slowly, but surely, not always with direct certainty, become the domain of parliament. I would add that it is too early for an evaluation. The Constitution does not always state what appears to be in it. As Thorbecke said, "It goes with the Constitution as with the Gospel. The Constitution leaves more freedom than he, who only wants to find his dogma in the Constitution, imagines." Since the amendments to the Municipal Law in 2002, the government has therefore, without exception, appointed the mayor candidate recommended by a city council. There too, the interference of the Crown has become a formality. The appointment of the mayor is therefore just as proud in the Constitution as the appointment and resignation of ministers and secretaries of state, and today is of no more than ornamental significance. However, it is sometimes pointed out that the government could theoretically deviate from a recommendation by a city council. As I said, this has not happened in the past 13 years. Moreover, the question arises as to whether this theoretical possibility would not exist with, for example, a directly elected mayor by the population or a formally elected mayor by the city council. There are, of course, few examples of this, but Mr De Graaf's proposal at the time also provided for a role for the Crown: in particular cases, the mayor elected by the people could be suspended or dismissed. There is therefore no objection in principle. Does the Minister and the initiator agree? I mentioned the discussion on whether the position of the mayor and the King's Commissioner should be included in the Constitution. The constitutionalist has always felt that this is desirable, which says something about the notion that this is perhaps of constitutional order and has always been regarded as constitutional order. It's perfectly understandable why the constitutionalist thought so. After all, the appointment of the mayor is crucial for the organisation and operation of the entire municipal administration. The Dutch Society of Mayors therefore points out in a recent publication that the method of appointment of the mayor is much more complex than the question "choose or appoint?'. It is about the wider perspective of the municipal administration. The note recently sent to us by the Minister has the same meaning. Indeed, the way in which the mayor is appointed affects not only his position, but also that of the elected city council, the aldermen and the administration. There's more. In the repeal of the bill on the directly elected mayor, the Council of State noted that it gave a different meaning to our democracy. The question therefore arises as to whether a method of appointment which has such an impact on the functioning of the municipal system and can even introduce another form of democracy should not be enshrined in the Constitution. The author could also have proposed the replacement of the crown appointment and instead argued that the Constitution should provide that the mayor and the Commissioner should be elected directly by the people or by the city council or by the provincial states.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u31	Mr De Vries clearly attaches great importance to the constitutional guarantee of the mayor's appointment in the context of the whole establishment and operation of the local administration. Does he not think that it is a problem that the constitutionalist should put the emphasis solely on this method of appointment and that a number of other aspects to which the society has rightly referred are not or hardly addressed in the Constitution? At least that doesn't make a really balanced impression on me. What makes this appointment so preponderant in relation to perhaps even more important aspects of the mayor's position?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u32	That is a very good question and it should certainly be considered, but I note that it has not been done in the context of this legislative proposal. I have been very diligent in calling for a good discussion and involving several points of view in the discussion, but they have not come to the table. I also have a second answer to your question. You asked why the full attention is focused on the method of appointment. This is because some people do not understand that the board actually chooses if there is a factual finding that a recommendation from the board is always followed. So there should be no more discussion about this than whether a minister is selected by the Crown or by political parties in parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u33	Would it then be possible, in theory, for the legislator to adapt the current procedure in such a way that a greater role for the population, not for the council, would be constructed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u34	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u35	And that greater role is ended with a formal detachment by a Royal Decree?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u36	Oh, yeah. That's what I suggested. Referenda were organized at the time. They were removed from the list within a few years, but that was, of course, an attempt to involve the population in the selection. This was also warmly supported at the time by members of D66. Apparently some of those experiments didn't go quite well, although I thought some went very well. It has not been chosen to develop, refine or change that instrument; it has been abolished. There are, of course, other ways of involving citizens in this. That's what my party's very much for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u37	Mr Engels, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u38	Yeah, one more time. Mr De Vries has just said that the debate he would like is not actually being held in this debate. He himself mentioned the importance of the method of appointment in the Constitution. If the initiator does not make any comments on this, I wonder why Mr De Vries would think that the fact that the constitutionalist did not wish to take that crown designation out of the Constitution so far is so important in relation to many other important aspects of the mayor's position. Does Mr De Vries think this is balanced or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u39	I think I have just explained this on the basis of a personal experience. I found it unheard of that, after a change in the system which I regard as fundamental, it was possible to change the legislation so that the municipal system turned upside down. That is therefore a guarantee against hasty action, but if the proposer had come up with a proposal to amend the Constitution with the aim of electing the mayor directly or by the Council, we could have had a substantive discussion on this. He is, however, avoiding that discussion. I do not really understand why the Minister also avoided that discussion. His last note is a substantive note. I would also like to congratulate you on that, but as the Minister himself points out, that note is not really aimed at anything, just at information. Of course, we are not just here for information. We are also looking at what we do when we open or unlock certain roads. In fact, I am now going to follow up my answer to Mr Engels' question. A change may, of course, be considered necessary. Proposals to this end will always have to be carefully considered and discussed, but a certain degree of stability is a prerequisite for the proper functioning of the system. You can't just turn the municipal order upside down. Whatever direction one chooses, I am in favour of an evolution of the municipal order and not a revolution; perhaps I can add that personally. This would only cause misery for the municipalities, which are already overburdened at the moment. This or that variant.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u40	When does that evolution end? And is it not necessary to adapt the structure to the result of that evolution?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u41	Yeah, I think so, but evolution never ends, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u42	The world is always on the move. So you need to take moments to update the case a little bit. This means that at some point things must also be enshrined in legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u43	Yes, but then I would prefer to first define what we should regulate in the law and what we are going to amend the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u44	So you support the call of the VVD to take up that discussion? For example, when assessing dualisation, we can take a good look at this evolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u45	That's what I'm always for. I myself would have liked to go much deeper into the questions when dealing with this bill: where do we stand and what do we really want? You can also read that in the pieces. But, as you yourself said, we have not received a reply. I'm afraid we're not gonna get that either. Through the chairman, I am looking at the author. It is the legislator's freedom to change his mind. This or that variant of a method of appointment can therefore come up with any cabinet formation, if it goes through a legal arrangement. The initiator rightly pointed out that in a cabinet formation positions of one party are exchanged against those of another. That's right. It almost went in a tone of "don't you know that, Mr De Vries?" It is well known indeed. That's why my concern is there. Mrs Huijbrechts and many others call for a debate on what we really want. All those analyses we read about the mayor are not unambiguous. What conclusion should we come to in order to obtain a stable and stable municipal order? That is not exactly what this bill is about, or really not what it is about. Would it not therefore be in the interests of the functioning of our public administration that the method of appointment is enshrined in the Constitution? Then everyone will know what we're up to for a long time. A guarantee of the stability of a given system does not seem unreasonable in the case of essential institutions. I would like a response from the petitioner and from the Minister. When considering simplifying changes to the appointment, it should be considered whether the functioning of the current system gives rise to this. The Dutch Society of Mayors is of the opinion, I quote "that the current method of appointment - including procedures for reappointment and dismissal - is workable. The mayor's selection and assessment is based on his qualities. The nature of the mayor's position requires a professional director who has the right competences and knows how to use them in his daily activities. It is therefore better to make the selection of the mayor in a quality-based application procedure than in a public candidacy procedure where it is a matter of popularity." So much for the Society; the current procedure is workable. I would like to point out that there are also complaints about the procedure, particularly in the case of reappointment. The procedure is not clear. Does the Minister know these complaints and is he prepared to take a closer look at them? According to a recent study by the University of Tilburg, the mayors themselves find their position as the leader above the parties, also in 2013 the most important power of the mayor's office. This was a direct investigation; this did not go through the Society. The fact that the mayor is not seen as a politician, I am sorry to say, plays a major role. Sometimes the people give the mayor more power than he has. The Elzinga State Commission spoke in this connection of a "bad status incongruence." This makes it easier for the mayor to do his beneficial work in different roles and in different places on the municipal board. Former Minister Ter Horst and Mr Kwakkelstein raise the question of whether we should give the mayor more power or more authority in the collection of Mayors. They opt for the latter and believe that "this can only be achieved by stopping the politicisation of the office and by investing heavily in the professionalisation of the mayor's office." A mayor is of all citizens, but can he still be if he is directly elected by a majority of the population and has had to defeat counter-candidates? Will his profiling as a politician not affect the authority that the current official has?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u46	I cannot help debating the political signature with Mr De Vries. Now there's an independent mayor. I have said that the mayor is also part of the college, but Mr De Vries knows that better than I do. The college is indeed politically profiled. The mayor must promote and co-form the political college policy. Does Mr De Vries think that is desirable or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u47	I don't know if the mayor is doing much to promote policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u48	Oh, yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u49	I'm trying to answer your question. In general, the aldermen do so themselves. If anything is said on behalf of the college, the mayor will undoubtedly say that the college thinks something of something. That is not political profiling for the people. The residents see him as someone trying to hold things together, as is often said. He has to make sure that the city council functions properly by sitting in front of the council. Although it is deinstitutionalized, this is fortunately still in the municipal law. At the same time, the mayor is also the chairman of the college to exercise his beneficial influence there. In this sense, he is seen as a wise person who tries to ensure that the municipality can function properly as a unit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u50	I hope this is always the case, but the fact remains that the mayor is a member of the college policy; he is part of the college. College policy is political policy, so he has a political profile. That does not always have to be his own political profiling, but he is indeed politically profiled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u51	It will not always be his own political profiling. Sometimes a mayor is not even a member of a party represented on the board. Mrs Ter Horst called for a halt to politicisation. I came to the conclusion that this might be problematic if the mayor himself had to campaign with a programme. What seems to me to be the most important thing is that the people also consider the mayor remarkably positive. No political director can measure up with him in that respect. Integrity, independence and above the parties are the core values mentioned in investigations. If you take together the views of the mayors and the citizens about the mayor's office, there is no urgent need to change the system. What do the initiator and the minister think about this? The question remains whether the proposer wants to change and control the system of appointment. This has already been discussed in the case of interruptions. He has so far consistently refused to admit colour on this issue. But if he didn't want to change the system himself, then there are always others who advocate a fundamental change. The party to which the petitioner belongs has been working for many years to introduce a directly elected mayor. Mr Engels reminded us of this. Other parties, including my own party, are also in favour of this. The author Schouw reminds us in the collection Burgemeester that in 1966 D66 in the famous "Appel to every worried Dutchman," called for a mayor, who would be directly elected either by the city council or by the citizens. I remember that apple, of course. It's a blessing of my age that I can oversee that time span. I don't know when the cover came, but now D66 chooses the directly elected mayor. The first result, the mayor elected by the council, is recorded, at least the actual determination of the mayor by the council. Of course, that does not relate to the second wish of the apple, namely the directly elected mayor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u52	I have a feeling you're looking for an explanation as to why that second element of the apple would have been abandoned by D66 by now. I'd like to serve you. This has to do with the system change in 2002, the dualisation of the municipal administration. On constitutional grounds of system conformity, the monist figure of a mayor elected by the council does not, of course, fit in with that in theory. After all, the council will have such an influence on the mayor that you will have a very strange situation in the relationship between college and council. That is a very understandable explanation of why the directly elected mayor is currently preferred. To this end, of course, we are inspired by the words in the report of the State Commission, the Elzinga Committee, that both the crown nomination and the directly elected mayor are in line with the dualist model, unlike the mayor elected by the Council. You can find what you want politically, but that's the explanation behind this choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u53	Right. In itself it is interesting to see that one first bets on a mayor elected by the council...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u54	No, that's not right. The bet was to at least distance itself from the figure of crown appointment, the pure crown designation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u55	None of that's in that apple.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u56	No, but it doesn't say what you just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u57	Yeah, that's what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u58	No, it says that there would be a clear choice for the mayor elected by the council.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u59	No, no. I said quite correctly that the appeal called for a mayor to be elected either by the city council or directly by the citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u60	You just pretended to have only one variant in it. Then we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u61	May I point out that interruptions also go through the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u62	I didn't want to make a mistake about it. I would just like to point out that the wording at the time did not make it clear that it would then have to be replaced by something else, quite the contrary. I don't think that was the intention either. In our country, the democratically elected city council is at the head of the municipality. It cannot be more democratic, it must not be less democratic. Everyone counts in the exercise of public power, no one is excluded. So, as citizens, we have to do it with each other. In the municipality it is better regulated than at national level. Sometimes it's difficult, but that's why it's incredibly valuable. The council belongs to all citizens in the municipality and must remain in charge of the administration of the municipality. Unlike other countries, we do not have a political system whereby the electorate gives direct power to the executive. The elected representative of the people is central. I certainly do not want to close my eyes to the fact that representative democracy is under pressure in many countries and that the executive power in many countries prevails. However, my group does not want to affect the position of the elected municipal council as head of the municipality, including the mayor's choice. This seems to us to be a fundamental starting point. What is the applicant's position on the head of the city council, including the mayor's choice? The present bill leaves the head of the Council in the Constitution. In any case, that makes the introduction of what the Minister calls Presidential Mayor impossible. At the same time, it should be noted that the Balkenende cabinet at the time considered the introduction of a "light presidential" mayor compatible with the Constitution. It is possible to discuss this. Apart from that, however, there is no doubt that the introduction of a "light presidential" mayor is also material to the detriment of the head of the council. The council remains head of the municipality, but the power acquired in a long series of years to elect the mayor and thus his chairman is taken away from him. In addition, two bodies are created at the top of the municipal administration, which can stand for a direct election by the same bourgeoisie. But who's the boss of the city anyway? The representative of the people, but at the same time the directly elected mayor? I would like to hear the views of the initiator and the Minister on this. In this context, the question is also raised whether there will be two captains on one ship. There are even people who say: yes, but there are also two bridges on a ship. However, the current system is built with a clear administration of the municipality in mind. I believe it would be extremely difficult to place parts of the municipal administration outside. There is also the question of the society whether it does not cause problems if two organs are in the top of the municipal system. The Council's political wishes may conflict with the political agenda of the directly elected mayor. Does that serve the unity of the city council? To whom should the mayor be accountable, to the council or to his constituents? These are problems for which we do not yet have a solution, but I would like Mr Schouw to try to think about this issue and at least indicate that he sees this problem. As my contribution to this debate shows, this bill raises many questions for my group. We thank the initiator who made this discussion possible and await his reply and that of the Minister with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u63	Mr. Chairman. It is a pleasure for me to be able to express my contribution today on behalf of the Party for Animals. Today, we are discussing an initiative legislative proposal to remove the method of appointment of the King's Commissioner and the Mayor from the Constitution. First of all, my compliments to the initiator. After all, it is never easy and in any case time-consuming to steer an initiative proposal through the parliament. This is all the more true in the case of an amendment to the Constitution. In essence, the proposal before us is extremely simple. The initiator sees no convincing reasons for the way in which these appointments are made in the Constitution. It is preferable simply to leave this to the legislator who can formulate his own legislation. Because the subject of these appointments has a long history, a lot of time and energy was invested in the history of the preparatory research. Nor could the Council of State resist this temptation. However, as interesting as parliamentary history on this point may be, it does not affect the simplicity of the initiative legislative proposal. The discussion can therefore in fact be very simple. Although a good understanding of history is important to understand the present, I would like to confine myself today and only address the current situation. In practice, there has been a tension between what is regulated in Article 131 of the current Constitution, namely the appointment by the Crown, and the actual settlement of these issues in the Municipal Law and the Province Act. The tasks of at least mayors have only increased as a result of the current decentralisation trends, and as a result the need for more democratic legitimacy has grown. The Constitution is a concise document and, above all, should remain so. The Constitution, originally established in 1848 and preserved in the National Archive, should regulate the main lines of our state system, but also the main lines. In any case, a concise Constitution offers all kinds of constitutional scholars extensive content for discussion and exegesis, and thus a well invested sandwich. In this sense, this small caste of specialised lawyers can be regarded as the high priests of the "Oracle of The Hague." Appointments of mayors and Commissioners of the King are politically charged. We have seen this in the debate so far. The current appointment procedures requiring confidentiality often show significant leaks. The media are regularly full of it, and the state's attorney's office is busy with it. From some distance the situation is also curious. All political parties in the Netherlands together have about 300,000 members. Moreover, this number fell by 4.4% in 2014, the sharpest decline of this century. On just under 13 million Dutch voters, the total number of members is now less than 2.3%. Nevertheless, for the performance of the functions of mayors and Commissioners of the King, almost exclusively the members of the parties of the larger political parties in particular are exploited. Some cynicism occasionally makes it possible to speak of a job machine which must reward all kinds of services rendered to the party. It is statistically extremely unlikely that optimum fulfilment of these positions can be the result if one chooses to limit oneself to a pool of only 2.3% of the population. It is doubtful that the Crown, who remains formally responsible, is happy with this situation. For the initiator, the fact that the crown appointment is socially and factually out of date is the main reason to remove the appointment of Commissioners of the King and Mayors from the Constitution and leave it to the legislator. The initiator prefers not to discuss how the appointment policy should then be regulated at the moment. An amendment to the Constitution is already complicated enough, even without the discussion being entrusted with anticipating how the appointment policy should be shaped by the legislator by the time it is discussed. My group largely agrees with the views of the initiator. First of all, the current wording of Article 131 in the Constitution is no longer consistent with everyday practice and such a situation is undesirable. In addition, my group and the initiator believe that the crown appointment is not such an essential element in the organisation of our main state institutions that a new division of tasks between the Constitutionalist and the legislator would be excluded. The fact that the crown designation by many is still merely a formality only reinforces this view. The removal from the Constitution of the appointment of the Commissioner of the King and the Mayor is therefore desirable in view of social developments. It is precisely the fact that this is an amendment to the Constitution, with all the guarantees that are attached to this difficult and lengthy procedure, that prevents hasty decisions from being taken which would only follow the delusion of the day. The system's built-in stability is very useful here. The initiator chooses to limit his own initiative law to this one element. Of course, there is a great temptation to fall into all kinds of reflections on how the legislator could or should deal with this matter in the future. However, the history of the subject suggests that it would lead us to a political minefield that would completely deprive us of the first crucial step, namely the removal from the Constitution of this problem of appointment. In my group's view, therefore, it is realistic to limit the legislative proposal as it has been done. By the time the amendment of the Constitution is implemented, the legislator can assume its responsibility and consider whether Commissioners of the King or mayors are needed at all or whether these functions can be performed part-time by elected representatives and how a system with sufficient democratic legitimacy can be implemented. So there's still work to be done. But it wasn't right Thorbecke said: "There's more to do in the world than before."? We have come 'full circle', namely that basically the bill is extremely simple. With a little good will, that same simplicity is also the hallmark of the true. Together with the vast majority of the House of Representatives, I believe that the legislative proposal is an important step that needs to be weighed positively. Even small steps forward lead in the right direction, although it takes some time. But to speak with our philosopher from the Watergraafsmeer: "Every disadvantage has its advantage." Fortunately, this gives the future legislator time to consider the future situation with common sense and to have the public debate about it. What more could a real democrat want? Although I am in favour of the legislative proposal, I am nevertheless looking forward with great interest to the way in which the initiator, also on behalf of the House of Representatives, will conduct his defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u64	At the request of the initiator, I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments. I would have liked to say that we would have been able to see where the Minister had left off, but I see that he is just coming back into the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u65	Mr. Chairman. At the head of a municipality is the council, not the mayor. The mayor is a tool to enable local democracy to function properly and to make its decisions easier to implement. A serving mayor helps the council to make its wishes compatible with national law and financial possibilities. For that interplay it is good if the political color of the mayor fits the prevailing colour of the city council. This has often not been the case in the past and it is still not. In the past this was because some parties were systematically excluded from this position, now that is a consequence of the fact that the current mayors are mainly expected to be professional or professional. For applicants, party membership and party political experience may be a recommendation, but their political colour is becoming less and less important. They are eventually appointed with the passive consent of a majority council, but they have different characteristics than the mayors actively elected by the council abroad, who have often been on the spot first political group chairman and alderman. In practice, mayors are more well-known than council members and aldermen. As a result, their supposed interest goes far beyond their actual position. That is strange, especially if those mayors come from outside their own community or if their political mind deviates from the prevailing preference of local voters. Moreover, their position in the past was mainly that of a controlling government official. The Netherlands has an exceptional appointment system. Outside the Netherlands, the mayor is a politician, who arrives in his or her place in public and with the knowledge of the electorate. With us it is not the municipality that decides on its own. Especially at the beginning of the appointment procedure there is interference with pre-selection at the level of rich and county, and that central interference is again at the end of the procedure. Although experiments have been carried out in recent decades with a gradual increase in local influence on the appointment, this does not at all resemble the much more transparent systems in our neighbouring countries. In my view, Article 131 of the Constitution does not prevent the application of systems from our neighbouring countries, even though I find the initiative referring to rules to be laid down by law a little clearer and more contemporary. I shall deal in turn with the relationship between party politics and the colour of the mayors, with the old reasons for keeping the city council out of appointment, with the experiences of successive experiments aimed at increasing local influence, with the interpretation of Article 131 and with the confusion that arose as a result of the last-proclaimed alternative, which is very different from what it was originally about. In the heyday of the mayor's lobbyists from the Lower House groups, the colour of most mayors was better suited to the municipalities than today. Nowadays we see that a member of the Christian Union can be appointed in an old-fashioned PvdA municipality, members of GroenLinks in VVD municipalities and a member of the SGP in a municipality that is further governed by locals and D66. Sometimes it even seems to be a plus if the party to which the mayor belongs is not represented in the city council concerned, so that he or she can be seen as neutral outsider. Interest in fulfilling mayor's posts and participation in application procedures has traditionally not been limited to the three traditional directors' parties. Their mayoral lobbyists had more or less divided the country, with the exclusion of others. Predictable were the strong positions of the CDA and its three forerunners in rural areas, of the PvdA in urban areas and the north, and of the VVD in the most prosperous suburbs and commuter communities. Within that traditional system, only the SGP succeeded long ago in creating a small but more or less continuous own sector of mayors in the most pronounced Protestant-Christian municipalities. GPV and RPF, now incorporated into the Christian Union, have also been able to make a modest start in some municipalities since 1980. On the left, the former PSP and CPN parties have also tried with much less success to create such a sector. They focused on a limited selection of municipalities with a left-wing majority, so red that a PvdA mayor was not taken for granted. The same mayor posts also remained on the PvdA's wish list. I know from my own experience that sometimes a Commissioner of the Queen apologized to candidates from other left-wing parties that he could not resist the influence of the PvdA's group lobbyist. The practice was that in the 1980s trust committees placed one or more candidates from PSP or CPN at the top of their recommendation lists, but this never led to their appointment except for one case. A lower candidate from the PvdA was then appointed. In municipalities without a clear political colour, the chances of a candidate from outside the big three gradually increased. In some cases, this resulted in a mayor's post for the then PPR, but especially the newly emerging group of D66 candidates proved to be easy to fit. In the past, it was clear why this central interference with the appointment was so great. After the somewhat chaotic, highly decentralised process during the republic, a highly centralized state was chosen in the Kingdom of after 1814. The dominant movements in central government had to be able to distribute paid functions to their confidants. Mayors had to have the confidence from above, i.e. from the central government and from the King's Commissioners stationed in the provinces. Their function should not fall into the hands of highly oppositional movements outside the national power circuit, even if such parties managed to obtain a majority in the city council. Let me give you five examples that illustrate this. They deal with the long-term social-democrat dominated municipalities of Amsterdam, Rotterdam and Gorinchem and the former municipalities of Finsterwolde and Beerta, now dissolved in the East-Groningse Oldambt, with a communist majority for decades. In the two largest cities of Amsterdam and Rotterdam, from 1914 the SDAP was the largest council group, making major changes through its aldermen. On the other hand, in the period between the two world wars, the function of mayor was assigned to members of smaller but more reliable government parties, namely the anti-revolutionary De Vlugt in Amsterdam and the liberal Democrat Oud in Rotterdam. After the war, Gorinchem had a PvdA majority in the city council for a long time, but the government maintained for almost 40 years a quarreling mayor Ridder of Rappard, there once appointed as a member of the former Liberal State Party but later partyless because he found the VVD far too left. By the way, there was no consistent complete exclusion of the left. From 1914 a SDAP mayor was allowed in a limited number of smaller municipalities, especially in the most reddish provinces of North Holland and Groningen. Since the oppositional SDAP was replaced by a ruling PvdA, it gradually generated more and more mayoral posts for her, eventually also in the largest cities. In the rebellious Finsterwolde, in 1951, the position of mayor was extended to that of "Government Commissioner," with the special power to replace his own decisions with those of the city council. The council was not lifted, but simply put out of play as irrelevant discussion club. More recently, between 1982 and 1988, Beerta was the only ever appointed member of the CPN as mayor. Hanneke Jagersma came to that place as a result of a targeted intervention by Ed van Thijn, the then Minister of the Interior, but she was not subsequently reappointed by intervention by the Commissioner of the Queen Henk Vonhoff, who had always been opposed to her appointment. In short, the decision was always at a different level from that of the city council. The only weapons the council majority had was to keep the policy portfolios of unwanted mayors as limited as possible and to keep them away from the installation of such newcomers. The displeasure about the weak position of the city council has long existed. Half a century ago, there was a lot of discussion about finally putting an end to this Dutch state of emergency. An example was the old dominant model in Western Europe, such as that which exists in our neighbour Belgium. In Belgium, too, there is a formal crown appointment, but it does not play any role in the pre-selection process. The method of appointment is hardly different from that of the aldermen, who are called ships there. The city council itself determines in public who its candidate mayor is, and he also starts work immediately after the election during the remaining council period. This mayor is often the leader of the largest party participating in the college, but at least a candidate on which the coalition groups have been able to find each other together. This is almost in line with the cabinet formation and the appointment of a prime minister in the Netherlands. In Belgium, the governments of the Länder may, in a final case, refuse to approve the appointment of those elected by the Council. In practice, this only happens in Flemish municipalities around Brussels and along the language border, in cases where the candidate mayor is suspected of trying to gradually transform a Dutch-speaking municipality into a French-speaking municipality through too many facilities for foreign speakers. The only ground for refusal is therefore a situation which does not arise in the Netherlands. The question is whether such a crown appointment without national interference is possible in the Netherlands. It was not initially the supporters of a mayor elected by the council who demanded constitutional change. It was only the opponents who pointed to the Constitution. Anyone who wanted to reduce the role of higher authorities in the appointment process was challenged to try to change the Constitution first. I believe that this has often been done on the assumption that this constitutional change will never succeed, so that everything remains as usual. That is why today there is extra-municipal interference, both with the pre-selection and with the final decision. Article 131 of the Constitution only shows that the Commissioner of the King and the Mayor are appointed by Royal Decree, as is the case in Belgium. The article doesn't say anything about what's before it. The old interpretation was that the mayor's appointment is prepared in consultation between the Commissioner of the Queen and the Minister of the Interior, excluding any local input. Influence on this by municipal councils or local voters was for a long time rejected in principle by the right. That narrow interpretation was abandoned in the 1970s. Since then, there has been a process of preparation, with a secretly operating trust committee. Why should we not now be able to replace the pre-selection, confidentiality and the confidence committee with a public nomination and a public consultation in the formation of a new college, or in the interim emergence of a mayor's vacature? My question to the Minister is whether, in his opinion, even without a prior constitutional change, the Belgian system could be introduced quickly and fully. And if not, why not? And what is the initiator's position on this? During decades of waiting for such a constitutional change, experiments have been carried out, which means that between the beginning and the end of the appointment procedure municipal participation exists through profile and trust committee, and nowadays also through a final vote of the full council on the two most recommended persons. Participation in this pre-selection remains secretive and even risky. The members of the municipal council selected for a trust committee can be prosecuted if they are suspected of talking to others about what has become known to them or having private conversations with candidates. Candidates can also be prosecuted if they have preinformation. The names of the candidates shall not be made public. For some time there was some prior publicity about the two highly ended candidates at the Trust Committee. An experimental referendum between these two, even though both were members of the same party, has now been abolished. The current model ultimately surprises the general public with the announcement of who became the new mayor, and that is often someone who was expected by virtually no one or who is completely unknown on the spot. The battle of half a century ago was only about a mayor elected by and from the council, a sort of first alderman, a first among equals. The separate election of a powerful individual was never in sight until then. At that time, a broad public debate arose on a possible election of the head of state, by parliament or possibly directly by the electorate, partly as a result of the proposed marriage of our then heir. Some time later, a new party was established with a core theme of all kinds of administrative change. Newcomer D66 started developing a very clever idea at national level: bypass the question of electing the Head of State by moving that election to the Prime Minister. That idea could be reasonably well integrated into the then-popular idea of a two-block system. It was the time when D66 was part of a joint block with PvdA, PPR and PSP, which sought a joint parliamentary majority and a government that supported it. Other parties within that block did not take D66's idea of such an elected prime minister directly, but they could reasonably live with it in those circumstances. Everyone knew in advance that the joint renewal Prime Minister Joop den Uyl was to be chosen. In what way he would be chosen didn't matter so much. When D66 also applied the national idea of a directly elected prime minister to a personal election in the municipalities, that became a splash among those in favour of change. Application of that model could lead to an individualised election, regardless of the list of candidates for the city council and regardless of the coalition formation at the bottom. In the course of the lengthy debate on the "elected mayor" a wide variety of views have emerged on its implementation, and an attempt to change the Constitution in this Chamber ten years ago has been broken. Such situations are not unique. In Australia, a majority of public opinion is in favour of an early introduction of a republic, rather than maintaining the British queen as head of state at a distance. However, there is no success in starting that republic, because there are differences of opinion on the powers and method of electing the future President. Fortunately, the current proposal for our Constitution does not include tying with one particular model. It merely says that we are going to regulate the method of election in a normal law, without unnecessary hindrance to the freedom to complete that law later. The SP agrees and voted in favour in the Lower House. I started by reminding myself of the starting point that the city council is above the mayor. Fortunately, this is laid down in Article 125 (1) of the Constitution, which is not under discussion. The SP wants serving mayors, not rulers. We do not want to saddle our municipalities with a presidential system based on American or French models, where there is always a struggle over who is really in charge. From this point of view, we look with concern at attempts to replace the driving role for the city council by a steering role for the mayor. It could even lead to a mayor standing above the council and choosing his own aldermen. I hear that variant not so much from D66, but from the VVD converted to this electoral model. The variants of D66 and VVD seem superdemocratic. If the mayor really is the boss, why would you leave that boss' election to redundant intermediaries who call themselves city council members? If, on the other hand, the mayor is a servant and enforcer of council decisions, you should not hinder the city council with a separate power factor, which thinks he is separate from the council or even above it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u66	Mr Meijer is now challenging me to ask him a question. Where did he get this knowledge? Has he derived that knowledge from my speech or is this something he has also come up with in the history books?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u67	I did not derive that directly from your speech, nor from the history books.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u68	Shall we stick to that, then, namely that we base ourselves on the input that is being provided here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u69	No, I'm not gonna stick with that, because then I'm gonna call my sources, too. My sources are Mr Luijten, spokesperson of the VVD in a debate at first reading in a previous discussion and Mr Van Heukelum on behalf of the VVD in the second reading in that debate. So I quote former senators of the VVD who have explicitly defended this position here. I'm not making it up myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u70	I would point out to Mr Meijer that interruptions continue through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u71	That's correct, Mr. Chairman. A mayor with many powers who chooses his own aldermen and can cross against a majority council reminds us of the aforementioned Van Rapparddrama in Gorinchem. Such a law-supported new type of mayor could become a Van Rappard-in-the-square. It can lead to action without support. The necessary counter forces against their private hobbies are not given sufficient space in that governance model. I could imagine that D66, too, could see that risk. From what I have said, it will be clear that the SP wants an arrangement that will finally enable a truly elected mayor to be elected by the city council. Amendment of the Constitution may be an appropriate means of doing so, but we do not think that it is necessary to do so, in our preliminary view. With interest we hear what the other groups think about it and how initiator and government react to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u72	Madam President. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance sincerely wonders what the urgency of this initiative proposal is. Topics such as the administrative power of the local government, the degree of robustness of the municipalities, the re-evaluation of the mayor's office, the organisation of the public administration in the Netherlands, the functionalities of the individual levels of government, the coherence and relations between them, the relationship with the first layer of Europe et cetera, are issues that need not only to be on the agenda but also to lead to decision-making and partly reform of the so-called Thorbecke house. But as a fraction of GroenLinks, let us not faint. We will assess this bill on its merits and, in principle, treat it with sympathy. Given the broad administrative experience in the local government in our group, we will confine ourselves to the deconstitutionalisation of the mayor's appointment. In the careful and excellent publication of the Dutch Society of Mayors (NGB) with the title The method of appointment weighted, the Society argues that the method of appointment or appointment of the mayor should not be approached in isolation, as it affects the position and roles of all other actors in local government and local government. With a wink at the campaign of the VWS ministry, I say: society is changing, local government and local government are changing. In addition, more and more tasks and responsibilities have been added in recent years and the mayor's powers have increased. The local government knows its turbulence. As a result, in recent years, we have had to see a lot of aldermen resigning prematurely every year. They had to leave because of a very diverse pallet of political conflicts, often about cuts or cost overruns and budgeting. Integrity issues also play an increasingly important role. Of the 27 aldermen who left office in 2014, one third of the cases concerned integrity issues. Aldermen also left because of personal circumstances, municipal reclassification and promotion to mayor. The stability and administrative strength of local government are essential, as local government, as the nearest government, has in recent years been given ever stronger and more important responsibilities for security, public order, care, overall youth care, regional labour market, work and income, etc. In the interests of local and regional society, in the interests of communities, individuals, professional organisations and in the interests of increasing citizens' initiatives, local government will have to remain and remain professionally of high quality if it is to retain its legitimacy, precisely because of this extensive and heavy task. This requires a lot of people's competences, and it also partly requires other competences, and that at a time when the political landscape in the local government is less naturally leading to broad consensus. Municipal council, college of B and W and the professional official organisation will be able to strengthen their legitimacy by constantly thinking from the outside inside, constantly asking themselves whether they are doing the good things and in a good way and they will gain confidence if there is a widely-behaved feeling and adhesion in the local communities that they take the questions of society and its sometimes complex issues as the starting point for their actions. Manage from people's world of life instead of starting from the system world of laws and regulations, whereas that world is their formal mission: to implement laws and regulations. However, it is a matter of priority. Citizens need to meet an understandable and accessible government, not a closed system world. The local government is increasingly governing the so-called pancake model, connecting in a network society, both locally and regionally, with social partners, professional as well as voluntary organisations, with their own government executives and with citizens who often unite in collectives. The local government no longer controls in a strong, classical and hierarchical sense, if it has ever done so, or should at least not do so again, should it occur, here and there. From this typified society and the way in which local government should adapt to it, the role of the mayor has become greater and more important. The NGB stated in its aforementioned publication: "that in the high pressure pan of modern local decision-making there is room for and need for a relatively independent anchor point. The presence and functioning of a mayor can then contribute to an image of care and impartiality that can be of great importance for the acceptance of decisions." I would like to receive a response from the initiator and from the Minister. In the first sentence of our contribution, we asked about the urgency of this initiative proposal. We understand the attachment of D66 to the issue of "I was there in 2005" and we also note that although there is still the appointment by the Crown of both the mayor and the CdK, in practice over the last ten years there has been talk that the Council and the Provincial States are de facto the bodies determining the choice of the mayor or the CdK respectively. What's wrong with that, so I ask the initiator. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is very satisfied with this, despite the fact that it is, in principle, contrary to constitutional competence. I think most city councils and most mayors are, too. As far as we are concerned, the way in which people are appointed to the two posts can also be regulated by 'ordinary' legislation, namely by the legislator. But then we find that there is a miraculous coalition, both in the Second and in the First Chamber. There seems to be broad support and consensus on the question of deconstitutionalisation, but behind it there is a pluralism of views as to how the appointment or appointment of the two posts should be carried out. It would then be too simple, after accepting this initiative proposal at first and then at second reading, to talk only about the method of appointment as a sort of isolated method of regulation. Here too, the publication of the NGB offers an excellent handle, which makes the pros and cons of the four variants appointed by the Crown, elected by the population, chosen by the aldermen, chosen by the city council (which could also be the variant from their middle or just after an external application procedure) well and carefully insightful. Destitution of the mayor's method of appointment as well as the King's Commissioner is also a major risk if you do not re-affirm that new method of appointment in the Constitution. That is the risk that it constantly moves along with all kinds of popular or temporary views on how to appoint the mayor or the CdK. How do the initiator and minister intend to cover that risk? We also very much agree with the statement in the Notice of appointment and position mayor, which the Minister sent us a little late last Friday. "The appointment of the mayor cannot be separated from his position in the municipal order. The method of appointment must be in line with the institutional position of the mayor, i.e. the way in which he relates to the council and the college or the aldermen and the mayor's own duties and powers. The method of appointment cannot therefore be regarded as an isolated issue; it must, as well as its legal status, be supportive of the position of the mayor in the municipal system." I would like to receive a response from the initiator. My group is happy to support Mr Van Bijsterveld's contribution to ensuring the appointment of the CdK and the mayor, so as to prevent that manner of appointment from constantly changing in the future. This would not be conducive to the prestige, authority, acceptance and legitimacy of the office. We mentioned earlier in our contribution that you first have to look at the total order before individually redefining or reviewing the appointment of the mayor. Logically, the order should be: a discourse on the recalibratement of the mayor's office, the position of the mayor, the necessary administrative power of the local government, the most workable way of the trinity council, college of B and W, the administrative (implementation) organisation, the legitimacy of this administration, and the way in which citizens can use influence to put this governance together and continue to be involved during the administrative period. With regard to the determination of which method of appointment is most workable and/or appropriate for the modernisation and strengthening of local government, I would once again like to refer to the publication of the NGB in which the values of good governance: perspectives for the assessment of the different methods of appointment are articulated. Afterwards, it concerns identification, administrative power, legitimacy and decision-making quality. The group asks both the initiator and the Minister about their views on this valuation in relation to the method of appointment. As I said at the beginning, we have focused our contribution on the deconstitutionalisation of the mayor's appointment. We do know that the proposal also includes the removal from the Constitution of the appointment of the King's Commissioner. In nature they are two different posts. How do the petitioner and the minister view the question of the method of appointment? Can the commissioner of the King's application office remain in the mayor's position? Should both types of appointment be the same or be different because of the difference in the nature of the post? I'd like to hear a response to these questions. As always, we await with great interest the answers of the petitioner and the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u73	Mr. Chairman. The next item is Mr Schouw's own-initiative proposal for the deconstitutionalisation of the appointment of the Commissioner of the King and the Mayor. The PVV thinks this is a good proposal. In fact, Mr President, as far as the PVV is concerned, this step could have been skipped and we would have discussed the direct election of both officials here today. The latest elections for Provincial States with extremely low turnout indicate a growing gap between citizens and politics. As far as my group is concerned, politics must listen much more to the citizens. In the end, it is the citizen who gives the mandate to politics. The PVV suggests that the gap between voter and government can be narrowed considerably by allowing the same voter to decide directly by whom he is governed. An important question to the initiator and, of course, to the Minister is what the next step will be and how long it will take. We have been talking about this subject for decades now, and as far as the PVV is concerned, we are now stepping on the gas pedal. My group hopes that today, with the adoption of this proposal, we will take an important step on the road we believe to be necessary for the citizens themselves to be elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u74	Madam President. As a backstop to the series of spokesmen, I would like to say in advance that it is an honour and a pleasure to speak on behalf of the Christian Union Group in this exchange of views, except on behalf of the SGP Group. If the initiator could move into my position, he would not be surprised that the handling of the legislative proposal before us raises a feeling of déjà vu. All proposals aimed at amending or deleting Article 131 of the Constitution, to the extent that they have reached the Supreme Court over time, I was able to discuss them in this place. These proposals always covered the discussion about a different method of appointment of the Queen's Commissioner and the mayor. The initiator will undoubtedly object to the fact that the situation at the moment is very different from the past, on which I have just pointed out. First of all, with the proposal before us, he wants to completely abstract the discussions I have just mentioned about the methods of appointment of both posts. It's about deconstitutionalisation sec. The question whether or not the method of appointment laid down in Article 61 of the Municipal Act and the Province Act should be maintained is to keep the initiator out of discussion. As far as this discussion is concerned, we should take the view that there is a complete separation between one and the other. Secondly, the initiator of the reply to this Chamber writes: "The initiator has come to his initiative because he had evidence that the legislator could, by now, come to the view that there is a basis for considering a proposal for a change in the Constitution." This is different from, for example, 2005. He distracts this from the party programmes and the government agreement of 2012. With the Council of State, it can be seen that positions on the method of appointment and on the level at which this subject should be dealt with have in recent years been subject to varying majorities and changing views. Single majority voting took place on a few occasions. The initiator is of the opinion that the ordinary legislator should decide on the manner in which the commissioner of the King and the mayor is appointed. It can respond to future insights more easily and quickly than the constitutionalist. However, those who do not see major problems with the current method of appointment will not feel an urgent need for constitutional change either. The key question raised earlier by the initiator is, therefore, whether or not this legislative proposal is intended to solve the problem. I thought Mrs Huijbregts had already raised this question. For me, therefore, it is not really a question of whether the theoretical separation between the proposed constitutional change and the ideas for a change in the method of appointment is realistic. I would like to avoid that before I refer to another method of appointment of the mayor, I should like to confine myself to this post, although the King's Commissioner asks for a separate approach, particularly when it comes to a mayor elected in any way, we should first have a good discussion about what exactly we expect of a mayor in a dualist system. Both the mayor directly elected by the citizens and the mayor elected by the city council will require a fundamental debate on the most desirable system of local democracy and the standards and forms that should apply to it. I also recall Mrs Van Bijsterveld's contribution and her comments on Article 125 of the Constitution, as well as the comments made by Mrs Huijbregts, who asked about the desirability of an evaluation of dualisation. What weighs heavily on me in that discussion about the mayor's position is the mayor's independent position with a substantial public policy and security book. Although the mayor has long since ceased to be the first hand of Thorbecke's governorial words, that is without prejudice to the fact that, for his current appointment, by Royal Decree, he is able to rely on a certain external identity. It offers a title to preserve some distance to the local political elites and power configurations. It makes him more acceptable to many and apparently also to the government, see the memorandum "Mayor and Security" of 9 April 2009.............................................................................................................................................................................................. A question to the government in this regard: will the public order and security function remain with an elected mayor or will it then be taken over by state officials? That phenomenon can be observed beyond our borders. In addition to the limited independent role associated with the majestic elements of the mayor's function, those who wish to emphasise the binding role which may be played by the mayor in local political relations could also derive from this argument in order to maintain the current method of appointment. Our reservations regarding the proposed, substantive position on the desired future role of the mayor-absorbed destitutionalisation stem from the question of what will remain of the added value as a linker above and between the parties in the increasingly divided political landscape in our society, which is undergoing profound social and cultural changes. This underlines the question of whether it is now the right time to decide solely on the methods of appointment of the mayor and the King's Commissioner. For the time being, our political groups still have the reservations that I have had the opportunity to raise on previous occasions and on previous exchanges of views on Article 131 of the Constitution. But that will certainly not prevent me from looking forward with interest to the response to our reflections and questions, both from the initiator and from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-eerstekamer-3.u75	With which the first term of office has come to an end.
