ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Housing and National Service to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. In the nineteenth century, the rise of industry in the Netherlands led to a mass migration of the rural population to the cities and this led to a huge housing problem. The liberal nineteenth-century government did not feel responsible for this. As a result, the first housing associations were initiatives of the good bourgeoisie and of the diaconies of churches that could no longer see the terrible conditions under which people lived. Around 1900 Dutch politics and the administrative elite had become convinced of the need for a more active socio-economic government policy. With the Housing Act of 1901, the government tried to regulate the housing market through the housing associations. Housing institutions were now able to count on financial support from the government, provided that they were subject to its supervision. After that, the growth of the housing stock and thus the growth of the housing associations took a huge turn. With state aid, corporations built thousands of homes a year. The government increasingly defined all facets of corporate policy: building style, rental prices and housing distribution. There was hardly any room for informal input through cooperative models. The voluntary directors and residents lost their influence on the housing work. In 1989 the then Secretary of State for Housing Enneus Heerma decided to self-destruct housing. The subsidy tap was turned off. The idea was that the cost of the social rent had to be paid largely by the construction and sale of expensive properties that the corporations had to develop. That made corporations creative in looking for opportunities to finance the social rent. Many corporations have captured this great freedom well and with integrity. Unfortunately, there were also shoulders that could not bear the wealth, which led to large, unspeakable abuses that were going to determine the image, resulting in a parliamentary survey. Why this sketch? To indicate the wave movement. Moreover, you need to know your past in order to be able to work constructively on the future. The world didn't start today. So we can learn from history. The present revision law and novelle have come a long way. This Chamber can be discussed with the knowledge of the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, and so it should be. The members of the CDA Group thank the Minister for the detailed answers to the questions put. As a result, our input can focus on five areas: residential vision, housing sales, housing sales to finance restructuring in the non-DAEB branch, Europe and the theory versus practice. This law and novelle creates a system for the corporation sector in which the relationship with a particular area or municipality is central and in which residents can talk again. We appreciate that from this revision law. The rules are strict. Because of the abuses that determined the image, that is understandable, but we should not go back to the last century, when the government was everything. That is why we welcome the fact that, although supervision is more stringent, we are satisfied that it has been regulated by an authoritative authority. As far as we're concerned, he might have liked a little more remotely, but you can't have everything. The municipality is given a more explicit role and if you do not come out as a municipality and corporation, then there is always the minister as a dispute-solver in the back. However, if the municipality does not have a residential vision, it cannot rely on the minister as a dispute settlement and the corporations do not have to comply with the obligation to contribute to municipal policy in the area of housing through performance agreements in reasonable terms. With a view of living or whatever you want to call it, it's not about the letter, but about the spirit, the municipality has the opportunity to map out things like population building, housing stock and future housing needs, so you don't only know how many homes you need, but above all what kind of homes you'll need, whether it's rent or space for sale, for young or old, for families or for singles. With a residential vision, you let citizens talk about your municipal housing policy. On the basis of this housing vision, the municipality makes performance agreements with corporations according to the reform law. The government does not want to impose a municipal housing vision with this bill. According to the government, it fits in with the autonomy of the municipality that it itself determines how it defines its housing policy. However, the government shares the view of the CDA group that the housing vision should be a test for performance agreements between municipality and corporation. This revision law must be about the ultimate goal: to build homes for the people who need it because, given their income, they are dependent on it. The target group is mixed. Knowing who you're building for therefore seems essential to the CDA group and you can get that up in that residential vision. After all, nobody has anything to build for empty space. You could say that the vision of living is the foundation on which you literally build your future. Why, then, is the Minister's refusal and in all honesty also of his predecessors to anchor this foundation in the law? We know that the First Chamber has no right of amendment, but we ask the Minister if he is prepared to promote, in consultation with the VNG, that a housing vision be drawn up by the municipalities and to keep his finger on the pulse. Again, I don't care what it's called; it's about the ultimate goal, capturing what you need for the future. If this does not lead to the desired result, namely performance agreements between municipalities and corporations, then we ask the Minister whether he is prepared to make the housing vision compulsory after the review provided for in the law. With regard to debt securities, the House of Representatives has adopted the amendment tabled by Mr Knops (33966, No. 55) adopted. The amendment in question provides that in the case of restructuring projects where the land is already owned by the corporation, a market test should not be carried out on any non-DAEB elements of the new project to be built. Other requirements, such as efficiency requirements, are rightly in full force. The Minister is right to reply to the written question as to whether this exception should also apply to lease payments: land under lease is not own land. However, we also know that an important part of the restructuring plans for corporations and municipalities in cities such as Amsterdam, Rotterdam, The Hague, Utrecht and Maastricht are located on land leases. In the case of land leases, the municipal government continues to influence the building and use of land leases for a length of days. This gives the government more certainty about the new destination and is therefore an additional argument not to carry out a market test in the case of restructuring on debt-to-equity and to have the debt-to-equity treated as if it were its own land. Moreover, a housing corporation cannot be forced to sell the lease right to a market participant. So what's the point of that "market test"? In the view of the CDA Group, a lot of unnecessary red tape can be avoided by equalising own land and land use. The Minister now has the opportunity to take this back into the AMvB, after it has been removed from the first version of the concept of the AMvB. We would like to hear from the Minister either a positive response or a justification for the difference in treatment between own land and land use. Then we are talking about the arguments that emerged from the consultation round of the concept of AMvB, which has abandoned the equal treatment of property and property ownership. Clear profit from Enneus Heerma's policy was that because of the greater freedoms of housing corporations in many places in the Netherlands, wonderful initiatives could emerge from mixed neighbourhoods, that the viability became a shared problem and that, instead of building Vinex neighbourhoods, there was more listening to what future residents wanted. Citizen center, you could say. The CDA Group would not want to take a step backwards on this issue, but it is afraid of that. A feature of restructuring is that it is not only about housing improvement, but often also about district improvement. This often requires more than a group of social housing units. The market generally picks up only projects that are profitable, and that is understandable. With this law, several will soon have to be paid out of the sale of own property from 2012, minus WSW-stored financing and limited to the annual profit. According to the CDA group, this gives a perverse incentive. In conjunction with the landlord's tax, which the Minister also believes can be paid out of the sale of housing or the increase in rents, this incentive can lead to corporations no longer being able to satisfy what they are in nature to do, namely social housing, or that, by not being able to sell, we will be able to fall back into the problem of impoverished neighbourhoods. The CDA Group does not consider either to be a pleasant idea. Unfortunately, the landlord's tax in this Chamber is passed until the evaluation. We also pointed out the dangers mentioned above. We think we should take a look at how we should do this. We have also pointed out the dangers in the treatment of the landlord's tax. With the proposed financing of restructuring that does not fall within the SGEI sector, you run the risk of only strengthening this problem. We therefore ask the Minister once again why he prefers this strict method of financing to the so-called own resources policy which now, in accordance with European rules, is used to finance the restructuring in question. We will involve the debate and the Minister's replies in a motion which may be tabled in the second term. At the end of the month, the First Chamber received a letter from Aedes. A number of things have already been taken into account in this input. However, it was also mentioned that the tightening of supervision could create the impression that public influence extends to construction contracts, which may have an impact on the contracting of European or non-European goods. In view of the fact that the Minister knows the letter in question, we would like to hear a response from the Minister to the problem raised and the solution put forward. In Europe's view, rules on overcompensation should be laid down. Aedes argues that the "one size fits all" formula for overcompensation contains errors, says rather little about the actual benefit achieved and rewards inefficient business operations. Could it mean that a corporation that manages to reduce its operating expenses by working efficiently will soon be punished for good policy, while a corporation that does not do so will not have to pay back anything in the same case? I'd like a response from the Minister. We can think of everything in theory, but that doesn't mean that reality joins in. The proposal lays down that corporations must withdraw in the area where they have the most housing. I would like to mention some of the consequences of this. It would mean that Amersfoort would lose the two corporations with which it realizes its housing assignment, namely De Alliance and Portaal, because they are in other municipalities, in other areas more heavily in the numbers. Amersfoort in trouble. I would like to mention one more example, thanks to Aedes' body leaf. If housing company in the head of Noord-Holland would limit itself to the northern part, then there is no corporation anymore active in parts of the Waterland region. The other way around, that's the same thing. If region Purmerend became the core area, then the north has a problem, as it is the only social landlord there in large parts. In our view, this cannot be the intention. We now know the possibilities of identifying housing market regions and the role of municipalities in them. But that takes time, and it cannot be the case that the legislator, or the legislation, is going to work in such a way that the housing of people in not insignificant parts of our country is going to fall apart. We ask the Minister whether he recognizes this problem and, if so, what he is going to do about it or what practical solution he can provide. The CDA Group is not opposed to revising the housing policy. She appreciates the increased input of citizens and tenants positively. We support measures to try to make abuses such as those that have occurred impossible as far as possible with the knowledge of today. However, we do not want to shoot into a cramp, we do not want to throw away the baby with the bath water. At the time of Enneus Heerma, the subsidies received by the corporations have already been abolished. They had to earn the money themselves to realize the social housing task. This law makes it harder to earn and increases the burden. In fact, you go back a bit in time in that respect, but without a subsidy and without a pay model. Article 22 (2) of the Constitution states: "Promoting sufficient housing is the subject of public concern'. In our view, we have the housing corporations for that. For the CDA Group, it is the task of housing corporations to build homes for the people who need them. That is their core task, but then we have to consider whether we can do that adequately with this law and make it impossible or unnecessarily difficult for corporations to do so by means of a theoretical straitjacket. Sometimes the practice is more uncomfortable than the theory. Hence our questions to the Minister. We are waiting with interest for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u3	The VVD Group has welcomed the legislative proposal for a revision of the institutions and the novelle. During the written preparation we asked some questions. We thank the Minister for his prompt and nevertheless good response. It is not unusual for us to ask ourselves every legislative proposal: is there a problem? And if so, does this bill contribute to solving the problem? My group would like to answer these two questions in the affirmative. Yeah, there's a problem. The people's housing is not enough. There is too much freedom and too little democracy. For a people's party for freedom and democracy, there is a problem. But also for all those people and agencies involved in the corporations, tenants and house seekers. The Minister has dealt with the problem, with consistency. He comes to terms with Aedes and the European Commission. He's also dealt with the problem by communicating. He has spoken a great deal with supporters of his plans and with opponents. Thanks to the commitment of everyone, the bill was accepted unanimously. That is very special, because it is a comprehensive and complicated problem. In parallel with the draft law, the parliamentary committee of inquiry on housing corporations carried out its work. The Committee of Inquiry has received a great deal of appreciation. My group agrees with that appreciation. Two years of research, a thorough report and a unanimous opinion. The opinion of the Committee of Inquiry and this legislative proposal are largely similar. However, on two points they were very different from each other. On the issue of external supervision, the committee proposes a ZBO (self-employed administrative body) housing authority. The bill represents an inspection under the responsibility of the Minister. By amendment of D66, the Lower House has opted for an authority housing corporations without the status of an independent administrative body. The second point concerns the question: may only SGEIs or corporations continue to do non-DAEBs? I assume, Madam President, that the term SGEIs does not need to be spoken in full each time and that I can use the abbreviation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u4	If you'd like to explain, that's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u5	SGEIs represent services of general economic interest. So say the regulated sector, social housing and above that border the free sector. For Mr Duivetteijn too, the light is now shining, I see. Thank you, Madam President, for giving me the opportunity to transfer some knowledge. The Lower House has opted for a limited non-DAEB. My group agrees with these two choices as they are now part of the legislative proposal. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supports this proposal. It is a good answer to a serious problem. The proposed measures are necessary. There was a lot wrong and the whole sector wants to know what it's up to now. We therefore support the objectives of the legislative proposal. I'll give them a quick word. - to use the assets of corporations for social housing for people on low incomes; - reduce the risks to power, - setting clear targets in the regulated sector and in the free sector; - no market disturbance, - meet the European Commission's requirement that state aid be limited to housing for income up to €39,000. The proposed measures are also feasible. They will often ask for a new approach and new procedures. It can't be like it used to be. There are a number of things that can't be done at all. Or, as someone said, "Everything else must be changed so that it can remain the same in the end." The proposed measures are legitimate in the opinion of the VVD Group. The Minister followed the opinion of the Council of State and the measures were discussed in detail with the European Commission. The bill is not only necessary, enforceable and legitimate, it is also innovative. It makes room for the housing cooperative. This is an innovation to which Mr Duivetteijn has contributed a great deal. We hope that this cooperative will meet a need. Clarity is urgently needed for the sector. We can no longer wait to see if any improvements are possible. It is important that we now lay down the rules that have been lacking for so long. Of course, we are not uncritical. On some points, I would like to raise some questions and comments and I would ask the Minister to respond. This concerns the SGEI points - non-DAEB, the viability, the role of the municipalities, the position of the tenants and the culture of the corporations. I shall begin with the distinction between SGEIs - non-DAEB. The parliamentary committee of inquiry on housing corporations has invented a slogan: 'Non-DAEB: do not'. It's easy to remember, effective and attractive because of its simplicity. "Non-DAEB: do not" means that there is only SGEI left for the corporations. This clearly has advantages such as simpler rules, no market distortion in the free sector and fewer risks to social capital. But only SGEIs also have two major disadvantages. Rejecting non-DAEB possession of the corporations takes a lot of time and it will lead to huge losses. In addition, allowing non-DAEBs to no longer create an obstacle to urban renewal in those urban renewal areas where the market is failing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u6	The legislative proposal solves this dilemma by setting SGEIs as a rule and non-DAEB as an exception; continuation of existing non-DAEBs and non-DAEBs in urban renewal. However, a number of keys must be performed on the latter: - Is non-DAEB necessary? This is established in the performance agreements between the municipality and the corporation; - Is the market absent? The municipality carries out this market test; - is the non-DAEB investment financially sound and profitable? WSW and the regulators are checking this out. In this way, it remains possible for the administratively separate corporation to invest in non-DAEBs in restructuring areas. As an objection, the sector mentions that this process is too complicated. On the other hand, however, the administrative separation was introduced precisely at the request of the sector. This gives more risks and therefore more rules are needed to reduce the risk. Moreover, corporations have the alternative to legal division. He knows a lot less rules. An amendment by SGP, CU, CDA and PvdA has been added which allows for an exception for smaller corporations. In total, these smaller corporations are only required to separate income and expenses if they do at least less than 5% non-DAEB and have a balance sheet total of less than EUR 30 million. So anything remains possible, but with fewer risks than before. The conclusion of my group is therefore that 'Non-DAEB: do not' is in theory the best solution, but in practical terms the regulation of the bill is preferable. A lot has gone wrong under the heading of viability and social property, as the report of the Committee of Inquiry shows. It is therefore a good thing that this is further regulated in the legislative proposal and in the AMvB. This is mainly done in the form of positive and negative lists of activities that are or are not permitted. My group can imagine that there will be new wishes over time. These are then included in the performance agreements and this could then lead to an increase in the requirements of the AMvB. My group wonders whether it would not be desirable to include an external border in the law in order to avoid an unbridled extension of the AMvB; a definition or a definition. This is all the more true because the concept of viability is also used in other laws. I appreciate the Minister's willingness to respond to this. The legislative proposal focuses on existing tasks of the municipalities, housing vision and performance agreements. In addition, it includes a contract for new tasks for the municipality, namely checking the compliance with performance agreements, the market test and the formation of residential regions. From a democratic point of view, my group wholeheartedly agrees with this. The municipality has an overall picture of all relevant interests, much more than the corporation has. From a financial point of view, my group sees a risk here, namely that the municipality will strive for provision at the expense of the corporation. The corporation has the money and ambition and will therefore want to meet the municipal wishes. It is fine that provision will be made, but the question is whether they should be paid by tenants or by taxpayers. The Committee of Inquiry recommends strengthening the position of tenants in order to increase the legitimacy of the system and as a counterweight to the corporation. A sympathetic proposal, with which my group agrees. My group also considers it desirable to look not only at the sitting tenants, but also at the position of future tenants, the house seekers. Now "dwelling seeker" is a broad term. There are people for whom moving is a wish but not a necessity. But there are also people for whom a house is not a wish but on the contrary need, the urgents and the active seekers who accept a offered home immediately. That's the group I'm talking about. Sitting tenants have a particular interest in maintenance and energy saving. They have less interest in rent increases, in new buildings and in countering skews. The other way around, house-seekers have an interest in new construction and countering skews. There is a conflict of interest here. In addition, house seekers are not organized, like tenants. Nor does my group share the view that housing seekers are represented by the municipalities. People looking for housing live or stay in various municipalities, they are not always registered as a house seeker with those municipalities and they are not all known to the Tl either. In this conflict of interests, my group believes that it should give higher priority to house seekers than to sitting tenants, because sitting tenants are in a relatively better housing situation than looking for housing. Residents live in, have to travel for a long time, can no longer pay housing costs, or have another urgency. For this reason, my group believes that ownership of tenants is desirable in principle, but that should not be at the expense of those seeking housing. That is why we have difficulty with a right of consent for tenants, for example in the case of rental policies, in the case of purchase and sales policies, and in the case of new construction plans of the corporation. Meepraten, yes; co-decide, no. More generally, we are wondering how the interests of house seekers can be better served, on top of existing policies. We appreciate the existing policy, but we wonder if it can be done even better, especially when we hear that municipalities now want to build their own homes. On this point, too, I would like a response from the Minister. Finally, culture. Let me begin by saying what we do not mean by culture. Everything I would like to put into structure is not part of culture. Structure is then: powers, tasks, organisational structure, procedures, measures, etc. I call culture the attitude with which it is worked, the basic attitude or mentality. Corporations could include some elements such as the fact that the corporation works for people from the lower income groups; the fact that a lot of confidence has been lost in the sector and much needs to be recovered; the fact that there is work with social capital, not own money, but money from others; the fact that there is work with property worth a lot. That requires extra discipline. It is only to avoid misunderstanding that I mention these points; it is not a final definition. The draft law takes a lot of measures. In addition, the stacking of rule by line has been avoided. The principle of 'quis customer custodes' is well applied. But has culture changed, too? There are reasons to doubt that. Aedes and individual corporate directors have stressed that all kinds of positive forms of housing and building would be difficult, if not impossible. Of course, advocacy is permitted. There's an oration pro domo to be expected from Aedes. But it doesn't sound like the words of someone who claims to have learned his lesson. Even during the discussion of this bill in the House of Representatives, there was again talk in the publicity about the salaries of directors. Research shows that 73% of corporations focus on the real estate market and 27% on the target group. 17% of the corporations did not participate in Aedes' benchmark. It is all legal, but it is not the self-limitation that we think we can expect from a social housing corporation. It is extremely difficult to change culture. This calls for indirect measures in the context of the structure. Perhaps I should mention two suggestions, without giving the pretence an adequate solution. First of all, to increase public access. Much is already public, but more can be made public, active and passive; maximum. The WOB in the semi-public sector. It could, above all, work preventively. Thorbecke said it: "Nothing works as purifying as the light of public access." Secondly, a register for Commissioners. An interesting start has been made in Rotterdam. It's just two suggestions, but maybe there are more. Is the Minister prepared to look into that? It's easier said than done, but we need to make sure that we don't get back to business as usual, because that would be unforgivable for all those people who depend on the social rental sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about a significant legislative package, in which a multitude of measures are taken, which are partly further developed by AMvB. Both legislative proposals that we are discussing today, jointly and as a unit, have been discussed in detail in the House of Representatives, and the novelle has also been substantially amended there. I will not attempt in this debate to discuss all the discussions that have taken place, or to deal with all the parts of the legislative proposals. I am happy to note that the various parties have different concerns, so perhaps we will all be able to cover the whole bill. Although the legislative proposals focus on the regulation of the admitted institutions for housing, the housing corporations, I do not go into the background of the law and all the effects that the law will have on the corporations, but I particularly look at the effects from the point of view of the supply and affordability of housing for tenants who rely on cheap rental homes, the purpose of social housing policy. I deal with the role of the municipalities, the appropriateness test, the rent policy and affordability in relation to sustainability and energy saving. Although they are important elements of the law, I will not go into in detail the strengthening of the position of tenants, the regionalisation and supervision of housing corporations, the co-operation of housing and the separation of SGEI/non-DAEB activities. Fortunately, we have already dealt with this abbreviation, so fortunately I do not have to mention it again. In particular, with regard to tenant participation and the maintenance of a limited possibility that housing corporations can work alongside housing for social functions and livingability in the neighbourhoods, significant improvements have been made to the legislative proposal by amending the House of Representatives. At the end of my story, I will discuss the exemption from the market test on land owned by land versus land leased by land. But as I said, I'll start with affordability. Where an important objective of this legislative proposal is to ensure that housing corporations focus more on their core tasks than before, ensuring a sufficient amount of affordable housing for those who are dependent on it, it is not, of course, intended that the legislative proposal should have the anticipated or unforeseen effect of jeopardising that affordability. But there is that risk, both in terms of the size of the social core stock and in terms of rents. Both in this legislative proposal and in previous legislative proposals, where questions were asked about maintaining the stock of affordable rental homes, the Minister refers to the performance agreements that municipalities can make with housing corporations on the core stock. The present legislative proposal further strengthens the role of the municipality. The municipal housing vision is given an important role and also gives the municipalities more opportunities to influence the activities of housing corporations. On the question of what happens if municipalities do not establish a housing vision, the Minister says that it is in the interests of the municipalities to do so and that they will. On the question of what happens if performance agreements are not made, the Minister replied that the municipality can submit a dispute to the minister if a corporation does not want to participate in the design of the social housing contract. These answers seem to assume that municipalities themselves will and will always do the right thing. A very good starting point in itself, but the question is whether it can be done without a correction mechanism at all. In most municipalities, the discussion about the desired stock of social housing is based not only on the number of people seeking housing, but to a large extent colored by party political beliefs, where the question of who one wants to live in priority housing plays an important role. This may mean that housing people with lower incomes and thereby maintaining an adequate core stock of social housing in some municipalities may be compromised. Does the Minister recognize this? And if so, what possibilities does he have to intervene? I am pleased that my colleague from the CDA cited Article 22 of the Constitution, because taking care of that nuclear stock is also a responsibility of the government. Would it be an option if not only municipalities, but also housing corporations or tenant representatives could submit a dispute concerning performance agreements or their absence to the Minister? Monitoring alone does not seem sufficient to prevent municipalities from giving insufficient priority to housing people with the lowest incomes. I'm not saying that municipalities will or will do this, but if they do it, it will take more than monitoring. We assume that when evaluating the law the role of the municipalities is carefully considered: do they take up their responsibilities; do they set up a living vision and do they make performance agreements? And do these visions and agreements result in the core stock of social rental in the municipality being set at a level appropriate to the share of residential seekers within the primary target group? I would like a commitment from the Minister that this will be the subject of evaluation, and that he will come forward with proposals for appropriate measures when it appears that municipalities remain too passive or meet a substantial number of municipalities too low in core stocks. I'm coming to the appropriate allocation. My group supports the principle of appropriate allocation. It is important that tenants in the primary target group are offered a truly affordable home and not a home that is still a social rental house in name, but for many people in fact already priceless. We therefore share the principle that people in the primary target group should be offered a house below the capping limit. However, the question is whether the design of this point of departure in the law and in the AMvB is not so gross and inflexible that the undesirable side effects will outweigh the positive effects of the measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u8	Mrs De Boer, I have a question for you: you say that the municipalities will probably not forsake, but you would like to hear from the Minister what kind of mechanism he has, other than monitoring, if municipalities do. What I am struggling with a little bit, and I already had that when my colleague from the CDA, Mrs De Vries, was speaking, is that at the moment we are going to decentralise something, because we think that there should be something more to the local government, you notice in this house that immediately there is another tendency to ask what we can do centrally. In any case, you just skip over the province. I always wonder where that came from. You give something away we do that in all kinds of areas, for example at the Wmo..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is, in advance, distrust of how things will turn out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u9	There is a need in advance to ensure the fundamental rights of citizens. I'm struggling with that myself. So I'm in favour of giving the municipalities an important role. However, the government has a system of responsibility, precisely for guaranteeing the fundamental rights of its citizens. How do you shape that as a government? Monitoring is part of that, but the question is whether that is enough. That is why I ask the Minister to explicitly involve this in this evaluation and to see whether municipalities take responsibility and whether the overall nuclear stock is sufficiently established. If it all works out fine, I'm fine with it, but it's something we need to think about. We cannot say: it is now with the municipalities, so it will go well. I'd like to assume trust, but I do think you should think about how as a state government you properly fulfill that system responsibility. I had come to the appropriateness test and the question whether its design is not too inflexible. In particular, housing corporations call on the undesirable side effects of the requirement that 95% of those seeking housing from the primary target group should be offered housing below the capping limit in three years' time. For example, Aedes points out that a uniform national regime makes it impossible to make agreements and provide tailor-made services at regional level, whereas the availability of cheap rental homes and the possibility of allocating them to certain income groups varies considerably between regions depending on the situation in the housing market. Aedes also argues that in many municipalities there are simply too few houses with rents below the capping limit to meet demand from the primary target group; there is a mismatch. According to the housing corporations, there are two ways to deal with this mismatch when it is no longer allowed to allocate more expensive rental homes to those seeking housing from the primary target group: either the target group has to wait a little longer for an affordable home, or the housing corporations rent more homes below the capping limit. This will then have to be done by offering more expensive housing cheaper, because within three years a corporation will not be able to build a significant amount of cheap housing. However, housing corporations have to take advantage of this: they receive less rent income, while the landlord's tax they have to pay remains based on the higher value of the property. There is a good chance that the housing corporations will compensate for the rent of more expensive houses for a price below the capping limit by renting out really cheap houses that are now under the maximum reasonable rental price more expensive, right below the capping limit. This in turn may mean that, in contrast to savings on the rental surcharge paid above the capping limit, much higher rent allowance expenditure is placed below the capping limit, which does not leave much of the objective of the adequacy test contributing to the reduction of the cost of the rental payment. That's not supposed to happen, is it? Does the Minister not think that with a mandatory national standard of 95%, he puts housing corporations in municipalities where there is now a mismatch in an impossible position? Why didn't he choose a lower percentage in the AMvB, with more room for local customization? Doesn't that fit much better with the spirit of this bill, where local agreements between municipalities, housing corporations and tenants prevail? Why is local customization being put first when it comes to determining the core stock, but not when it comes to allocating it appropriately? These two subjects are inseparable from each other, aren't they? Is the Minister prepared to include a lower percentage in the AMvB, with the remark that other percentages can be agreed in local performance agreements? If he is not prepared to do so, how should housing corporations resolve the dilemma he considers? Should they increase the waiting lists, or should they rent houses below the price? Or does the Minister see any other solutions? Could a temporary rent discount on the basis of income be helpful here? And if corporations are gonna rent out more expensive properties below the capping limit, how are they gonna pay for that? Does the Minister recognise the risk that they will rent cheaper apartments more expensive to compensate, with all the consequences for the rent surcharge? It is to be expected that the strict requirements for appropriate allocation will also put a brake on investment in improving the energy efficiency of social housing. After all, if the rent is to remain below the capping limit, these investments will not quickly be profitable. The adequacy requirements may not only result in investments not being made in sustainability, but also in tenants paying more, on balance, to a rent below the capping limit plus energy costs than they would pay for a slightly higher rent with much lower energy costs. This cannot be the intention either, I would ask the Minister, partly in view of the energy agreement, which was also signed by Aedes. Does the Minister see the possibility of adjusting the rules for the appropriate allocation in such a way that investment in sustainability and energy saving continues to pay, for example, by looking not only at the bare rent, but in one way or another at the total burden of living?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u10	I very much agree with you that appropriateness is a serious problem and that it is also increasingly due to a large number of causes. Now we were just discussing whether matters should be settled locally or not. The performance agreement is of course a great success, but here we are talking about the, I would almost say, primary task of the corporations. Isn't it the main reason for their existence to help lower income groups get affordable homes? It is not obvious to look at the Empire for a solution. I also have the feeling that there are many more solutions that the two Aedes have put forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u11	I totally agree with that. And that is why I ask the Minister why he puts that percentage at 95 nationwide. That is very inflexible and that makes local customization impossible. Just because of these local performance agreements you can see what the offer of affordable rentals is in your own municipality and whether you can get that 95% there. If you can make it, there's no problem. If there is a problem, you can see how to make the most appropriate allocation locally. Moreover, you can look much better at the investments in energy saving locally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u12	I read in the newspaper this morning that there is something different going on across the street about that 95% in three years. Anyway, maybe we shouldn't care too much from across the street. Should this, precisely because it is a primary task or even the main task of the corporations, not be a reason for the corporations to work on this and to deal with it? Then they can see how far they'll get in three years, and then it's still early enough to see if things need to be adjusted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u13	Yes, provided you have an eye for possible adverse side effects. And that's what my questions are about. My questions are not about the starting point, but about possible adverse side effects. If the effect is that housing corporations to keep their own household books in order, the rent of all homes that are now offered really cheaply, raise to just below the capping limit, it is the question whether you achieve your goal. So the call is actually to focus on the goal you want to achieve. And the question is whether you do not need a slightly more flexible mechanism than to really record that 95%. We understand that Platform31, a knowledge and network organisation for urban and regional development, is appropriately allocating what it calls an experiment. This experiment consists of conducting research into possibilities and impacts and supporting policy design. Has the minister been in contact with this platform? Is he prepared to engage in further consultation with this platform, the housing corporations, the municipalities and, of course, the tenant organisations in order to review the desired and undesirable effects of the currently proposed adequacy rules, and to adapt these rules where necessary or to allow for more flexible application? While we are talking about the affordability of social housing, I would like to take this opportunity to ask two questions that do not directly relate to this bill, but do deal with that affordability. The first concerns the annual rent increase that landlords in the social sector are allowed to pass on. This year is 1.5% above inflation. For years, rents have been allowed to rise faster than inflation, while inflation is largely caused by rent increases, but that aside. The ratio of this above-inflationary rent increase escapes me, quite frankly. Can the Minister explain why it is necessary to increase rents by more than inflation, and why it is reasonable that lower-income tenants should not, after all, be required to pay this additional contribution in relation to the income-dependent rent increase and thereby be reduced in their purchasing power? The second question concerns the future system of rent fixing on the basis of rents, rents and taxation of rents. From the written answers, we say that the Minister will come forward with proposals for this in spring 2015. Now that spring has finally arrived last weekend, I ask the Minister whether the time has come for us to be able to look forward to these proposals. I also like to hear whether it is possible to develop a proposal that is widely supported by organisations of landlords and tenants. Can the Minister further indicate whether the design of the future rent policy will also consider that a system will not inhibit energy savings and that it may look at the total housing costs rather than just the bare rent. Finally, a single word about the exemption from the market test in situations of market failure. I have also asked for this in the written rounds, but I find the Minister's answers extremely unsatisfactory and legally questionable. And I'm not alone in that, according to the letters we received from Aedes and from F4, the corporations in the big cities. They also rely on advice from the law firm Kennedy van der Laan, an office specialising in real estate and rental business. What's it about? The bill allows corporations to invest under strict conditions outside their primary tasks, for example in urban restructuring. A market test must show that market players are not interested. Under the Knops amendment, that market test does not have to take place if the corporation invests on its own land, as a market participant cannot claim ownership of the corporation. That would be contrary to property law. The amendment did not make the same exception to the mandatory market test explicit for long-term debt securities, which, in the Minister's reasoning, would require a market test for long-term debt securities. The distinction that is made here between property and property is illogical and, moreover, legally unjustified, according to law firm Kennedy Van der Laan. In principle, a municipality always issues land continuously or even perpetually in leases; temporary leases are hardly present. For the purposes of the Law, in the case of permanent leases, the leaseholder has almost the same rights as an owner when it comes to using the land. A housing corporation cannot be forced to transfer the lease right to a market participant. The principle of equality should therefore require that the exception to the obligation to carry out a market test for non-DAE investments should also apply to land on land issued by municipalities on a permanent or perpetual basis. Inheritance is common in cities with large restructuring targets, including the G4. Housing corporations can mean a lot to the quality of the living environment and prevent segregation in neighbourhoods where this is urgently needed. A mandatory market test for that property that should not be forced to transfer housing corporations makes restructuring unnecessarily complicated and time-consuming. Does the Minister share our analysis that someone who has land in permanent or perpetual leases has almost the same rights and obligations as someone who owns land and should therefore, in principle, be treated equally? If not, where is the legal difference, and why is that difference relevant in this case? Is the Minister prepared to settle, as soon as possible, the tie-up between ownership and permanent leases, if possible via the AMvB and if necessary by means of a repair law? I await with interest the answer to these and our other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u14	Mr. Chairman. The present legislative proposals involve substantial changes to the Housing Act in terms of the position of the approved institutions and the influence of the tenants within those institutions. In my contribution, the emphasis will be on the position of the tenants. The majority of the proposed amendments are acceptable to our group. That is why my party in the Lower House voted in favour of these legislative proposals. We welcome the fact that the influence of tenants on the policy of housing corporations is being improved. I am thinking in particular of the greater influence of the tenant organisations in the now mandatory performance agreements and the right of consent in the case of mergers and connections. In addition, we consider the strengthening of the municipalities' position vis-à-vis the corporations to be very important. In addition to this agreement, however, we also have a number of questions and criticisms. I would like to explain this to you, but I would like to highlight it differently from the previous speakers. I welcome that, because they have already discussed a number of aspects that I do not need to discuss. The House of Representatives adopted a large number of amendments in the examination of the legislative proposals. I refer briefly to the list of these amendments in the letter from the Minister to this Chamber of 17 December. I would like to draw particular attention to the amendments to the documents. 48, 59, 61 and 63, which reflect the position and rights of tenants and tenant organisations. The amendment in part No. 48 by Mr Monasch and others concerns the role of tenant organisations in the establishment of performance agreements and the equivalent information position for municipalities with regard to finance and investment. A recent publication of Aedes notes that a significant change in the law is found in the fact that the tenant organisations are given a full role in the performance agreements, a situation which, according to the same publication, does not exist at the moment. The question then lies in who has the ultimate decisive control in determining the content of those agreements. The Minister wrote to us on 17 December. that the performance arrangements should be made jointly by the housing corporations, the municipality and the tenant organisations. I ask the Minister the following question: if these three parties do not reach agreement by mutual agreement and therefore no performance agreements can be reached, for example because the vision of the corporation differs from the view of the tenant organisation, how should we proceed to reach these agreements? If we can derive from the Minister's proposals that the parties can then appeal to the Minister, I would like to hear from him whether that is the right vision. What powers and possibilities does the Minister have at his disposal to reach these agreements, and what criteria does the Minister apply to them? And what does the Minister mean in this context by a full-fledged role of the tenant organisations? We like to hear it. As a follow-up to this, we point to the bottlenecks in current practice. It is true that performance agreements have already been made between a municipality and a corporation, for example in large cities, but that the corporation does not want to comply with these agreements, relying on its poor or insufficient financial position, which according to the corporation is mainly the result of the landlord levy. Practice shows that the municipality is empty-handed in this situation. Will this change after the introduction of the new legal provisions? I'd like to hear that from the Minister. In the current situation, for financial reasons, a corporation may decide to demolish homes belonging to the core stock, with tenants having serious objections to the demolition. Nevertheless, such a corporation can continue its demolition plan because neither the municipality nor the tenants' organisation has an effective means of stopping the demolition. We ask the Minister whether this situation changes under the new law, and if so, in any way and whether, in the view of the Minister, this is a full role for the tenant organisation. I would also like to refer to the no less than 286 questions put by the House of Representatives in connection with the present draft decision. I have seen that quite a few answers have already been received in recent days; a lot of work has been done. Number 79 of this list asks the Minister whether he considers that it would be in line with the recommendations and findings of the parliamentary committee of inquiry as tenant organisations should agree to a reorganisation plan. My supplementary question is whether tenants should or should agree to a demolition plan for their homes. If there is a difference of opinion between a corporation and the tenants and if the corporation continues to demolish, can the tenants' organisation then stop it under the new law, or does it remain the old one and does it not have the power to stop it? I also note that many of the 286 questions relate to essential aspects of the proposed legislative amendment and that it is therefore also important for this Chamber to take note of the outcome of the exchange of views in the House of Representatives. We have seen a number of pieces by now. Is the Minister prepared to inform this Chamber of those results before the decision is taken? The draft law before us has been extended, but on a number of points it is also very global. Many good amendments have been adopted. They are now being worked out, but their elaboration is, of course, very essential for our assessment of the whole. I would like this Chamber to be able to say something about that. It is therefore my preference that the Minister should first refer the result he has achieved on the other side to this Chamber. Finally, on behalf of my group, I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on the Verhoeven and others amendment. in piece No. 59, which provides for a strengthening of the training and professionalisation of tenant organisations through the Act on the consultation of tenants and the compulsory financial support by the corporations. Under the current consultation law, I come back to today's practice, it happens that tenant organisations ask a corporation for financial support for the use of experts, but that such a request is simply rejected because the corporation does not consider it necessary to engage an expert by the tenant organisation. At that time there is no money, the tenants cannot hire an expert and cannot continue. According to the Minister, is this an acceptable concept of the corporation in the context of the current consultation law? And how, according to the Minister, should that question be answered under the new law? We look forward to the Minister's answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u15	Mr. Chairman. In 1994, a little while ago, as spokesperson of the Dutch Parliamentary Group of the Party of European Socialists, I was allowed to deal with the law on the reduction of the balance sheet financial support for housing or the so-called brutal operation of housing. You can imagine that it is a special time for me now, twenty years after the independence of the housing corporations, to be able to re-enter the institutions admitted to the review law as spokesperson, but now of the PvdA group in the First Chamber. It was then a week-long intensive debate with the Secretary of State Enneus Heerma and, after the entry of Purple I, with Secretary of State Dick Tommel. Both are politically responsible for the independence of the social rental sector. With this technical operation, the government freed itself and the social rental sector from a complicated web of residential subsidies and capital loans. This involved a multiple of commitments made per project linked to the construction and operation of new buildings and renovations at the time of the reconstruction and urban renewal. The liberalization of this vast bureaucracy was undoubtedly a blessing both for the government and for the social rental sector. The political debates therefore focused not so much on the technical and financial operation, but on the question of its possible effects. Was the financially independent social rental sector as a public sector sufficiently embedded in a good, clear legal framework? Was the public task sufficiently defined and therefore sufficiently anchored? Was there a balance in the relationship between the municipality and the individual housing corporations? Did the tenants have any influence on the policy to be pursued by their own housing corporation? Last but not least, was financial supervision guaranteed in one of the most sensitive sectors? Between the government and various parliamentary groups, there was a great division at that time as to whether and, if so, how the housing corporations as a public sector should be embedded in a good and transparent legal framework. I dare say that within the social housing sector there was a deep repulsion against the influence of politics on its own functioning. In the sector, the ideal of a self-regulatory housing sector had gradually emerged; a sector which within the concept of "social enterprise" itself, so passionately expressed by Aedes president Willem van Leeuwen, would be responsible for housing. The government would be remote. Politics was still allowed to formulate goals for living, but the question of how to take care of living this public task, with in particular the living of the lower income groups to give substance to the social rental sector itself, was in the future. In 1994, the government's short-term outcome was particularly important. The brutality of subsidies and loans, in addition to ending a large and complex bureaucracy, would also reduce the EMU deficit in technical terms. A fundamental debate on a legal framework would prevent an agreement on the brutal operation with the social rental sector, and so the magic spell became "trusting the sector'. The two Secretary of State therefore defended the need for political confidence in the sector. A call for regulation The embedding into a good public system... was an expression of distrust and was seen as politically incorrect. Nevertheless, the House of Representatives strongly insisted that a proper legal framework for the social rental sector should be provided. I would remind you that the debates on legislative proposal 23817 on 6 April 1995 were concluded with the adoption of no less than seven motions, all from the hands of Machteld Versnel-Schmitz of D66 and yours truly. All these motions concerned the creation of a sound legal framework, aiming at checks and balances that are appropriate for a public sector; a framework that has a high level of responsibility towards society and is financial manager of an unimaginably large social capacity. I cannot, of course, fail to point out here the motion for a resolution on item No. 31, which declares that "in consultation with the General Court, an independent institute will be set up, which will be responsible for the financial supervision of authorised institutions and the associated other legal forms." The report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Housing Companies and the present Revision Act allows institutions to use housing almost the same texts and explanations as were at the heart of the debate. But things have not been done and so, twenty years later, we can now take stock of the autonomy of a public sector. There is no doubt that many beautiful and special results have been achieved in the policy area of residence. The Netherlands can be proud of the fact that its cities, but also the housing of lower income groups, are at a high level in general terms. We have decent housing and no no-goareas here.This is the result of a joint effort by the political and social rental sector, and thus a great achievement. But when we look at the self-regulation of the social rental sector and also the supervision of the government, the outcome is downright negative. The systematic lack of an adequate system of checks and balances within a legal framework in which the roles between political leaders and the social rental sector are well defined has contributed to a series of incidents, excesses and mismanagement. The findings of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Housing Corporations on this matter are clear. The result is that there is a material loss of social capacity. The price of this failure due to the mutual solidarity of housing corporations within the system has actually been passed on to the tenants. As a result, they cannot benefit from a more moderate rent policy, suffer the burden of the shortage of social housing and also run the risk of being sold to another private investor as a result of a clean-up. It is actually cynical how managers' own failures are passed on to the target group for which they claim to work. In moral terms, this is the bankruptcy of a public sector. This sector has therefore lost public confidence and, in fact, there is no political party that really identifies itself with this part of our public system in the old-fashioned way. And that's actually a shame. The reaction is clear. In the present legislative proposal, Parliament is doing what I believe has been left behind for years, i.e. embedding a public sector within a real legal framework, which should ensure that the shoemaker keeps up this time. Not only can the legislative proposal be seen as a loss of a sector which has failed to fulfil its own self-regulation ambition, but it is certainly also a sad conclusion to a misplaced political confidence in the self-regulation of the social rental sector in 1994/1995.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u16	I welcome the fact that Mr Duijvestein is going back to the period in which this was created. I'd like to give him my heartfelt thanks. He has been passionately involved in the development of the housing sector from the outset. With that, the circle seems to be almost complete. Mr Duivetteijn has rightly referred to a number of motions which have already been tabled during the period 1994-1998, i.e. after the brutal operation and under the new system. What is the point of never having a follow-up to this? We have had a parliamentary survey and it is only now that that thought will come back on the table. We've been 20 years. Mr Duijvesteijn said that there is no political party that has taken this on board. If a motion is passed, you also expect it to be carried out. That didn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u17	That didn't happen one-on-one. However, there have been constant repairs to the system. In that sense, there was an on-going process. The political parties were often strongly interwoven with the social rental sector, including in terms of staff. There were a lot of people's unions. The distance between many political parties and the social sector may not have been large enough. Part of it was also about opportunism. A ruler can only succeed if he concludes a coalition with a public sector that has to realize a lot of its performance. As alderman, I've been through two situations. In the first period, we were in charge. In the second period we were dependent. When we were in charge, we had money and quotas. The municipality then had the lead and the corporations were actually implementing organisations. In self-employment, the corporations received a lot of money. They didn't have to work for their own money. They got that bag of money at once instead of being paid in annual instalments. As a result, the positions have fundamentally changed. The checks and balances were important. I can say from my own experience that the alderman no longer exists. There's only one asking party left. In that sense, this revision law is very important. This will make a substantial correction to the structure of the social rental sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u18	Thank you for this historic review. Mr Duivetteijn can lean on a double experience as a local driver. My question was more focused on another aspect. An approved motion calls for a proper supervisory framework, but it does not seem that this has been achieved. What's the cause of that? This is something that everyone can care about. It is only more than 20 years after this major change in the system has been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u19	I could now continue my speech because I wanted to say that perhaps the most important lesson today is that we realise that what happened to the social rental sector is not unique. We must realise that there used to be a public sector that was strongly linked to the citizens' initiative from which it came; that was the basis. The result was that there was an internal correction, but with the removal, professionalisation and institutionalisation we see that the citizen has lost the initiative. Therefore, if politics is placed at a great distance, as is the case with the social rental sector, the public sector is, in my opinion, in fact footless. The necessary contradiction has disappeared and in this vacuum we see that "the doctor has become more important than the patient." The institute, the professional's own dynamics, becomes more decisive for the direction of development than the social task. In essence, therefore, it is a question of how we in our country can restore the relationship between politics and government on the one hand and the public sector on the other. As far as I am concerned, this is the core. If, in the future too, public tasks are carried out by private organisations in accordance with our Dutch tradition, their public embedding and direction are essential to the public authority and its public control. The special feature of the public sector is that it fulfils its task in the physical space between government and market. This brings with it a completely unique dynamic. In the case of the social rental sector, there is even a target group that has no choice but to rent. Where you can still change insurance in the care, there is no real alternative within the housing system for low-income tenants. It is precisely this dependence that requires service rather than an attitude as a market-based entrepreneur. The market thinking of many of the social rental professionals has alienated the sector over the last twenty years from a part of politics, citizens and its own tenants. Many of the internal debates that I was allowed to experience are hardly yet about the intrinsic objectives of what was once an idealistic sector. The sector, the company, the value of the property and the strategic positions seem to be becoming increasingly central. The institute has become more and more an objective within itself. Those directors of housing corporations who advocate retirement are the ultimate illustration of this. In my opinion, therefore, the crisis in this part of the public sector is above all a moral crisis, in which the importance and development of the institute has become more dominant than the public objectives. This analysis also appears in the report of the Committee of Inquiry. The debacle of the social rental sector is therefore a tough lesson for politics, parliament and the sector. I would be happy if we could learn from that. Therefore, this somewhat general reflection. It would be good if we looked again at the objective and what the organising principles of a public sector should be. A return from the social rental sector to the heart of its public mission is crucial. The approved institution is by definition not a commercial sector! It fulfils a strictly public task and should therefore organise its services in such a way that it focuses on those activities which cannot or will not be carried out either by the public authorities or by the market. The social rental sector is therefore not an investor in real estate, not a real estate company, but an association or foundation that provides services that are primarily social through the housing and living environment. This must of course be financially justified, but in this case citizens are particularly at the centre of the tenants of the housing corporations and the residents of often vulnerable neighbourhoods. The scale of an organisation and the degree of professionalisation are derived from the objective itself. At the heart of the matter is the work on public targets, formulated by the Empire and municipalities, a serviceable attitude towards the tenants, full transparency and, not insignificantly, organisations that must be essentially democratic. In this sense, Mr Schouwenaar's suggestion for a WOB for the semi-public sector is interesting. The question is whether the ingredients are present, with this law. Like many people involved in living in the Netherlands, we have been anxiously looking forward to the conclusions of the parliamentary committee of inquiry into the future of our housing system. The Committee outlines three variants: (a) the organisation of social housing by the market; (b) the organisation of social housing by the public authorities; and (c) the organisation of social housing by citizens. Although we would like to move on to another housing system, we appreciate the fact that the parliamentary committee of inquiry has given priority to repairing the legal framework of the current social rental sector. It is, as the Committee of Inquiry points out in its report, a matter of 'ordering matters' first. It inevitably focuses on a certain restoration of the historically grown public system. However, institutions authorised under the Revision Act run the risk of being or becoming standstill. In particular, it orders what has not been or has not been sufficiently organized in the past. In it, a "return to core tasks" can be read as an undesirable containment of a real estate sector that wanted to spread its wings. However, you can also read it as the rehabilitation of the original ideas of a public sector. I choose that last interpretation. I believe that our housing system benefits from a social housing sector that focuses primarily on its social task. This concerns both the housing of policy target groups and the living and living conditions of these target groups. This is more complex than ever, because the transformation into a multi-ethnic society requires more attention to the social challenge facing the sector. A society in which different cultures live together begins in the neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods. In my opinion, bringing harmony into this process falls within the core tasks of the corporations. It is up to the social rental sector to rediscover itself as a public sector, precisely in view of this challenge. Against this background, the PvdA Group is therefore positive about the present legislative proposal. The legal framework that is now being presented to us should have been there before now. Now we are, rightly, repairing the checks and balances between the social rental sector, the government and the partners in the field, including the municipal government, the tenant organisations and the people who are part of the target group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u20	I think this is a wonderful speech that shows the history of twenty to thirty years of housing in the Netherlands. I have, of course, also followed the survey and read the committee's report. There have been major incidents with real excrement. However, Mr Duivetteijn's speech suggests that the whole sector did not succeed. I would like that impression to be somewhat nuanced. Especially in the last sentence sounded a bit by that it was all not good or not good. I'd like to distance myself from that. In the past, I have seen very good examples in urban renewal and the major cities policy of corporations that did take responsibility, not only for housing and the maintenance of that home, but also for its wider viability. It seems appropriate to me that we should concentrate on the question of where it went wrong and what we should correct now. We must not give rise to the suggestion that it was all sorrow and torment. I expect Mr Duivetteijn to agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u21	I have made a very clear distinction between the performance that has been achieved and self-regulation. Of course, fantastic achievements have been achieved for the reconstruction and urban renewal. There are billions invested in this sector and many ideals have been fulfilled. I remember that very well from my urban renewal period. I have literally said that we have good things for each other in the Netherlands and that we do not have no go areas. However, self-regulation has completely failed and that is, of course, what this is all about. Fortunately, the fact that many corporations have organised themselves well and behaved properly within the framework of self-regulation is of course fine. At the time, the principle of social enterprise was strongly promoted ideologically by Van Leeuwen, the then Aedes chairman: we take responsibility for living in the Netherlands and politics must remain at a distance. We simply have to note that this has really failed. That is not my conclusion, but also the conclusion of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, in all intensity. Of course, the criticism may be a little sharper. I would like to deal with two more points, namely a few parts of the law and something about the near future. When it comes to the law, we find it incredibly important that what I call the socialisation of the social rental sector. In this sense, it is very important that the relationship with the tenants will be strengthened. It's actually very sad and unfortunate that that relationship is so thin. We think it is important, and we would very much like to support it, for corporations to focus on the area within one housing region, so that you really get a direct link between a housing company and the people who live in a housing region, such as a municipality linked to a border area. That anchoring is extremely important for the focus. In this sense, we do find defuses something that should be pursued, albeit in a decent way. But that socialization is essential. We would therefore welcome the change in the concept of 'clients' within the social rental sector to 'our target group', 'our tenants' and 'our members', which could restore the public character of the sector. This also fits the return to the essence, the right of the corporations to exist. The issue of SGEIs and non-DAEB has already been discussed. At times it is of course good to carry out certain activities that are necessary, for example in an urban renewal or restructuring area, when the market does not occur. But we support the basic idea that the sector deals with these core tasks and focuses on them. It's not a commercial...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u22	I would like to go back a bit, because we are going to the other subject very quickly. I can follow Mr Duivetteijn's whole speech and even embrace it on certain points. I pointed out theory and practice. I have mentioned a municipality like Amersfoort as an example, which is currently implementing its total housing policy with two housing corporations. If you just follow the rules, Amersfoort would no longer be able to do so because those housing corporations have to withdraw in their core area, so where they realize most homes. That would mean that Amersfoort, at least temporarily if you claim to be in favour of defuse, would be out of corporations. In theory, that could mean that you haven't got your housing policy in order for a number of years. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u23	First of all, it is not proposed to defuse, unfortunately. As far as we are concerned, the Minister should be more radical and should actually be. The strange thing is that in the social housing sector there is an incredible increase in scale that has no rational basis. Many corporations have only 1,000, 2,000, 3,000, 5,000 or 6,000 homes and function fantastic, even in the big cities, except for the driver's salary, of course, which in turn is inappropriately high, but quite aside. Defuse could mean that more units would be created on a tailor-made basis. For this, it is necessary, for example, for the sector to organise solidarity in a different way. Then you come to the question of whether the sector is a real estate company or a linked organisation that performs a public interest as an authorised institution for the benefit of a very specific group in society. Of course, it cannot be that a city would run out of housing corporations, but the question is how can we organise it in such a way that there is another direct contact. In my opinion, that is essential. In Almere myself, I have only been able to experience, in brackets, that the relationship with the Alliance and Ymere was generally good and that there was a direct contact at the time they were still housed in Almere. When they then began to centralize, all this was put at a distance and suddenly a whole interlayer came along. Now I personally didn't have that much trouble; I don't want to meet everyone, but that aside. That's my answer. With regard to SGEIs and non-DAEBs, referring to my text for a more detailed explanation, I say to the Minister, we support, in essence, the basic idea of concentration. However, corporations must be able to invest in improving the viability of vulnerable neighbourhoods. We will soon see that the market players often do not operate there. Then that space must be there. The question is how supervision takes shape. There will now be one Authority housing corporations. Embedding, independence and the link to the people's housing challenge are essential. Finally, when it comes to individual issues, we are very concerned about the unfocused sale of the social housing stock. That's a really big concern. We know that when a private investor wants to take over social housing, you have to trust that in advance. I say this not from a negative basic point of view, but from the experience of how the market works, namely that after ten or fifteen years investors rejected and paid off good returns, and then again made a substantial amount of money. So an investor taking over existing assets has the main aim of making capital gains at a later date. We are very concerned about this. That is why we are constantly asking whether the system as we know it is not simply outdated in the way we operate. Then I'll get to the last part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u24	I apologize for interrupting Mr Duivetteijn, because he just started a higher gear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u25	That's just for time's sakes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u26	He is not very positive about the transfer of ownership from the corporation sector to the private sector. I assume he'll be talking about regulated homes. He also mentioned this at the beginning of his speech one of the bad consequences for tenants as a result of the company's missteps. I wonder why he is so concerned about this and what these concerns consist of. Because there is also a whole range of guarantees provided in the law when selling regulated homes to a resident tenant or to a fellow corporation? If it is a private individual, there must be an explanation of the behaviour and a Bibob test and it must be stated in the performance agreements. So this is surrounded by a lot of safeguards. In addition, the sale will generate money that will enable new investments to be made in suitable housing. So I don't understand why it would make the housing of the people worse. A concrete example is Patricia, who has now taken over 5,700 homes from Vestia. Let's be glad that Patricia did, because Vestia had to be helped out of trouble. I also read this in the Aedes-Magazine, I think we all read it, because everyone quotes from it that Patricia is overflowing with good intentions to meet the tenants in a pleasant way. So I do not understand Mr Duivetteijn's concerns very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u27	The concerns are twofold. 1. What is the view of the future of the system? 2. What's the practice? If we look at the houses that have been sold in the past by the ABP and the PGGM that are private investors, investors, we see that that property has become highly fragmented and that its management has become problematic. So you're actually creating your own urban renewal assignment. That brings me to another rather fundamental subject. We have neatly divided everything into rent and purchase in the Netherlands. Those are two different worlds. When we look at buying, everything is individual and the risks are also individually defined. The big question is how to use the qualities of the social rental sector, that protective structure, to create comparable conditions when transferring property when it is owned by institutional parties. So we're mainly concerned about the unfocused outpouring, speculation and profit making. We are not talking about the period Mr Schouwenaar is talking about. There is a certain level of protection for that. There's a rent bill. It's about a look-through in time and the question of what's gonna happen next. In the Netherlands, we can already identify many places that are problematic, simply because of the outpouring of property.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u28	I have another supplementary question. There is also talk, thought and written about a large trade-out of regulated homes which are now privately owned with some more expensive homes over the liberalisation limit, which are now owned by the corporation sector, so that people can move better in an area where they are best at home. Should I understand from the words of Mr Duivetteijn that he considers such an exchange to be positive?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u29	We are talking about a sector that is incredibly capital-intensive. The real estate value is 285 billion and the debt position is 90 billion. In other words, a great deal of capital can be released in this sector at the time the assets are transferred, in whatever form. Nor are we fundamentally opposed to the fact that the sector is becoming more concentrated than it is at present. The sector has become so large, it has already been mentioned, because we have set ourselves an objective in the context of the elimination of housing shortages and of reconstruction and urban renewal. That's what corporations have been the vehicle for, and that's why the sector is so big. If you literally link it to the target group, it could be smaller. The question is, how can you do that intelligently? So we are not necessarily opposed to the transfer of property; we are only very concerned that we do not throw the child away with the bath water. We can show in many places in our own country that in fact new problems have already arisen, particularly in the post-war neighbourhoods, where there has been talk of exorcising property and not creating a new structure. I see that I have convinced Mr Schouwenaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u30	This is really an interesting theme. With my party political background, I do not object a priori to the marketing of social housing, as the owner also continues to behave like a good housekeeper and the rules are respected, no matter what legal remedies are available to enforce it. I would therefore prefer to stay a little away from too much moral judgment. The word "outpoken" does not always have a pleasant sound. I'd almost say, give me names and numbers. Let us therefore see where it threatens to derail and then ask the Minister what to do about it. I read that at the moment in the better housing segments even German and English private companies have come forward to buy large-scale houses, which does not necessarily mean that they are not good family fathers. But at the moment when an individual buyer then makes a pot of it or an institutional investor does it solely because of profit expectations and leaves nothing to be done about existing legislation, it also comes down to supervision, sanctions and remedies to turn that behavior into good behavior. Does Mr Duijvestein share that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u31	Governing is forward-looking. That is certainly the case when it comes to housing, housing or the layout of the city. It's as simple as that. I call it the Painting District. In the beginning, that was a decent neighborhood. The Bijlmermeer was also known as a decent neighborhood. There was no question about that. In the course of time, all kinds of processes have taken place. We all know the cottage milkers; we all know the process in the Bijlmermeer. The ageing process makes neighborhoods vulnerable. Why are homes posted by investors? The answer to that is simple. It's a financial reason. The return goes down, the maintenance is getting closer and so it's going to be "you can say it's very sophisticated," but you can also say it's being dumped. They're financial motives. It is perfectly normal in that world to make a second battle after ten years of exploitation. That's a very normal way of thinking in that world, only it's the question which city we have after that. That's what this is about. Then I come to the final issue, namely self-determination and self-management. Does this law offer a new future for the social housing sector and the social housing system? In our view, a modern housing system is, in principle, property-neutral. There is no room for an artificial separation between buying and renting, for a distinction between the social classes, between independence and dependence and between self-determination and no access to control. Citizens make up their own minds about how they want to live and are given the opportunity to find an appropriate form for this. That can be rent or buy, as long as it is a truly self-made choice. Such a free choice for a home, a neighborhood and a neighborhood will therefore be a positive choice. In addition, you want this positive choice to lead to a greater willingness to invest in the management of the home and living environment by the citizen himself. For me, the Schilderswijk in The Hague is still a striking example. There we are dealing with 12,000 homes, 20% of which are residential properties and 80% are managed by three corporations. Of those 12,000, one corporation, namely Haag Wonen, owns 7,403 properties. And Vestia, the second, is no longer able to invest properly. It is crazy, neighborhoods like the Schilderswijk would benefit if the residents were given more co-responsibility for management. Remkes would say: they are Eastern European states. As a result of mergers, this was done in this way. We are talking about a district that is bigger than many Dutch cities, with one dominant landlord. You can see that there are hardly any substantial initiatives for self-management in that area, other than the fragmentation of individual homes. The battle has not yet been struck, but social renewal is also, and perhaps right, that the citizen is given responsibility for his own home and living and living environment. The core of a future social housing system is freedom of choice and the right to self-management. To enable self-determination and self-management within the home system, we must free ourselves from our traditional ways of working and thinking. This calls for a cultural change with the Dutch people's house. It must separate itself from institutional thinking. Together with active citizens, this must be possible. When it comes to citizens' initiatives in the field of living, there are two developments that can have a new meaning and that is the right to self-management, the right to manage, in the case of complex social housing and the transfer of housing to the housing corporation of incumbent tenants. In the written questions we also raised the right to manage. In England there is a legally anchored system that allows tenants to take care of the maintenance of their own complex. Self-management for tenants is attractive, because it allows residents to keep living within certain conditions more affordable and liveable. The experience in England with this is encouraging. We would like to make such a principle possible for tenants in the Dutch social rental sector. We would therefore like the cabinet to legally lay down this right to self-government for incumbent tenants. My group welcomes the fact that the debate on the landlord tax has at least led to the inclusion of housing co-operatives in the social housing system, but the inclusion of housing co-operatives in the law is not enough. Professionals in the social rental sector are still finding it difficult to distance themselves from the idea that "their" tenants want to be self-employed. Here, too, there is still a major cultural battle to take place. In order to bring this culture together, it is important that the Minister and his ministry also actively promote the modernisation of our housing system, not by imposing the co-operation of housing from above, but by actively seeking the positive power of municipalities, housing corporations and tenant organisations. I have found that there is a willingness in the cities to cooperate if there is a joint programme in which exemplary projects can be initiated. In this way, experiences can be exchanged and barriers can be reduced. From my own practice in Almere I know that with the system "I'm building affordable in Almere" there is a financing method that fits very well with the transfer of existing rental homes to incumbent tenants, including tenants who are normally not eligible for a mortgage. The existing 50% discount scheme is a very good starting point for this. In fact, the corporations will then be co-financed by these new housing cooperatives. Not only will money be released, but at the same time greater involvement of citizens themselves in the immediate living and living environment. I think it is important that today, as a Chamber, we send a signal to the social rental sector and the cabinet that we really want to anchor this as an essential part of the public system. The second point is living, care and services. In fact, we believe that we should move away from the very strict separation of living, care and services. Especially now that the decentralisation towards the municipalities has taken shape or is about to take shape, it must be possible to overcome this division. I can talk very much about this, but for the sake of time I will not. For people who have a high income and who organise themselves, it is quite natural that living, care and services have been brought together in full. The strange thing is that we have public services and we see them as separate developments. For the sake of clarity, I refer to my text.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u32	It is not that easy to get away, I say to Mr Duivetteijn, at this point of living and caring. This cabinet has dealt with the separation of living and care due to the lack of transparency of costs. I support Mr Duivetteijn when he says that living and caring for people are physically impossible to separate. If you build life-proof, you could also build so that older people can stay in places where growing care can be provided, from home care to community care, without getting all kinds of difficult processes with buildings that we are closing down, care homes and nursing homes, where very few people really want to stay. I think it would be much more interesting to start a discussion in the longer term, or at least now, about the removal of walls between pensions, money we spend on care and money we spend on living, without suggesting in this debate that we should remove the separation between living and care. It is precisely in order to achieve much greater transparency that we have achieved this separation. So I do not agree with Mr Duivetteijn on this point, but I ask him whether he would not find it much more interesting to look for semi-permeable walls in the three pillars we know in the Netherlands, while concrete walls stand between these pillars or columns. In the long term, this might also provide a more future for the changing composition of the population, the double ageing population, the hazing and much more creative thinking about how much money you want to live well for later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u33	Of course. I also use this debate to reflect, as it is called. In this sense, we are considering this issue. I also hope that the Minister will go reflectively a step further than the exact answer to the questions relating to the law. We also use the moment, let us be honest. There are very different levels of care. Why don't you go to the Benoordenhout and walk into any residential building? In general, people over the age of 55 live there. They have organized for themselves that there is a restaurant downstairs and that there is a pedicure. They have also ensured that doctors can be summoned, that there is surveillance and that domestic help is provided. In short, there is an integral package, but they do live independently. It is fascinating that we live in the Netherlands and have strictly separated care. The social rental sector is made up of landlords of homes, with exceptions. Furthermore, these landlords remain out of the picture. For the future of the social rental sector, it is incredibly important for an integrated package to be offered. There's a lot of ways to do that. This does not necessarily have to be done by the social rental sector itself. In the past, there have been forms in which an integrated package could be delivered. Now they have indeed become two separate worlds. I do not wish to conceal the fact that I had a discussion with Secretary of State Martin van Rijn on how to achieve the integration of housing and care at the basic level. The same applies to pensions. There are also opportunities to take steps. So far it's all very static because people with lower incomes are being cared for and the departments have made separate boxes. It has to be justified by department. Only, fortunately, life is not organized in a departmental manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u34	I'll back you up on that theorem. It's an interesting debate. We do not have enough debates of this kind here. We are not looking for links through sectors to answer questions that are coming to us very quickly. I call it the ageing population and longer independent living. We have separated the costs of living and caring, because we wanted much more clarity about what these costs mean for a citizen, regardless of the income of the citizen. It's everybody I care about. Like you, I want people with lower incomes to be able to live permanently with additional services in the neighbourhood in the long term. The transfer of district nursing to municipalities is a nice step to make this possible. I don't want any intransigence in costs. Otherwise, accommodation costs will be charged on the cost of care which will be very high or care costs will be "verschmerzt" in rents, so you can no longer trace whether the rents are still based on the cost. I would much rather have a different approach to the debate. I share the analysis, but I seek the solution in breaking the pillars between retirement, care and living. To this end, I would like to find new answers to the questions that many citizens face, both low-income citizens and high-income citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u35	I have the specific question in my text as to whether the Minister is prepared, together with Secretary of State Van Rijn, to consider, in the light of this reflection, how this integration can be achieved in a creative way. Then I'm mainly talking about what's important to people in everyday life. I understand the concerns you express very well and that transparency is desirable. I'll see what happens in the neighborhood. There are no separate circuits. We can always use youth aid as an example. The whole world, all the professionals are gonna collapse there, apart from each other. This scare is becoming increasingly dramatic in living and caring, as ageing is becoming a more important aspect. You also need to open the assets of the corporations to a number of activities that are not currently identified in that way. In my opinion, this capital is present. It is strange that we are so statically thinking about this whole thing. If you transfer a lot of homes to housing cooperatives, a lot of money will be released that you can reinvest socially. We do not, however, do so. GroenLinks spokesperson spoke about the rents. However, these are mainly determined by the way in which we organized liquidity and the way in which we made it non-dynamic. There is still so much to gain in terms of creativity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u36	Mr. Van Boxtel, for the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u37	It's worth talking about. I would also like to hear the Minister's response to this analysis. I welcome Mr Duivetteijn's plea for a sector-wide search for new concepts. The housing cooperative can be a very good vehicle. However, I am putting my finger on the restoration of the separation between living and care costs that has now finally been achieved. I sensed that wish at the beginning of Mr Duivetteijn's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u38	Mr Van Boxtel is now giving me too much intelligence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u39	No, we've known each other for a long time and I weigh every word that Mr Duivetteijn says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u40	Yeah, but when you get older, it gets... I share that concern, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u41	I'm almost sorry we don't have an interruption microphone there. The legislative proposal now before us is strict in the sense that fine initiatives that have been very creatively taken up by housing corporations are almost impossible in some respects. My best example is what happens about 400 meters behind my house. I live in the Veenkoloniën where many people with very low incomes live. They cannot afford to live in such an apartment complex that Mr Duivetteijn has just spoken about. There was a small nursing home, an annex of a larger house in a large place. A housing corporation has built two apartment complexes there, one with rental houses and one with properties for sale. It is one project and with the profits on the properties the foundation costs of the rental houses could be reduced. As a result, people who depend on rent surcharge can rent an apartment there. This is almost made impossible by this law. That's too bad. I would be very pleased if there were some sort of experimental space somewhere that would enable initiatives which Mr Duivetteijn is referring to and which I have just mentioned to be possible and can be judged on their targets.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u42	Of course, I agree with that. I would like the Minister to reflect on what we have now discussed in general. The revision law is necessary, it is fantastic that he is there and that the correction is taking place, but the day after the entry into force there will be discussion about the future of the housing system and different parties will have different views on it. I'm convinced of that. The election programme of the VVD will be very different in terms of the future of the social rental sector from that of the Labour Party. That is understandable, but I see in the law the risk of a standstill and too strict restoration, perhaps in such a way that the result is different than reality ever looked. The question now is how we can work on a new future at the same time. Those openings need to be created. I share the view that you should be able to experiment, that you should create space and that it shouldn't be too rigid.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u43	Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u44	Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. Finally, I would like to raise one important issue relating to the revision law and, in particular, its scope. That is something that is oddly underexplained with a certain amount of regularity, namely that one target group in the social rental sector is also the influx of asylum seekers into our country. At the moment, we have around 28,000 people in asylum centres. Most of them are in a procedure and, of course, accept the limited housing opportunities. Of those 28,000 people, however, there are currently no less than 12,000 so-called licence holders. These are asylum seekers who have officially completed the procedure and who have been admitted to our country. The law requires a marketing authorisation holder to be placed in a regular residence within 14 weeks. I understand that out of the 12,000 already about 5,000 licence holders have been waiting for a regular home for more than 14 weeks, while 1,000 of them have been waiting for their homes for more than six months. In combination with the time they are in the asylum centre, this is actually a very undesirable situation, both for the functioning of the asylum centres themselves, because they are full and cannot function properly, and for the people themselves, who are often in a difficult housing situation with children. How is it that, in a country in which we have a social housing sector with 2.4 million social housing in its portfolio, it is structurally stagnating with the placement of asylum seekers? "Rules are rules" is a widely heard and unsophisticated statement, which I will not use soon, but you can expect the government to respect fixed deadlines. Because we are talking about a target group and a core task of the social rental sector. I would like the Minister to address the current situation within those asylum seekers' centres and, in particular, the question of how it is possible not to place them in good time. Finally, I would like to hear what he intends to do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u45	Mr. Chairman. The laws before us have come a long way. When in the spring of 1994 the housing corporations agreed to the bruter operation, the operation Heerma, which has already been mentioned, it was already clear that the supervision and task of the corporations required further legislation and regulation: the public embedding. With wisdom afterwards we see indeed how necessary this was, as corporations soon began to understand their independence as a tilting to the market; they went commercial. This was in line with a time when liberalisation and market forces seemed to be the solution to the problems of the government. In the meantime, fortunately, we are looking at this more nuancedly, especially when it became clear how much part-interest and commercial interests could run with semi-public institutions such as the corporations. Now, where necessary, we restore political primacy and independent supervision. Corporates work with socially-bound assets and the corporate sector also needs further regulation, regulation and proper supervision. The parliamentary inquiry of the House of Representatives, which I only have to mention here, made that clear. These laws are a final piece of legislation, or perhaps we should say, a new starting point for the future of housing. Our group shares the principles of this law: the corporations go back to their core task, a smaller scale and a clearer area of their own, namely affordable housing for people with a small stock exchange, a division with commercial activities and the creation of a new supervisor, independently of the Ministry. The Law on Standards also addresses the income of corporate directors and, in the light of recent reports on the addition of income, this is certainly one of the cultural changes that need to be made. We support this direction of policy. These laws have had extensive parliamentary treatment in the Lower House. My group does not need to repeat it here. That actually limits me to my task. I do have a few more questions, because it is clear that there will be diffuse areas that will require the steering hand of a minister in the future. I would like to mention three areas where that occurs. I shall reflect on that and ask the Minister's response. First, there is much to do about the separation between SGEIs and non-DAEBs. It is clear that not everything can be cut with scissors. Under SGEI, the core tasks of an authorised institution have been identified. The Minister wants to ensure that this core task is restored, so that, for example, building schools or projects can be covered by the heading 'liability of life'. However, corporations do have room for their own development task, in consultation with municipalities, of course, and this can take place on the border areas between SGEIs and non-DAEB. This includes new housing concepts and the like. We had the conversation about that a moment ago, and I support that, including the question of whether there is an experimental space. Allowed institutions may support activities of tenants where this promotes social cohesion. How far does this and how much policy space do corporations have? My group would like to hear a sketch from the Minister for the Future of Corporations, precisely at this interface of SGEIs and non-DAEB and also with the possibility of moving, flexibilising and experimenting. I would like to put another question to you because the division between SGEIs and non-DAEB has a background in European rules on State aid. The treatment in the Lower House showed that there is a broad political desire to see housing as national policy, especially given the history and social anchoring of corporations in our country. This also calls for a separate national policy area. I'd like a response from the Minister to that. Secondly, as far as my group is concerned, there is an important discussion about the involvement of tenants in corporations. When many corporations became foundations and companies, tenants lost a lot of influence. It will be said that this development was inevitable, as a result of the demise of the Netherlands, but the turn-off that was taken did not focus on more commitment and responsibility, but on efficiency and market thinking. Citizens came to stand at a distance. We already have a lot of analyses on this at home. In many places in our society, there is now a call for more influence from citizens, a call that follows on from a new look at the principle of freedom of choice. That must not only be the freedom to leave somewhere, exit, but also to have something to say, a voice. In this light, the proposal to support residential cooperatives from corporations is an interesting one. This is the honoring of a positive wish from tenants. The question will be whether this is enough, given what is now laid down in the law on this matter, but we will have to wait and see. In any case, corporations are turning more towards society, and we want to strongly support that. Important amendments were adopted in the House of Representatives on the subject of tenant input. I would like to hear the Minister's view on this point of influence of tenants on corporate decisions. How will this issue develop in the future? Thirdly, there are questions about the relationship between corporations and municipalities. On this point too, there is a certain diffuseness, which has already been mentioned in previous contributions. Corporates and municipalities must work together. They are expected to work intensively with each other, but it is not entirely clear what the fixed instruments will be for this. There are non-compulsory elements in this cooperation, such as whether or not to develop a residential vision and whether or not to inform each other. The VNG believes that this is too diffuse for municipalities, but I would like to hear the Minister's views on this, even now that we have the law as it came from the Lower House since December. Can the Minister give a clear picture of his intentions with regard to this cooperation between corporations and municipalities? My final comment concerns the new supervisor, the Authority Housing Corporations. After the turn of the parliamentary inquiry and an amendment in the House of Representatives, he was given a somewhat different place than in the Minister's proposals. On this point, we would like to hear the Minister's views on this new proposal once again, especially since this minister is also leading the larger operation to bring back as many Zbos as possible under ministerial responsibility. The letter of 5 February shows that in that new Authority Housing Corporations two elements are given the full pound, on the one hand independence of supervision and, on the other hand, full ministerial responsibility. How does one relate to the other? We look forward with interest to answering our questions and further reflection on this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u46	Mr. Chairman. A third of the Dutch population lives in a house managed by a housing corporation. The Netherlands has therefore, relatively speaking, one of the largest social rental sectors in the world. It is therefore understandable that reform in such a sector is not an easy task, all the more so because reform has a direct impact on a large number of people. We have also noticed this in this Chamber. I remember a very difficult debate in December 2013, in which the landlord's tax almost led to the loss of the housing agreement. Fortunately this could be prevented, partly thanks to a letter and the embrace of the idea of creating a housing cooperative; I will come back to that later. Despite these obstacles, my group believes, especially after the parliamentary survey, that structural changes in this sector are urgently needed. My group therefore welcomes the fact that this government is taking steps with this proposal to get the housing sector back on track. I am looking at Mr Kuiper, who has led a major investigation here to find a new balance between full market dominance and the question of what needs to be more public. Thanks to its size, the housing sector has a wide variety of interests and interest groups. In order to achieve a balanced, fair and cost-effective policy, all parties should have a say in policy-making. However, this has often not been the case in the past. My group is therefore pleased that the balance in this legislative proposal is being sought by giving the tenants, in particular, more say. I hope that this will be a form of participation that not only brings back the romantic desire for the past; I look at Mr Duivetteijn with a slanted eye, because of course I also remember the boards of the old housing cooperatives, which were soon told about the one gentleman with the matted cigar who was allowed to talk but also did not know what it was about. That's not what we're talking about. I am not talking about a restoration to that time, but about new forms of participation and involvement. The presentation of members of the Supervisory Board and the Complaints Committee and the possibility of consulting with the Minister and the Housing Corporations give the tenants a better negotiating position. The proposed housing co-operative also allows tenants to develop new initiatives to improve their housing and their living environment. As I mentioned in my contribution to the debate in 2013, my group believes that housing co-operation can be an interesting addition to our housing system. I therefore support Mr Duivetteijn's call for a deepening and possibly an action programme. Perhaps this will lead to a motion. The new initiatives come not only from the tenants. The housing corporations themselves also come up with ideas to fulfil their core tasks more efficiently. An example is the conversion of vacant office buildings into housing for target groups, such as older people and students. Mr De Vries just gave a nice example from East Groningen. There are also very good examples, but of course there are many examples of places where too little is happening. My group is curious to see how the Minister is looking at the initiatives to convert empty office buildings into homes for target groups such as the elderly and students. Does he think that enough is being done? Are the initiatives profitable? And in what time will large-scale initiatives be launched? It remains a curious phenomenon that on the one hand there is a stagnant housing market, while on the other hand there is a dramatic vacancy in office buildings, especially in the Randstad. So there is still too little matching of the surplus in one domain to alleviate the deficit in the other. I come to the reserves of the housing corporations. It is understandable that housing corporations need a financial buffer in order not to have to fall back on a guarantee fund or public support at the time of emergency. However, it cannot be the intention that housing corporations should build up very large assets, whereas that money should actually be invested for their core tasks. My group would like to hear from the Minister about the financial reserves of the corporations. Have they now increased or decreased as a result of the landlord levy? And what does this mean for the tenants? I saw a message a month ago, and I believe in the ESB...... that the reserves of the corporations have increased enormously. It would be strange if that were true. Perhaps the Minister can verify this message, because less than a year and a half ago we had the dramatic display of the landlord tax as if almost all the corporations in the Netherlands were to be referred to the kingdom of the damned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u47	If the answer is given, it is also good to take a quick look at how much is still built in the past and how much money is actually invested in what they are meant to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u48	I am happy to take this addition with me in my questions to the Minister. Another concern for my group is raised in ING's investigation, which came out last week. It concluded that housing outside the Randstad will not increase in value over the next ten years and in the Randstad it may. What impact will this have on the development of the social housing sector, according to the Minister? Those things can never be separated. The parliamentary survey showed that the monitoring of the housing sector was inadequate. Mr Duivetteijn has just asked for the necessary information. And to my question to him, how can it be that there have been motions on this matter 20 years ago, but that there has been no increased supervision, I would also like to receive an answer from the Minister. Given the semi-public nature of housing corporations, a significant proportion of their financial resources have been financed by public funds. Failure of supervision allows for the leaking of these public funds and can lead residential corporations to stray from their core task, namely to provide social housing, including the environment. Because supervision, as it was previously organised, was not sufficient, D66 also argued for an independent authority in the House of Representatives. My group is therefore pleased that the Housing Authority will fill in this place and monitor the protection of social property. In doing so, it is a positive development that a division of SGEI and non-DAEB tasks and a mandatory legal or administrative separation of residential corporations are in place. This will ensure the necessary transparency and clarity that will allow the Housing Corporations Authority to monitor closely. This will hopefully help to prevent abuses involving public money in the future. As my group has already asked in the written questions, D66 attaches great importance to the independence of this authority. That is why I urge the Minister to carry out the positioning of this authority with care. I wonder if he has any further thoughts on this. My group also considers it a positive development that regional areas of work for housing corporations are agreed. The parliamentary survey has made it clear that within the huge corporations the "moral awareness" was sometimes far-fetched. This did not benefit the performance of the core task. This led to policies that mainly affected the tenants. It also allows corporations to focus on the regional issues that are at stake in that particular region. Almost all colleagues here know that the Schilderswijk and the Veenkoloniën really require a different focus from those involved. Moreover, the corporations have to draw up a housing vision in consultation with the municipality. I would like to add my voice to those colleagues who have been thinking about this. My basic attitude is that municipalities will do so in a good way. That's what I'm supposed to do. It should then be examined at regional level whether it is appropriate for the specific area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u49	It's about the last sentence. That's what I'm supposed to do. I remember from my time as a deputy at the beginning of 2000, when they asked for housing visions and housing plans. It is now 2015 and not everyone has drawn up housing visions and housing plans. The whole system stands or falls with that. A corporation does not have to comply with the obligations if a municipality does not have a living vision. If it stands or falls with that and you know it's been going on for so long, when do you learn lessons from the past?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u50	I agree with Mrs De Vries that those who remain on their hands and do not have the guts to make a good story about future housing development deserve a slap on the wrist. I explained my basic attitude in the interruptive debate I had with Mr van GroenLinks. This law fits in with the completion of the failure after the survey and everything we have found. You're gonna have to start trusting me. We must say that this is a task and you must take it up. Where there is a failure, we need to see who is called at first instance to resolve this. Are these the provinces or is it the Ministry's move? I would prefer to have as effective a mechanism as possible to ensure that the hole is provided for where it is abandoned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u51	I would like to tell Mr Van Boxtel the following. I agree with Mrs De Vries that there must be a living vision. I know that in the city of Utrecht, not a small city, wonderful agreements were made four years ago that were laid down in Build to the city. This is a thick book with everything in it, but there is no question of complying with all the fine intentions of the corporations. The corporations say they can't do it financially, and the alderman stands by and says he can't do anything. How do we enforce that? We have nothing to gain from a paper-based housing vision that is not being carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u52	I think it's a pleasure that the alderman's power comes back a little bit. It has really been absent for a long time, because the municipality was mainly a asking party and not an effective party. It is also part of our role to talk about compliance and effectiveness. In my view, it is not only a good vision but also a toolbox to enable it to be implemented. In the sector in which I worked until recently, all kinds of protocols and things have been agreed, but in practice things sometimes go differently from what was agreed. Then you must also have a sanction mechanism. I start with the question of how far you can agree, for example, with the VNG and the dome, that these residential visions are really being drawn up and implemented. We have no money, or: it's so hard, don't help. That is where my question of reserve positions comes from, for example. There will probably be local and regional differences, but I noticed that the lamentation of one and a half years ago was probably a blow in the air. Does the Minister expect the establishment of the regional areas of work and the residential vision that there will also be a real link with the region and will help the regional link with the adjustment of the moral compass discussed in the survey? I'm rounding up. In the past, there have been too many abuses in the sector to ignore the need for reforms in this sector. My group is pleased that the cabinet shares this urgency and that steps are being taken to restore the focus of housing corporations on its core tasks. Monitoring activities in the housing market will need to be monitored more carefully and agreements within the sector will need more clarity and insight. My group believes that this proposal is a step in the right direction. I too, in line with Mr Duivetteijn, Mr Schouwenaar and others, urge that we not only monitor developments within the sector, but also monitor, through any body, the proper implementation. Because laws are beautiful, but implementation is often patient and there is no patience here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-3.u53	Mr. Chairman. We now know that the world of housing corporations is heavily polluted by fraud, self-enrichment, failed projects and failing supervision. Tenants and house seekers have been horribly abandoned for years. Thanks to the active work of the current minister and also due to the good work of the parliamentary committee of inquiry on housing corporations, the PVV has now finally come to the view of a large legislative proposal to deal with the problems. The Committee of Inquiry identified the fact that the corporations had far too much scope to carry out all kinds of other activities in addition to the core tasks as one of the main causes of all problems. The Committee of Inquiry is clear on this point. Anything that is not on the so-called SGEI list of core tasks simply has to stop the corporations from doing so. Thus, the corporations go back to their core tasks: building, renting and managing, without room for commercial ancillary activities and thus no longer with SGEI activities. The corporate directors and supervisors of the corporations have a maximum of one commercial ancillary activity in relation to the PVV. According to the Committee of Inquiry, the fact that directors and supervisors were in serious deficit had to do with the multitude of functions they held. The new rules, which have been lacking for so long, are being adopted today. As far as we are concerned, this is clearly a step in the right direction. The PVV will therefore be happy to support this bill.
