ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u1	Nine speakers have signed up for this legal process. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Verhoeven of the D66 Group when he is ready. That gives me time to welcome the Secretary of State as well as his officials, the people who are watching and the people who are listening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. Bananasplit, Ranking the stars and The worst driver in the Netherlands. The question is why it should be at taxpayers' expense. You can also see these kinds of programs with the commercials. This is what the Secretary of State said a year ago, on October 13, full of bombs on the Veronica ship in presenting his plans for public service broadcasting. So they were not my words, but they could have been because I very much agree. D66 wants a public service broadcaster that creates public added value by devoting itself to its core task. A broadcaster, therefore, makes programmes that are in-depth and innovative, that highlight culture and breathe creativity and look at things from a different angle. In short, the genres news, background journalism, education, culture and drama. Furthermore, D66 wants a system without a privileged position for broadcasting associations, because these associations are old vehicles from the Netherlands. D66 wants a channel in which creative competition prevails and in which the door opens to anyone with a good programme idea. That is true pluralism, I say in particular to the Christian Union and the CDA. D66 is therefore in agreement with the Secretary of State: firstly, a public service broadcaster whose core task is information, education and culture, no entertainment for entertainment and secondly, the opening up of half of the budget to programmers from outside, as a first step, I say that there is an explicit opening-up to an open order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr Verhoeven is beginning to talk about an order which has been completely destroyed and obsolete, which consists of broadcasting organizations which are structured and which he really wants to get rid of. My first question is why, then, Mr Verhoeven is not tabling an amendment to destroy the broadcasting organization immediately. My second question is whether the whole structure of this compartmentalisation is in fact not a reflection of the society that we have here in the House of Representatives, which is also a very hidden company with all parties from the last century who are still trying to prepare something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u4	In my view, I do not have to table an amendment, and secondly, I do not think that the reflection of the House of Representatives corresponds to the reflection of the broadcasters and certainly not of society. The broadcasting associations themselves have 3.5 million members and thus claim to represent the whole of society, but the Netherlands has 17 million inhabitants. I don't think this is a good reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u5	The political parties just got 300 000 members together. How can Mr Verhoeven claim that they are a reflection? That can only be done where we talk about the elections. Those 3.5 million represent at least two times the majority of families, between 7.5 and 10 million people. So that's not a plausible reason. Much more importantly, the principles we have set out are based on a democratic system with broadcasting organisations. Of course, there is also a choice for various programmes. Mr Verhoeven also agrees with Ranking the stars as a great wrong entertainment program...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mr Klein, I would ask you to put your question briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u7	Yes, so briefly: why is D66 now for patronizing and for intervening in the freedom of programmers by saying, for example, that Ranking the stars does not belong?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u8	I agree with Mr Klein that the comparison between the public broadcasting organizations and the House of Representatives is not a good comparison. D66 is not for patronizing, but it is for a public broadcaster that performs the core task well and provides the programmes that really have public added value. I was just telling you that I'm very much in line with the Secretary of State. In fact, I meant to say that I agree with the line of the Secretary of State, that of the Secretary of State a year ago, of that tough Secretary of State who stood on that Veronica ship. Indeed, the amendment we are discussing today is not yet a shadow of the revolution announced so loudly that would change public service broadcasting far and wide. So let me just say it the way it is. The Secretary of State doesn't live up to his big words. The Secretary of State isn't delivering what he promised. And the Secretary of State is actually in his shirt today, with in his hands a strongly weakened law and with his ankles chained to a lead ball that says "PvdA." What's left is a marginal step forward. Well, that's what I'm saying, in the right direction, but it doesn't work like that. The law we are discussing today is, as you may say, the difficult result of an intriguing chess game on two boards. Chessboard 1 is in The Hague: the Labour Party against the VVD. Chessboard 2 is in Hilversum: the NPO against the broadcasters. On the first sign, the Secretary of State was put up by the Labour Party. Although the Secretary of State takes scattering out of the law, in order to keep everyone happy, he then put in the law that entertainment is allowed as a means, namely as a carrier of the three key objectives of information, education and culture. And it's also allowed to be an audience lurer. So, entertainment to attract audiences. I just heard an alarm go off somewhere. Indeed, this is alarming news. In other words: entertainment simply remains possible on the tube in all conceivable forms. At the same time, the NPO and the broadcasters compete on that second chessboard. They're fighting for power in Hilversum. The broadcasters are at a loss. They risk losing control of productions, because the NPO wants to become a powerful and controlling organ. The battle hasn't been fought yet. The preliminary result is a concession policy plan, which we are not talking about today, with numerous open ends and poorly worked-out edges. This was also noted by the Culture Council and the Media Commissioner. The result is therefore a public service broadcaster that is allowed to broadcast as much entertainment as before. This has simply remained exactly the same at the expense of programmes that really have public added value. The result is an order that is put on paper for outside producers, but will in practice be blocked by bureaucracy. My first question to the Secretary of State is therefore: what is really changing, what is left of your plans? It is clear that the Secretary of State's plan was promising, but unfortunately it leaves much to be desired. D66 doesn't want a disguised commercial broadcast. That is why my group is today making a number of proposals for a public service broadcaster that focuses on its core tasks, which are not market-distorting, which is transparent and which has good checks and balances, so that a small group of people can not control everything. This law allows entertainment to be used to attract viewers to information, education and culture. This is common viewing programming, precisely what public service broadcasting is not meant for. D66 therefore has an amendment to remove the so-called sandwich formula from the law. If it is correct, this amendment is well known to my fellow Members. I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. Previous cuts in public service broadcasting force choices that affect the offer as well as the employees. This does not mean that we should eliminate activities that meet a public need and for which there is no room for commercial broadcasters either. That is the reverse world. For example, it is the reversed world that transmitters such as Sterren.nl can continue to exist, while they are just commercial competitors, such as 100% NL and TV Orange. Or take the NPO's wish to cut into opinion programs. Opinion seems to me to be a typical core task of public service broadcasting. Instead, however, the NPO prefers to fight for every meter of entertainment. Meanwhile, Radio 6, the channel for soul and jazz, disappears as of January 1. This is a station which provides for a question which the commercial broadcasters do not provide. That's the upside-down world. D66, together with the Labour Party, will be tabling a motion on it in the middle of the night, in order to preserve a full place for soul and jazz, for example by giving this music a good place at Radio 4 and also to record this in the concession policy plan. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. In the context of entertainment versus the core task, I wonder why the second paragraph of Article 2.50, on the profiling of channels, is being deleted. This profiling is intended to set frameworks. Commercial radio stations also have to meet many requirements according to the so-called clauseing. With the deletion of this provision, public broadcasters are allowed to program entirely at their own discretion. In principle, D66 is in favour of releasing channels, but this should apply to all parties, including commercial radio stations. That is why we are calling for this clause to be deleted. I'd like to get a reaction to this. I have raised my next point on several occasions, namely the distortion of the market and the unfair competition by public service broadcasting. I understand very well that it is obvious and inevitable that public service broadcasting and commercial broadcasters are fishing in the same viewing and listening pond. The Secretary of State is very double in this respect. On the one hand, he is very critical of the commercial side-effects of public service broadcasting. On the other hand, he gives the NPO the commercial mandate to generate more own revenues. The Star also wants to go further and further in raising public advertising revenue. D66 doesn't think that's necessary. We therefore propose that the maximum limit for advertising laid down by law be reduced from 10% to 8% per year. By the way, public service broadcasting is not at the 10% level at the moment, but we want to avoid that, under pressure from the Secretary of State's call to make more money, more and more advertising will be on television in the near future. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. This is an increasingly important area for public service broadcasting, and for all media, the Star is trying to make more and more money, for example through longer advertisements on Missing Broadcasts. We already went from one commercial for a fragment to two of those movies. If we're not careful, we're going from 30 seconds to one minute. That's annoying and unnecessary, especially if those extra commercials aren't worth anything. As far as D66 is concerned, the NPO therefore stops stretching online advertisements. What does the Secretary of State think about that? Is he prepared to regulate online advertising as well as television and radio advertising in law rather than through a so-called binding regulation? That's how it's taken care of. D66 has two proposals to improve the Star. The Media Act states that advertising should not be linked to programmes of a church or spiritual nature. That's one of those legacys from the hidden Netherlands. We propose simply to remove that provision from the law. We have tabled an amendment to this effect. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State on this. The Star could even earn much more if it were to open up to other parties. Now the Star may refuse advertisers at its own discretion. This means that one commercial party, such as HBO or Netflix, is admitted, while the other, such as BNR, is refused. There is therefore complete arbitrariness. That's abuse of the Star's dominant position. Will the Secretary of State address the Star and ensure that, for example, the Star will now allow cross advertising? That is to say, commercial radio advertising may be broadcast on television, and vice versa, commercial television programmes may be advertised on the radio. A public service broadcaster that does not unduly distort the market looks very closely at the impact of any new supply channel. It is a good thing that the Secretary of State is now looking at last year's D66 proposal on a core task test. All the spokesmen here know what I'm talking about. During our work visit to the BBC last year we got acquainted with this. The BBC has a very successful way of ensuring that not only the public impact and added value of a programme are taken into account, but also the market-distorting value of a new service or public service programme. When's he gonna send his letter about this? Can this be done before the legislative consultation on the media in November? Does he also include the NPO's new supply channels, such as NPO+? Does the Secretary of State also see the potential market distortion of such a new channel as NPO+? My third point concerns the outside producers. This law also deals with the possibility for outside producers to plug programme ideas into the NPO. The Secretary of State's idea is good, even if he only takes half a step. I have often said that D66 wants a completely open order, in which there is no guaranteed position for broadcasters and in which everyone is actually an outside producer. The Secretary of State has taken half a step: he will maintain the broadcasters, but will ensure that outside producers can deliver programmes through the NPO window. The bill states that there is less guaranteed money for the broadcasters. This means that there are more opportunities for independent programmers. That is a step in the right direction towards more pluralism. And I mean real pluralism, not pluralism, which is limited to a number of former broadcasting organizations, so I would just say to Mr Klein. No, it has to be a pluralism that allows everyone in the Netherlands to deliver a programme. However, the NPO and the broadcasters are currently fighting a power struggle. Actually, it's a word struggle. It is not clear in the law how it will take shape in practice. The broadcasters fear their independence. The Media Commissioner, the regulator, wants much clearer procedures and says that it is not properly regulated in the law and that there is an open end. The Culture Council, another government adviser in this area, says that the order is not becoming more open, but more complex. What does the Secretary of State think of this criticism? What's he gonna do to make sure we have a clear bill tonight? I will ask a number of questions about this later, because the interpretation of the Secretary of State appears to be different from the conclusions of the broadcasters and the NPO in their letter. They even write that the Secretary of State says their solution is not in line with the bill we are discussing today. In other words: there is a lot of noise on the line. This really needs to be clarified tonight, because otherwise the situation will arise that the parties in Hilversum will decide among themselves how the House of Representatives intended it. I don't think that's the way we should legislate in this country. The key question is who decides what a program will look like. That's the point. Should broadcasters strictly follow a deal between the NPO and the outside producers, or can broadcasters make adjustments on the basis that they are the only ones to have the broadcasting licence? The NPO is a steering organisation, but does not have a broadcasting licence. If broadcasters can deviate from the deal between producers and the NPO, how does it work? Isn't it going to be very bureaucratic? Are we not going to have a situation in which producers are constantly put in the waiting room of parties in Hilversum who are playing ping-pong with each other? I was talking about the chess board, but ping-ponging is another way to waste a lot of time. Is there not a situation in which the outside producers have an idea, but are waiting for it to finally go ahead? We really need to watch for that. The Secretary of State himself says he is not satisfied, but the NPO and the broadcasters write in their letter that they will take care of it in the concession policy square. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. What is leading now, the law or the concession policy plan? How's he gonna guard that? To prevent one party from becoming too powerful in relation to the other party and that a small group of people in Hilversum can determine everything for a large group of people watching television that is still a large group of people need good checks-and-balances. That is in all the pieces that have been produced over the past few weeks about this law. Everyone agrees that there should be good checks-and-balances. Yeah, sure, but how are we gonna fill it out? The Commission for the Media and the Council for Culture are also extremely critical on this point, because how exactly will relations become? What is the risk that, in addition to the loss of independence in production, which I have just mentioned, broadcasters will also turn in journalistic independence? I'd like to get a reaction to this. Good checks-and-balances at least mean a clear separation of roles according to D66, but if we see something a lot in media country, then those are the double caps. That's how the NPO sits on the board of the Star, with three men even. What's the reason for that? Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate the governance structure of the Star? My group is very positive about the idea of genre coordinators that this law would make possible. We say at the same time: stop the network and transmitter coordinators who are still active in the whole system of programming independently of the directors of audio and video. That gives a double, if not triple, level of administration. It's bureaucratic and it's a waste of money. We'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. My fourth point concerns transparency. I've got five points, so we're well on schedule. That is also one of the discussions that has been going on a great deal. The best control of power is, of course, transparency. Transparency is a counterweight and therefore transparency also creates confidence. It's necessary. See, for example, the deal that NOS and FOX tried to close a few months ago about football rights. My colleague from the VVD and I asked a lot of questions about this at the time, because we really wanted to know what was going on. It took a very long time for us to finally be clear. This transparency must therefore be properly regulated. Take also the discussion that is now being held about the table guests of talk shows. I believe that politicians should not interfere with the composition and costs of a programme. So they shouldn't talk about the table guests of talk shows either. What I do think is that when there are situations in which private contracts play a role, the supervisory authority must look very quickly at what that is about and whether this does not affect journalistic and editorial independence. Those talk-show table guests are gonna pay a lot of money for coming. I would also like to add, for all the talk shows that are watching: we politicians, we just come for free. We do not think that is a problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u9	Do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u10	Okay, I'll be the only one coming for free. But now the sad fact that The World is turning is that politicians no longer want to sit at the table. Probably because they don't ask for money!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u11	I believe that you can continue to speak on this subject in the we form.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u12	Okay, let's do that. The whole thing about the king's song is another example. That went on and on, there was no clarity about the costs and it took far too long for it to be clear what the contract was like. Eventually it had to be wobbled and thus again created confusion about the fact that it was not. Everyone said, "Oh, it's a non-contract, no money has been asked." I think the contract can still touch journalistic independence. I find the fact that there was a contract curious. Politicians should not go into that, but we do have a supervisor who should be able to do so. What does the Secretary of State think about giving the Media Commissioner, more than is currently the case, the opportunity to get a good and quick insight into these contracts as a supervisor?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u13	When it comes to transparency, I spring up. That is an interesting subject and Mr Verhoeven has a strong opinion on it. It turns out it is now. Last year, when he didn't really have to come up with anything at a legislative meeting on a question from my colleague Elias or for those football broadcasting rights, he said: however, I dare to answer Mr Elias that I do indeed tend towards full transparency, so that we can debate it publicly. But, yes, there are all legal hooks and eyes to that. Legislation is on the agenda today. I assume that Mr Verhoeven has not come to his senses in a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u14	Absolutely not. In my quote I heard two sensible nuances that fit well with my party. First of all, I heard I was leaning towards something. I am leaning towards full transparency, it is only about the level of transparency. We say: be completely transparent, but at the level of the genre. I think that is also a perfect match for the football rights, because that is the genre of football and not the program Studio Sport. So how concrete and how consistent can you be! Secondly... Well, actually this one point is already enough to answer the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u15	Well, that's gonna be a little clavicle. We are not talking about the genre of football but about the genre of sport. So everything in the field of rights would be swept away in one large knit genre sport. But Mr Verhoeven also asked all sorts of questions about the king's song. That's right. That's what I did. How can the answers to all the questions he has asked about this, which should then become transparent if necessary, become very transparent if we are only allowed to report on the genre? After all, these costs will be swept away in a genre of culture?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u16	Absolutely. Mr Rutte is right on that point. I do not want politicians or MPs to be able to ask what exactly the programme cost and what its budget was. I don't want to, because, for example, the PVV would say that The World Running has become very expensive or the Christian Union would say that Dr. Corrie has become very expensive. We just shouldn't have that. That's why I think we should do it at genre level. However, if our supervisor, who can look at things in an objective, distant way, says he wants to see a particular contract, then there must be immediate clarity from the Commissioner. This could include, for example, football rights contracts or the situation with regard to the King's song. So we say yes to transparency, but no to political interference at programme level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u17	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u18	No, Mr Rutte, we are interrupting in two. So proceed, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u19	I am also pleased to find Mr Rutte on my side on this point. He has a slightly different solution and pretends to be completely different from mine. However, we both want transparency at the level where it is necessary. That is also necessary, because, in addition to the three examples I mentioned, public service broadcasting tends to lend itself to commercial actions. Radio stations also often see this with artists, festivals and concert organizers, and when promoting events on radio and TV it happens sometimes. The question then is whether there is any promotion or service to the making of profit by third parties. The latter is, of course, prohibited under the law. The Secretary of State knows that, too. It's unclear, because the contracts are classified. That is why I just asked the Secretary of State what he thinks of the strengthening of the role of the Commissioner or the supervisor, who must be able to assess quickly and clearly whether a contract fits within the law. I'd like to receive a response. We have already talked about the fact that the Secretary of State, but also the VVD, wants complete openness of programme costs per TV programme and per programme title. I like transparency in itself, but I also like the independence of television, journalism and broadcasting. I hope that Mr Rutte agrees. It is a very dangerous way to opt for transparency at programme level. That will discuss the individual programmes. I have just mentioned examples of what could happen, and we must avoid that. So I would like to receive a response to my proposal...... this time I will do so with my colleague from the Labour Party in order to do it at genre level. The NPO has already thought about doing it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u20	Mr Verhoeven is challenging me a little bit. He even mentions my name. Then I'm going to ask for a little clarification. If Mr Verhoeven only wants information at genre level, will he stop asking all kinds of parliamentary questions at programme level? Or is that a way of transparency that should be? Can you at least ask the Secretary of State so that it becomes clear on a detour?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u21	I do not know which parliamentary questions Mr Rutte is referring to. However, I think that the questioning of Parliament is at a very different level than saying that you want to see the receipt of everything. I challenge Mr Rutte to mention the parliamentary question in which I ask if I can see the receipt of a particular programme. But I do sometimes ask Parliament questions about certain matters. I am therefore happy to get the answer that it is going through the Commissioner or that we can have something confidential for inspection if it is really necessary. I don't think I ever asked for a receipt from a particular program. But perhaps Mr. Rutte can surprise me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u22	Is there a difference between questions about transparency at genre level or at programme level? How am I supposed to explain the questions about the broadcasting rights of football or, more specifically, the King's Song? Like me, Mr Verhoeven has asked several questions about the King's Song. That digs deeper than transparency at programme level. How can Mr Verhoeven indicate that if he thinks that genre level is actually sufficient?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u23	I can do that because I think there is a difference between showing the total cost of a given programme and showing what exactly is going on, and the contracts that may affect journalistic independence. I am therefore concerned with football rights and the King's song, not so much with the amount, but with journalistic independence. In my opinion, we have seen the contract on football rights confidentially, so I cannot draw too much from it, but it is well known that the contract contained things that were not just problematic because of the amount. I'm just gonna say it very carefully. There were also things that touched on journalistic independence. In addition, there was an advertising component that was very dubious. I hope I haven't said too much now. Otherwise, I'll get another fine from the Commissariat for talking my mouth out of this. That is my answer to Mr Rutte's question. I will continue my speech and come to my last point: a number of other questions and comments. The rights entities that are established concern copyright material, of which the NPO has said: we would like to coordinate this. They want to make it easier for them to use all these rights centrally. That's where the sigh for bringing in more money is again. The Culture Council says of this: pay attention to the position of small creative makers, who make it possible to make a certain programme possible. If you look carefully at that, I ask the Secretary of State. How does he ensure that the coordinating role of the NPO is not at the expense of proportional remuneration for small makers? Then I'll be on the regional broadcasters. It is well known that this is an important subject for D66. The strength of the region is, of course, extremely important. Democracy in the region and its monitoring are also extremely important. My colleague from the CDA nods and he will probably say a number of things about it later. There are proposals to create an RPO, a central body as a point of contact for the Ministry. This will also ensure that the concessions of all these different regional broadcasters are aligned. That sounds like D66 to me. We would like to see attention paid to sparsely populated areas. I am thinking of Friesland, but especially of Drenthe and Zeeland, where there are very limited news sources. It is the two provinces in the Netherlands that really have the thinnest density of news sources. The thinnest density, indeed; it's all in there tonight. We're laughing about it now, but it's a serious point. How is the Secretary of State going to help you not lower it below a critical threshold? What is the cooperation between regional broadcasters and national public service broadcasting going to be like? How does the Secretary of State encourage a good exchange of content? What is he going to do as a legislator in the supervision? Finally, Mr President-in-Office, you probably felt it already coming. I ask the Secretary of State: how does he guarantee the importance of Omrop Fryslân for the preservation of the Frisian language? My group has advised me not to ask in the Frisian language. I took that advice. I now come to the letter on the media valley. We received a letter from a number of media organisations and aldermen of Amsterdam, Utrecht and Hilversum. They pointed out the economic and innovative strength of the Dutch media sector. They say: look not only on journalistic grounds at that activity and on the basis of broadcasting alone, but also at the economic strength of those companies and organisations. They say, among other things,: pay attention to a level playing field with foreign players and make sure that you encourage that there can be substantive cooperation between the different media forms at national, regional and local level. I ask one question: will the Secretary of State discuss this letter with his colleagues from OCW, EZ and SZW, because it concerns several points? If he does, I'd like him to send a cabinet response to that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u24	It had not escaped the attention of the spokesperson of D66 that in the section on regional broadcasting I could not contain the physical expression of my agreement. I am pleased that D66 also speaks with such warm words about the importance of these regional broadcasters and defends the small provinces and the importance of monitoring democracy there too. Can I conclude from Mr Verhoeven's speech that, precisely because of his emphasis on the provinces, he believes that in future the enforcement of regional broadcasters at county level should be secured? Does he think that they should be able to continue to operate at that level, precisely because of the importance of all the tasks he has just appointed himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u25	The love for the region has always resided well with D66. After the last few years, we have a lot of voters there. We want to be able to achieve them well. It is even more important that good democratic control can be exercised in the municipal councils and in the Provincial States, where there are also representatives of D66. As far as we are concerned, the province is an excellent level to do so. So we see no reason to let that go. Well, it's his idea to cluster here and there. I'm not entirely sure that this bill is going to deal with that literally. This must be done from the bottom up, in consultation with the regional organisations themselves. Their opinion must be at the forefront of determining what is the best level of scale.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u26	Does that mean that the thirteen regional broadcasters are supposed to be secured at provincial level in one province, and that this should be separate from the concession period, not only for the next four years, but also after that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u27	I understand your question and my answer goes in the direction of a yes, but I will do what I did last year to the colleague of the VVD: I am applying a nuance, so that I will not be pinned on a statement next year. That is a guiding idea for us. I see no reason to change that at the moment, but yes, I cannot provide guarantees for the rest of the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u28	You were done with your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u29	No, I have two other points and then I'm going to finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u30	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u31	Fourthly, the Media Fund will be abolished through this law and there will be an NPO fund with the same budget of a small 17 million for innovative productions. At the request of D66, the Lower House called on the Cabinet to clarify the design and operation of this fund for the adoption of this law. The Secretary of State has already responded to this, but he always refers to the performance agreements that will follow later. Why doesn't he make sense already? Is he willing to do so in the short term? Finally, a technical question. Missed broadcast and other government websites still use the Flash Player for video, while that is a very unsafe video player when it comes to cyber security. Is the Secretary of State willing to take a look at a safe alternative with the National Cyber Security Center? I'm rounding up. D66 was pleased with the Secretary of State from a year ago. He announced a revolution in media country. He woke up with tough language on the Veronica ship, he dared to mention concrete programmes, which he did not think belong to the public service, paid by the taxpayer, but the present bill does not make this great promise a reality. The gepolder has led to vague wordings, to open ends and to uncertainties. Especially the established parties will soon express their joy that everything remains the same. D66 would have preferred real improvement rather than false change. Hence our choices for clear core tasks, for less advertising, for creative competition and for sensible transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u32	I've listened very carefully. I hope I've listened well enough. I heard Dr. Corrie come by. I do regret that we are going to talk at programme level. I wouldn't do that myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u33	You did that two years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u34	I think I have the amendment in part No. 11 just came by. It is almost too small to talk about it, but I would like to talk about the observation that we have a secular public service broadcasting and that therefore advertising on religious broadcasts should be possible. My first question is what is the meaning of "secular" broadcasting. Secularizing the word means turning away. That would mean that we have a non-religious public channel, that religious people have no place in it. That would be my understanding of it. The second is: if you have a solution, you must also have a problem. Can Mr Verhoeven give examples of advertisers who have run into a wall, who would very much like to advertise, but who have not? For what distressing problem is this the solution? Can Mr Verhoeven explain this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u35	A brief explanation, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u36	Sure. I have briefly explained the amendment, but because of the amount of improvement proposals I made for this law, I was not able to do so. Mr Segers mentioned Dr Corrie two years ago. He then found that Dr. Corrie wasn't quite in the hook in a particular area. He made a comment on that at the time. I wrote that down back then. I think I have just quoted from Mr Segers' work. I can answer his question quite clearly. We believe that all advertising combinations and programme combinations should be possible and we see no reason to ensure that a particular combination of advertising and programme, or the connection of a particular advertising to a particular programme, could not be possible. Mr Segers asks me about 'the problem'. I think we should just say that it is unnecessary and that we can therefore also get it out of the law. I do not think that is a problem either, when you have modernised the law at a point that really came from something that used to be important. That's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u37	Mr Verhoeven does not answer my first question, namely the statement in the explanatory statement to his amendment that we would have a secular public service broadcasting. That's curious. I feel somewhat left out, and that can never be the intention of Mr Verhoeven. Public service broadcasting is everyone's and everyone's. That's the first thing. I didn't know about the existence of this rule. I find it almost typical for the D66 group to mess around in all the law books to see if there is anything in it that reminds us of our religious past and then to see if it can be demolished. Mr Verhoeven is unable to see this as an expression of civilisation, namely that you take some account of, for example, a Muslim broadcasting service by not broadcasting beer advertising just before the broadcast. Another example is that the broadcast of a divine service on Sunday morning is not preceded by advertising for SecondLove. It is an expression of civilisation to take some account of one another in public service broadcasting too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u38	Mr Segers blames me for being in a law. I've been talking all along about the core tasks of public service broadcasting. The core task of a Member of Parliament is to flea in laws that are dealt with. I have indeed found a provision which I wondered why it is still in the law. Over the years, we have always advocated the modernisation of laws. That is not at all aimed at demeritation. That is not at all against a certain faith or against any other spiritual movement. It has nothing to do with that. It's written like that in that article. We say it must be possible to have those combinations. Mr Segers' examples are very similar. Then everyone has a different offer at different times. We always say: why not just shop on Sundays? One can do what he likes, for example go to church, and the other can do what he likes at the same time, namely visit a shop. This is unfortunately seen by the Christian Union, I find that very annoying, always seen as attacking Christians and certain beliefs. That's not the point. We have every right to modernise certain things and to ensure that we have a society in which certain combinations that used to be difficult are now possible. Mr Segers, like us, has a button at home. He can just turn her off the minute he thinks, "Hey, I don't want this."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u39	I would once again ask Members to be brief and concise. In the media, they usually can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u40	Mr. Chairman. Your wish is my command. I'll keep it as pointy as I can. I agree to a large extent with Mr Verhoeven of D66. I think we'll be right out of formation. I am afraid it will be night work when I look at all the speaking time. Once we have had all the parties chosen, Mr Castro of the Free-Spirited Party will talk to us with a 40-minute closing to Klaas often and then we will have to get the second term. But I don't want to challenge anyone. What have I done now, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u41	I am trying to give Mr Klein a gesture of advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u42	The gesture was excellent, very inviting. In the end, it is important that we do not have North Korean or Cuban situations here. That's what my contribution will be about. After me, by the way, an extensive story will come from the real great leader in this whole story, namely the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u43	Thank you, continue, Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u44	I will not do this again, Mr. Chairman, my apologies. Despite the fact that it's going to be night work, I'm afraid it's a pretty pointless debate because the Secretary of State doesn't want to talk about the implementation of the law. I'll ask the question, "What are we doing here on earth?" Do not answer today, but the question is: what are we doing in the House of Representatives? The answer is that we as MPs are there to control the government, and we do so on the basis of laws. We are assessing whether the government is implementing the laws that we are adopting here. I have made this point many times, but the Secretary of State says he does not want to talk about the content and therefore not about whether the law is being implemented. My conclusion is that you actually don't have to talk about introducing laws. I find it odd that the Secretary of State should take that position. In the end, I find it a blow in the face of Parliament just the week when we celebrate our 200th anniversary. We didn't get very far. It is very strange that Mr Plasterk, the predecessor of the Secretary of State on this dossier, did so. The Secretary of State is talking about entertainment, and that seems to me to be content. It's very strange that the NPO does talk to the Department of Social Affairs about Black Piet. Then it's all possible. So I think this debate is rather fruitless, but we are going to try it anyway. Another reason why it is rather pointless to have this debate is that technology has outdone this issue and certainly this law. In the United States, people under 50 years of age are watching dramatically less television compared to 2010. In the group 18-25-year-olds this is even minus 32%. Since 2010, this group has seen one third less linear. People develop their own channels. More and more people in the Netherlands are throwing their televisions out. We hear commercials on the radio in which the cable farmers say that you can also take their product without television, only internet and phone. In the Netherlands, the internet already covers 30% of the total viewing time. This is what my group has been calling for years. We're getting support from an unexpected angle. The watch and listen research department had a nice interview the other day and the man told him to explain to his children exactly what radio is. Those kids have no idea. Mr Slagter of broadcasting MAX says: my children 16 and 21 years old do not watch Spoorloos with me on the couch. They sit in their room watching a movie or youtube it. They don't look at public service broadcasting. Jeroen Pauw says, following that investigation from America, that this is the end of the television era. For example, BBC3, a youth channel, is taken out of the sky. In short, the Titanic already makes water, but we are rearranging the deckchairs. We're talking about exactly what entertainment actually is. The Secretary of State says it's scattering and about introducing genre coordinators alongside net coordinators; you can't give it to your worst enemies, but these people are going to do it all. I have a strong impression that this Secretary of State still thinks it's 1973, that Fred Oster will appear between the wings with two marmots under his armpits and that we will look in our pajamas Swiebertje on Saturday night. It's become a whole different story. Basically, at least what's left of it is now a subscriber, but with forced shopping, no, with forced payment. The key question the Secretary of State should answer is: why should people be forced to pay for it? I do not see an answer to that, even more so, the question is not even asked. Meanwhile, broadcasting becomes more irrelevant, i-relevant every day. 40% of young people do not know public service broadcasting or only by name. 40%, Chairman! No Peil is completely boycotted by the NPO, a complete blackout. Eva Jinek even says: I'm not going to invite Jan Roos, because then I make him important and he's not worth it. Despite that boycott, NopePeil collects 500,000 signatures. The Titanic is making more and more water. It would be liberal to consider whether we can make payment optional. I've got something for a liberal. In October last year the Secretary of State wrote: overlap with commercial broadcasting can be further restricted. I thought, "Now we're gonna get it." However, we have not noticed much of it. In the Telegraph of March of this year it was announced. In the same week Radio 2 comes with Back 2 The 80's, Radio Veronica with the 80's Top 750 and Radio 10 with the 80's Top 810. All three in the "gull old" segment, but Radio 2 has a national FM distribution, has just bought an expensive disc jockey for the morning show and can enjoy the marketing power of the broadcast: billboards, megamasts, TV commercials. The commercial Radio Veronica is not national coverage and has to count how many pictures it runs and how long the disc jockey can talk, because that's all in that agreement. This is a skeptical process. They're all in the "gull old" segment, but why does the one channel from the state need to get such a head start? There are many more examples of this overlap. The whole of Holland Bakt is simply an English format that is offered by the NPO against commercial parties. RTL fights for the same format as the NPO. Why the hell does that have to happen? We see sports rights on which they are offered, while commerce can do so. We see it particularly in the digital field, where old media companies, such as newspapers, have to develop digitally and simply run into broadcasting. What is the Secretary of State doing to keep the broadcasting company out of business? I don't think so much. A test would be a good start, but let the ACM also look at everything the broadcaster develops in new activities. My next point is entertainment. That would be abolished. The Secretary of State put on big pants: something was going to change. We saw him on Veronica's ship. Something big was done here. Klaroenschal, there was a knock on the chest and a bat was waved. Here Mr. Dekker showed his muscles and he wandered with the report of the Council for Culture, which stated that there is not enough distinction between public and commerce. But again capitulation for the Labour Party, because the entertainment remains simply, provided as a means and not as a purpose. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats expresses their satisfaction with this report. I'm sure you do, because nothing changes at all. You can broadcast anything, provided you give it a nice twist. From now on we call Ranking the Stars a contribution to computational education, Boer is looking for Vrouw we call an environmental programme, Heel Holland Bakt from now on we do with biological cakes and Bananasplit is a college of interpersonal interaction. Then it's not entertainment anymore. Well, at least it's a cure, and then it's all right. So it's okay to go back. In short, a lot of screaming and no result. Another VVD'er who will implement PvdA policy. Too bad about the work of the Culture Council, which will be thanked for its efforts which have been completely unnecessary. This is a Secretary of State calling a 3 a sufficient one. So the bar is a bit low, but this Secretary of State has really failed. Another point: the Dutch song. Hilversum has been picking up his nose for this for years. They don't think it's hip and multiculti. On the FM channels, there is hardly any attention to it, while it is a prime public task: our language, our culture. It is a format that is difficult to exploit. Think of Radio National at the time, of Ruud Hendriks. I wonder why turning Paradise by the Dashboard Light is a public task and not promoting Frans Duijts and Liesbeth List? Why would Meatloaf or Queen be a public task? I don't see it. Stop competing with business and start performing public tasks. Too bad the profiling of transmitters has been removed from the law. That's Article 2.50 (2). That is a pity, because that member just offered the opportunity to impose and record all formats and thus guarantee and anchor the public task. Recognizability, it just gives the government the chance to take care of that. It's gone. It's another opportunity to steer public tasks out the window. Transparency. Why so mysterious? The Secretary of State writes: "If the public service broadcaster is asked afterwards to give more transparency about the costs of the programmes, then I think they should give it to them." I agree. However, this also means very little in practice, because how is it implemented? The Secretary of State sent a letter in March. Go ahead. Everything else hasn't happened at all. Why can't we just wobble the network? Why can't we just sort out everything they do through the Public Administration Act? Why can't we just look for ourselves what the King's song has cost us and what about football rights, programming and all kinds of strategic decisions? A former colleague of ours, a former leader of GroenLinks, can make a series for the NPO: The Group. The last episode was aired last Monday. I'd like to know how much that costs us. Only 88,000 people looked at it. That's nothing. For example, I would like to suggest that we simply send the DVD to the latest viewers. That is a fraction cheaper and much better for the environment and also for the climate. Then all professional PVV bashers and multicultural talkers. How much are Quincy Gario, Mr Spong and Peter R. de Vries? How much does the most sought-after politician at De Wereld Riett By Felix Rottenberg, the former chairman of the PvdA, get to promote his dying splinter party at our expense? It would be good if all those paid guests were marked anyway. If a brand of cola is suddenly praised at Good Times, Bad Times, should appear in the picture: in this program there is product placement, article 2.88 b of the Media Act. Why don't we decide that if Peter R. gets paid on the grieving tube, the amount he gets for his play should be put in the picture? If they are in a nice, creative mood at the NPO, they can also paste cash register sounds underneath it as far as I'm concerned. Why be so cramped about all this information? Why can I wobble every waterboard or the smallest municipality, but is it in Hilversum? This bill doesn't improve that. I urge transparency. Then all those involved would have a level playing field, even if the outside producers and externals would soon have access to the NPO. Is the accession of newcomers really a breakthrough? We heard the kettle bumps on Veronica's ship when the Secretary of State announced his plans, but is this really changing a lot? The broadcasting organizations of the 1920s remain editorially responsible. The Council of State says that the position of broadcasting organizations is becoming unclear. For example, there are many more interpretation differences. Mr Verhoeven has pointed this out for a while. Those broadcasting associations shall have the right to participate in the content of programmes. Moreover, no objection or appeal is possible. So this remains a black box. I have a strong impression this is a wash nose. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State if Hilversum really opens. Or is it just business as usual? I started my contribution by asking why the Secretary of State wants to talk about this new law if he doesn't even want to talk about the implementation of the old law. That old law is not being enforced. I refer to Article 2.1 (2). It talks about giving a balanced picture of society, about pluralism, about meeting high journalistic and professional quality standards and about being accessible to everyone. That's the paper, but reality is a whole different one. The network is a left-wing party. The network doesn't belong to all of us and to all of us. The broadcaster offers a tsunami of left-wing propaganda. Hilversum does not speak the language of our people, but the language of a small, left-wing canal belt elite. Under the current Secretary of State, of the VVD House, even the flagship of the broadcaster, the Netherlands 1, which has by far the highest ratings, has fallen into the hands of the broadcaster of the Labour Party. I'll mention last night's score. Mrs Verbeet, Mrs Hilkens and Mr Asscher were at the World Rotat Door. Pauw had Diederik Samsom. Furthermore, our NPO is very balanced. The PvdA is a marginalized splinter party, but in the aftermath of its existence it has accepted the main channel of Dutch state broadcasting, without any shame and without reservation. The Secretary of State of the VVD House is standing by with a flag on its side to make it all possible. We see it in the figures of The World Running On. There is a plethora of PvdA types guest. A former president of the PvdA is the most popular politician. Who are they talking about in that left-wing talk bar? With head and shoulders, Geert Wilders sticks out. It's tagged and it's peated. And bashes, and but chop, and be indignant, with powerless rage and stomping, tears in the eyes, the fists are blown. In fact, the whole of the Netherlands is one big therapy session. The progressive people don't get over talking about people who have the wrong opinion. Now, around the asylum influx, it becomes even more visible. The chairman of the board, Mr Hagoort, promised on his arrival: no more three times a night the Volkskrant. He kept his word, because we now have all day, from morning to evening late NRC Handelsblad. Predictable left-hand meninks as a basis for the coverage, from early morning on Radio 1 to bedtime. Since the beginning of the sheltersunami, there has been no keeping to it. I always hear my party would generalize. That's apekraut. Those who do systematically generalize are the NPO. They're all refugees. Zooming in on children for the maximum sadness effect. The fact that only one fifth of asylum seekers come from Syria is not mentioned. The NPO continues with the fraudulent "they come from war zones." Do you find it strange that people report to azc's with teddy bears, as in Amersfoort! However, if it turns out to be 500 single men, then the NPO stories suddenly seem to clash with reality. The president of Omroep MAX even calls in gas chambers to justify the asylum influx. Anyone who criticizes the tsunami really craves a new Auschwitz, finds Omroep MAX. Other Times this week was about the Jewish refugees from before the war. Of course, the NPO cannot fail to mention that in a single effort with the current asylum seekers. That's Hilversum. We have Arie Boomsma, who literally claims to want to grow understanding of Islam. We have Andries Knevel, who claims to take action for the migrants on Kos. Those people are tearing down that island, to the great sorrow of the original inhabitants, who are crying. The EO comes back with a new program to raise PVV voters to good multiculturalists. The title of it is Fuck off to your own country. PVV's have already been contacted everywhere. Does the NPO have programs to convert GroenLinks? If not, why not? That is my question to the Secretary of State. KRO-NCRV is going to deliver flowers to asylum seekers' centres. The network says, "Connecting is a priority for us." The same club is going to accommodate even 100 asylum seekers in its own building, the AKN building. How does that relate to the Media Act? That is my question to the Secretary of State. The director of that club is very proud of it and then he drives back to his villa in his white village. Then they like to leave the bonding to others. This weekend, the AVROTROS advisor tweeted that he finds the rise of my party frightening. The NPO only wants one story: they're all refugees and they're all pathetic. Mistakes in azc's, assaults, crime, disruption, mass fighting, hatred of Jews, homophobia, hatred of women, hatred of Christianity, it all remains as unnamed as possible, under the hat. The fairy tale must not be disturbed and certainly not by the facts. The vast majority of our people who reject the asylum system are apparently mostly Nazis, people of the extreme right, tockies or other lesser people who nobody has to take into account. There's a whole night of sadness TV with Jeroen Pauw. We see him pose for the photo of the drowned boy, but the true story is not told. The programme also provides time for those who disagree. They are announced as "people who have fear." Someone from AZC-Alert, Anita Hendriks, is interviewed by a reporter from EenVandaag who looks at her full of disgust and disapproval. The presenter of Nieuwsuur says about Germany: "The country shows two faces. You have the people who welcome the refugees with open arms and you have people who stop them with the stretched right arm." In short, anyone who doesn't cheer for the influx is a Nazi. That's how they feel in Hilversum about the people who pay their salaries. Yesterday there was a saying in Nieuwsuur: there is great concern about the basis of support. Oh, yeah, with who? With our people? Not on the tram I'm in. Not in the schoolyard where I stand. No, there's that concern in the world's foreign enclave called Media Park. The president of the NPO signs the manifesto. Do you feel called? He does so as Chairman of the Governing Board of the NPO. In De Telegraaf, his signature is perfectly printed between those of other foreign BNs who like to display their own excellence. Look at them on the right side! The initiative will continue at the good people's meeting in the Amsterdam Stadsschouwburg in the framework of the project 24 hours Unlimited. Is it the responsibility of the President of the NPO to support the asylum lobby? That is my question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u45	I just want to make a point of order. I thought we were dealing here with a legal procedure and not with a cabaret program from the PVV. My question to the President is: is this still in order? Otherwise I'll go away and then I'll come back when this cabaret show is over and we can go back to legal treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u46	I can answer that. There's been a law-enforcement operation. Of course, Members are talking about their own text, but you can ask questions if you miss certain parts, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u47	I can only add that I miss all the parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u48	I understand that Mr Grashoff would like to go away for a moment. As far as I'm concerned, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u49	Mr Bosma has always been in line here in recent years. He's always talking about a state broadcast. He has always cited examples with which he tries to make it clear that he thinks that broadcasting is trying to steer content in the public debate. He is doing this now with a very long text on the refugee problem. Indeed, I was biting my teeth, but it is Mr Bosma's right. Here's what I'm gonna ask him. What has Mr Bosma done to translate everything he says and finds into an improvement in the law? He'll have to try to do something there. He can keep wonderful stories here that are all more or less nonsense, but he must do something about this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u50	That is precisely my point of principle. It would be nice if a party that calls itself "democrats" would agree with me. I want to make the point that the law is not being implemented and therefore it makes very little sense to talk about a new law. The Secretary of State does not even want to answer the very fundamental question of whether the law is being implemented, because that is what he thinks it is about. I always flirt with the articles in the Media Act which simply impose all kinds of things on the way in which broadcasting is to function. The network doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u51	It's getting weirder. I have the feeling that the polls are starting to get a little bit nasty about the PVV. That's happened before in the past. A few weeks ago it was said that we are a fake parliament, today Mr Bosma says that it does not matter what we change into law because it is not being implemented. He then makes a very long speech on a subject that he says: I do not change anything about it, because it does not matter anymore. Why does Mr Bosma, as a Member of Parliament, not tighten the law on the points he considers so important? Why didn't he do anything to turn that very long word stream into one improvement in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u52	Nothing's gone to my head. Regardless of the polls, this is the story I've been turning off since I became media spokesperson in 2006. Mr Verhoeven is very welcome. He's a little new on this file, but he might be able to make a call to Boris van der Ham if he's behind on the information. This is the story I always tell. The law is not being implemented and something must follow. If the law is not implemented, we just need to talk about funding. It's very simple. If a playground association doesn't do what it's supposed to do, we're gonna have to cut the funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u53	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u54	It is nice that Mr Grashoff should remain seated, Mr President. I'll appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u55	How much longer, Mr. Bosma?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u56	I've got ten minutes. I see time goes on. It shouldn't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u57	Time's just running again. He's stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u58	I'll take your word for it, Mr. Chairman. The Council of State states that broadcasting associations represent different trends in society and that this ensures some degree of diversity. So that's a dead letter. Afshin Ellian is right: in Hilversum they believe in pluralism, the pluralism of the same church: the left-wing church. There's another match. The NPO idealists all live in white villages, in white neighborhoods and bring their kids to white schools. They're all for the multicultural society, but they're all for the preservation of their own white street. I predict that in the coming months and years we will get a lot of programs full of nice, cuddly, pathetic refugees who do very well at school and who can sing very well. We'll be thrown to death because we need to be raised. The NPO has a strange racial obsession. We're looking for a network manager right now. We read that a candidate with a non-Western background is preferred. Why not just the best for that job? Why say goodbye to the principle of a meritocracy? We read that there will be a Turkish pop station. Can the Secretary of State tell us what the underlying idea is? I thought this cabinet was for integration. After all, this is the Netherlands and not Turkey. The PvdA always calls out: not your lineage counts, but your future. But when it comes to distributing subsidy money to radio channels, your origins suddenly count again. Then suddenly you're not a Dutchman again, but just a Turk again. I think that's weird. My proposal is: Turkish channels, fine; in Turkey. Why should the Dutch taxpayer contribute to something that appeals to Turks in the Netherlands for being Turks? We often see it at the NPO, such as internships only for immigrants and deliberately portraying people who have a certain skin color, in order to meet all kinds of agreements. The Council of State also says: public broadcasting is a cultural carrier of the Netherlands. My impression is quite a different one: the NPO is a cultural destroyer. The NPO systematically destroys Black Piet, our child friend who has never harmed a fly. The hate campaign started at the VARA, continued by the EO and soon the NTR will talk to the Minister of Social Affairs about killing our Black Piet. Why is the NTR doing this? It seems to me to be in flagrant conflict with Article 7 of the Constitution, i.e. not having prior leave to express an opinion. Why the hell is the network, the NPO, going to the Ministry to talk about the content of television programmes? In the GDR they did and I understand that, but why is the NPO talking to a minister about the content of television programmes? Why doesn't the NPO want to change Islamic holidays but our holidays? It is illustrative for the NPO who has lost all touch with our people and runs completely on the leash of crazy activists. That is why we pay tribute to RTL, because that is where it remains. Black Pete black. The Luxembourgers will not be terrorized. Hallowed to the commercials, they perform the public tasks that the proud state broadcasting is taking the noses for. I've got seven minutes and 40 seconds left, but I'll have time. In conclusion, the law is not being complied with. The Media Act is a dead letter. That's worse. What is even worse is that we have a Secretary of State who doesn't want to say anything about it. Talking about a new Media Act therefore makes very little sense. The public service is in favour of feeding us. We're thinking wrong, we're voting wrong, and we're celebrating racist parties. So we need to be brought to a better conclusion. We need to learn to think the same way we do in Hilversum, because that's where better people live. We also need to be ready with stuffed bears at azc's and close our eyes. Never before has the gap been so great. Never before were the differences between the standards and values of the Media Park and the standards and values of the vast majority of our people. The broadcasting has become an instrument in the overcrowding of the Netherlands. The purpose of the network is to talk to us that any resistance is pointless. It's psychological warfare. That gap is real. It exists, and it can't be closed. On the one hand we see the gas chamber rhetoric, the stretched right arm, the action on Kos, the signature under "Do you feel called?" And on the other hand, we see the vast majority of our people saying massively that the borders must be closed and that we must stop this madness. Again, the gap is real. Let's acknowledge it; it's not too dense. Let's break up as good friends. We are happy to think back to Fred Oster and Swiebertje. For decades, great radio and television made by world-class professionals. You made us laugh and cry. Thanks for all the good times. I say that in all honesty. But there are really different times now. The technology has overtaken you, and your ideas are just as outdated. If you find us tokkies and lesser people, you probably don't want our money either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u59	Mr. Chairman. I'll start my speech with a short listener. I'll start with an introduction that will take us to my young years. Then I will look at the objectives of the Media Act, zoom in on the opportunities created for producers from outside to have direct access to the public system, and I will focus on new roles and responsibilities between the NPO and the broadcasting associations. This brings me to the role of public service broadcasting in the rapidly changing media landscape, in particular the digital world. From there it is a small step towards the beautiful medium radio. As a politician from the beautiful province of Groningen, I believe that regional broadcasting must not be missed. I will end my speech with a strong appeal for greater transparency in public service broadcasting. The start of my media career was quite international. I grew up in beautiful Haaksbergen, about four kilometers from the German border. Thanks to this small distance we did not have only two TV channels at home, but about five and, if the wind was very favourable, sometimes even a very small chance at no less than six channels. That opened up all kinds of new possibilities. As a little Twente boy of about three years old I watched Die Sendung mit der Maus on a baking animal from a black and white television. This was regularly followed by Sesamestrasse. I loved that and I didn't notice that I also learned German unnoticed. Long live the border! It was the time when the media landscape was clear. The Netherlands had two TV channels. In addition, there were four public radio stations and a regional radio station in each region. The international character increased when the cable TV was available in the early 1980s. The black and white TV was now exchanged for a baking animal of a colour TV. And besides a third public TV network there was also suddenly Sky Channel on display, commercial and in English. Extremely exciting, especially when Linda de Mol appeared with a hugely dressed hairstyle and a talking cat, with which she presented the DJ Kat Show. Do I see a look at the Secretary of State's recognition? It was inevitable that the arrival of cable in every household would lead to the end of the ban on commercial television in the Netherlands. After all, why should we be allowed to look at foreign commercial channels via cable and should this remain prohibited for Dutch commercial channels? Joop van den Ende wanted to seize his chance and did everything he could to start broadcasting from the Netherlands at the end of 1989 with a real Dutch channel. Success seemed assured until resistance emerged from the ranks of some political parties. Public service broadcasting should be protected from commercial violence. That resistance worked. The Media Commissioner had no choice but to deny Joop van den Ende's TV 10 access to the cable. However, the political action to protect public service broadcasting from the arrival of a commercial channel proved to be a pyrrus victory. RTL Veronique, set up at the same time as TV 10 but officially not a Dutch station but a Luxembourg station, started broadcasting in 1989. Nothing or no one in Dutch politics could do anything about that. A year later, Joop van den Ende brought all his stars to RTL Veronique, renamed the station "RTL 4" and commercial television was at least as popular and relevant as public service broadcasting. In the meantime, all this seems a long time ago. Commercial TV and radio are now allowed and are an essential part of the media offering in the Netherlands. This has led to enormous diversity and an offer that is available to everyone. Moreover, the media sector is a huge innovator. Dutch producers make programs and concepts that go around the world, from Lingo to Big Brother to The Voice. Why is it important to consider these lessons from the past? Because these lessons teach us that a multiform, relevant and innovative media landscape benefits from a government that doesn't stop but is moving along. If the world of the media changes, it is essential that the government and legislation change along with it. As far as the VVD is concerned, we must look at the current changes to the Media Act and the role of Dutch public service broadcasting with that realistic and optimistic look. The VVD welcomes the proposed amendment. With the change, we are taking a major step towards modernising public service broadcasting. This already leads to questions!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u60	I was waiting, because Mr Rutte's historical sketch was worth listening to. But today, of course, it's about this law. A year ago, the Secretary of State chose the strategy to go to a ship and say with very big words: I am going to change public service broadcasting completely and break the order completely open. Mr Rutte now seems to choose to use a long historical sketch to cover something up. I just ask him: isn't it true that in the past year the VVD has had to give about everything in this law to the Labour Party, and that the VVD doesn't really look back on its own original plans for public service broadcasting? How does Mr Rutte indicate this defeat of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u61	There is no defeat. I do not recognize myself at all in this story by Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u62	Can Mr Rutte say a little more about the difference between what was the proposals of the Secretary of State and the VVD Group a year ago and what is now? Can Mr Rutte mention a number of points which have been completely watered down? Do you think he'd like to go into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u63	I want to go into everything, but I am really still at the beginning of my speech. I just had my introduction and I wanted to dive into the content. That is something Mr Verhoeven can wait for. I'll tell you later. However, I would like to clarify a few things already. It is important for the VVD that public service broadcasting should confine itself to the core objectives. They're clear in the law. Each programme must comply with this requirement. That is also being dealt with here. We think that is very important. In addition, the system is being broken open, so that people from outside, doing things that may not be visible in public service broadcasting, get a place. That's incredibly important. That is what the Secretary of State promised, and that is what is regulated by this legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u64	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u65	That's what I'm gonna do. Public service broadcasting has strong objectives to maximise and distinguish the public role in the dynamic media landscape. Every programme, whether online, on the radio or on the TV, should contribute to the core objectives of the Media Act, information, education and culture. That's a long-cherished wish from the VVD. This course was also strongly advised by the Culture Council more than a year ago. Now that course becomes law. With this we ensure that Dutch public service broadcasting remains relevant and that its right to exist remains guaranteed. As far as the VVD is concerned, it must be clear that any programme that will be broadcast by the NPO contributes to the public objectives of information, education and culture. The Secretary of State is also clear about this in his reply to the written questions. However, the NPO still leaves it in the middle of its concession policy plan. The Media Commissioner gave firm comments on the concession policy plan in his advice. The Commissioner advocates the establishment of a clear review framework for each programme to assess its contribution to the public key objectives. The VVD agrees. How will the Secretary of State ensure that a review framework is in place? Is he prepared to have the review framework assessed by the independent Media Commissioner? Is he prepared to make his approval of the concession policy plan conditional on the advent of a review framework that the Media Commissioner can pass the test? Does he agree with the VVD that the outcome of the review of the programmes should be transparent, transparent and consultable for everyone? I'd like to get a reaction to this. The bill will make the public media landscape more accessible to outside parties who make beautiful programmes that meet the public core objectives. In other words, the public media landscape is becoming more accessible to those who are creating offers that may not yet be foreseen. This creates more competition on content and generates innovation. The part of the programming that comes from outside can amount to as much as 50% of the programme budget. This makes public service broadcasting, even more so than it is today, a broadcasting service of and for all Dutch. There are 3.5 million members, but there are 17 million Dutch. The VVD welcomes this development. Perhaps Mr Klein is not, because I see that he wants to ask a question about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u66	Mr Rutte praises the idea of the outside producers. According to him, these independent producers can just get in. I have read the law well and I think this is a bit of a dead sparrow. You can offer it. Then the broadcaster can say that it does not. The only possibility is that the NPO obliges the NTR to put this in. If the NTR does not want to do so, it can, because the NTR also has its own decision-making, with its own editorial board and its own independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u67	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u68	So isn't it a completely dead sparrow? You think that something can come in from the outside, when in fact it doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u69	I do not share Mr Klein's gloom at all. We are creating, with as much as half of the public service broadcasting budget, the opportunity for people from outside to get a foothold in public service broadcasting. These may be large producers, who are often able to find their way to public service broadcasting, but they may also be smaller innovative parties, who cannot now find a platform for their broadcasting. As a result, public service broadcasting becomes a multiplier and may even get much better. I'm not gloomy about it at all. I'm going to say a few things about the supporting role that broadcasters have in this, but I don't need to find a dead sparrow right away. Why is Mr Klein so gloomy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u70	It's two things. It's about the laws in the Media Act. This explicitly refers to the accession of outside producers, the external partners. It is also about how to ensure that outside producers can participate actively in the programmes of public service broadcasting, of the broadcaster. That's happening already, isn't it? It is 30.6%, while the European minimum requirement is 10% and the Dutch minimum requirement is 16.5%. There are therefore opportunities for large and small companies to supply their services within the public service broadcasting sector, within the broadcasting associations, within the task organisations. The provisions currently in force are therefore merely a dead sparrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u71	I do not understand Mr Klein very well. I'm excited about the changes. Next, Mr Klein says that it can all be done now, although there are changes in the law. I'm excited about that, but I don't think Mr Klein does. I don't know why he's so gloomy to me. I'm really excited about this being possible. I hope that Mr Klein will be, too; that would be nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u72	I would remind Members once again that interruptions are intended to raise questions and, secondly, to put a brief follow-up question. Mr Rutte continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u73	Whether those outside producers can really get a foothold in the public landscape depends on how the NPO is going to give its new legal role in practice hands and feet. Is the NPO really looking for what is not yet or hardly visible and belongs to public service broadcasting? Is the NPO really going to actively invite producers to create programmes to fill those gaps? In the concept concession policy plan it is all very economical. Does the Secretary of State agree with the VVD that the NPO should show much more ambition in this respect? This is an essential point of the new Media Act and an essential new responsibility of the NPO. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take this into account in his assessment of the concession policy plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u74	Mr Rutte touches on an interesting point. He asks a question about which the Secretary of State is much sharper in his written reply. In the written reply to the parliamentary questions, he wrote that what is contained in the concession policy plan is contrary to the law. Last week we received an explanation from the broadcasters and the NPO of what they advocated with the concession policy plan. This shows that they have listened carefully to the opinion of the Culture Council and that there needs to be more access for outside producers. Does the VVD Group find the reading contained in this letter to be contrary to the law now before us?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u75	The VVD Group believes it is important that the NPO actively seeks out people from outside the system for programmes that are not yet or to an insufficient extent visible in public service broadcasting. If the NPO now takes additional steps in relation to what he himself wrote down in the concession policy plan, that is good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u76	It is very nice that the VVD spokesperson repeats his speech just now, but that is not an answer to my question. In the written reply, the State Secretary states that the concession policy plan is contrary to the law on this point. The broadcasters and the NPO have sent a letter explaining how to give outside producers access to the order, in line with the report of the Culture Council. We all received that letter. Does the VVD Group find what is in that letter to be contrary to the law we are discussing tonight? This seems to me to be relevant to other groups, like all the groups that supported the Van Dijk motion last year, for their consideration of this bill. Is this reading contrary to the law or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u77	I'm not talking about the Secretary of State's words. He's gonna have to explain that to himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u78	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, but I'm not asking the Secretary of State, I'm asking the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u79	The VVD spokesperson deals with his own words.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u80	Mr Heerma can be very pissed, but I try to answer his question in peace. The words "in violation of the law" are from the Secretary of State; I did not use them. I want the NPO to show ambition on this point. I think it's an important part of the law. If the NPO now shows more ambition than in the initial concession policy plan, that is a step in the right direction. I am very curious how the Secretary of State can encourage the NPO to achieve maximum ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u81	On 24 November 2014, the Van Dijk motion was adopted, which states that broadcasters should always act as co-producer in the recruitment of external producers. That is what Mr Rutte is talking about. Does he share the view that this motion has been adopted and that it should be the starting point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u82	The motion has been passed. I assume that this is the second part of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u83	Yes, that motion has been passed. We also see the starting point for broadcasting as a co-producer. I will have some additional questions about the precise interpretation later, but adopted motions will have to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u84	That's great. We therefore agree that broadcasters should act as co-producer in this proposal to allow external organisations to join the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u85	Mr Van Dijk is now pretending to be something new, but I think it is in line with what we are dealing with here. It is important to see exactly how far-reaching this co-production is. I'd like to ask you a few questions about that. I think Mr Segers is interested in something else, because he's at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u86	Sure, I'm very interested in this. Consensus was reached in Hilversum on how to deal with each other in these new relationships. There are people coming from outside and there is a relationship between the NPO and the broadcasters. There's a Chamber ruling and there's a concession policy plan NPO. There seems to be some form of consensus. Does the VVD Group agree with the consensus that has been found? Is that indeed the starting point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u87	It's a good start. Let me leave it at that. It is a good start that parties have come to some agreement on how they want to do it. If we adopt this law and say that half of the budget can in principle be available to outside parties, the NPO will have the task of really looking at what is not to be seen and belong to the public service at the moment. I do think we should take this task seriously too. There is therefore a good deal of ambition in this area. But the fact that parties agree on the method of working is only good. I'd rather that than let them roll down the street.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u88	We have just heard a number of words from Mr Verhoeven about the broadcasters. He said they're just hidden remains, that they're something from the past. Can Mr Rutte also see the value of the broadcasters? Can he see them as carriers of pluralism, of a multicolor with creativity, with added value? Is this also a starting point for him in further thinking about the interplay between the NPO, outside producers and the various broadcasters?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u89	I can go back to the text I just said. We are now basically making it possible for 50% of the budget to be made available to outside parties. You don't have to. It is also available to broadcasters to consider, in a competitive situation, how best to fulfil this task for the public service. I'm okay with that. That is why public broadcasting has become more of all Dutch. I said that there are 3.5 million Members, so that has value. But there are also 17 million Dutch. I think we can find a good balance in this with this amendment of the law. I will continue my speech. As soon as a programme or a programme idea of an outside producer is notified to the NPO, the NPO must try to place this programme with a broadcaster, as the law regulates. If no broadcaster is interested, the program is assigned to the NTR. But what happens next? The explanatory memorandum states that the broadcaster making a proposal with an independent producer is always a co-producer. That is what Mr Van Dijk said. But what exactly is that supposed to mean? Is this merely a technical definition of the method of cooperation or does co-production mean that broadcasters also have control over the intellectual property of the ideas behind the programme? Will broadcasters also have an influence on the content and creative choices to be made? Indeed, if co-production extends so far, it is doubtful whether many independent producers will be interested in public service broadcasting as a platform. You might lose your intellectual property and your creative autonomy. I don't think that's the idea. Or isn't the soup being eaten so hot? I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. Partly because of the possibility for independent producers to access the order, the Media Act regulates new relationships between broadcasters and the NPO. The broadcasters and the independent producers are producing........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The temporary agency guarantees are going down. The NPO ensures a coherent programming and places the programmes offered on the channel, time and time of the programme, which is the medium to which that programme best fits. Following the Council for Culture, the VVD is a strong supporter of the introduction of editors-in-chief. The Culture Council and the NPO still call them genre coordinators who, in a logical and coherent way, allow a certain genre to be brought to its fore through smart and coherent programming. It is a bit disappointing that the NPO does not get any further than a pilot with one genre coordinator in the concession policy plan. There is very little ambition there. Does the Secretary of State agree with the VVD that the NPO should be more ambitious in this respect? Does he also include the degree of ambition the NPO has in this regard in its assessment of the concession policy plan? Finally, how does this relate to maintaining network coordinators? I heard Mr Verhoeven on that too. Is that a phenomenon from the last decade or does it fit here? I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. As I mentioned earlier in my speech, it is very important that developments in the international media landscape are embraced by public service broadcasting and are not combated or stopped. The developments are enormous. Many people still watch linear television and listen to the radio a lot. But in the generation under 18, there is a revolution going on. Mr Bosma referred to it just now. There is not the television, but the smartphone is the most widely used media device. As far as television is concerned, it is not linear, but programmes are watched whenever one wants. More and more TV or TV shows are completely ignored. Young people are watching vloggers on YouTube. So there is no producer at all, let alone a broadcaster. Content is widely shared and commented on through social media. Those who want to watch series and films legally at any time, since the arrival of Netflix in the Netherlands, the world has been at their feet for a small amount per month. And now there are also other providers. The exact number of subscribers in the Netherlands does not give up Netflix. A year ago, however, external research showed that a million Dutch people already had access to Netflix, after one year of presence in the Netherlands. All the evidence suggests that this development is continuing. Those who want to listen to music can take on an infinite range of playlists through providers like Spotify. Everyone has the opportunity to be a consumer and a producer at the same time. Anytime, anywhere. And is that revolution limited to children under the age of 18? Definitely not. In the group between 18 and 34 years, the share of television viewing decreased by 4% in 2012. A year later, between 2013 and 2014, this decreased by 10,4%. Those are all old numbers. Everything indicates it's only going faster. It is precisely in this group that more and more people simply cancel their television subscription. That would have been unthinkable five years ago. Given the media revolution that is going on, it is good that the NPO is able to respond to this. This should not be done by creating a Netflix of your own, but by joining forces. As far as the VVD is concerned, the NPO is now going to ensure that the public broadcaster is where the viewers and the listeners are. This requires intensive, smart and flexible partnerships with the new media players in today's world, such as Youtube and Netflix. This keeps the programmes of public service broadcasting relevant, interesting and especially accessible, including for younger generations. This also offers enormous opportunities for making public broadcasting programmes available to an international public. The Danish and Swedish public broadcasters are already doing some of this successfully via Netflix. In that light, the VVD looks with frowned eyebrows at the NPO's intention to establish its own payment platform: NPO Plus. It is an attempt to halt unstoppable international and social development by creating a new platform. The VVD does not believe in this and sees much more in collaboration with existing platforms. What is the Secretary of State's opinion? It's a small step from the digital world to the world of radio. The new Media Act will also apply to public radio stations. As far as the VVD is concerned, it is very important that the radio landscape in the Netherlands is multiform. This is the case in terms of number of channels: there is a wide range of public and commercial channels. But how big is the pluralism when you look at the radio?You better say: does the music listen to the content, especially when it comes to music? Mr Bosma said that if you like golden oldies, you are well served, both commercially and extensively on public broadcasting. But many types of music can hardly be heard on Dutch radio. Jazz is currently operated on NPO Radio 6, but that transmitter disappears. The jazz should do it in the future with a small spot on Radio 2 and an online theme channel for which €150,000 is available. But not only the jazz comes off badly. Those who like country, americana, chansons, schlagers or rockabilly are not served by the NPO Radio. The fans of the Dutch product also come from it very badly. There's a theme channel, but in the ether you're usually unlucky. Is it not the task of public service broadcasting to show what is not or hardly to be heard elsewhere? And vice versa: what is the public value of what is already widely available elsewhere in the radio landscape? Does the Secretary of State agree with the VVD that the current course of NPO Radio does not lead to enrichment, but to a deterioration of the radio landscape? Is he prepared to take action in this respect and thus contribute to an actual multiform radio landscape? In July, the Chamber voted by a large majority in favour of a motion by SP, Labour Party, VVD, CDA and D66, stating that commercial radio licences should be renewed instead of auctioned. The extension is mainly the result of our colleagues dealing with Economic Affairs. However, a component runs through OCW: broadening the ownership restrictions on the radio lots, as described in that motion. The VVD assumes that this extension is in line with the entry into force of the Media Act. Can the Secretary of State confirm this? The VVD has another concern regarding the radio landscape. The public channels NPO Radio 2 and NPO Radio 3 regularly give away cards for performances by bands like U2, Counting Crows or Racoon and for music festivals like Pinkpop, Lowlands and Black Cross. The NPO also often has exclusive broadcasting rights for major music festivals. The station NPO 3FM connects its own name to the performances of major artists. Think of actions like "3FM presents U2 in the Zigo Dome," or "3FM presents The Prodigy in the Heinen Music Hall." It is not clear whether the programmers of these festivals and performances actually pay for these actions. If payment is made, it is completely unclear what agreements have been made. That is worrying, because these programmers are not public institutions, but simply very large commercial companies. This raises the question whether the NPO does not make itself available to commerce by this method; something explicitly prohibited in the Media Act, Mr Verhoeven said it. It disrupts the level playing field in the media landscape. Does the Secretary of State share the concern of the VVD about this state of affairs and is he prepared to ask the NPO for clarification and, if necessary, to act against this method? I'll round up the radio block and move on to the regional network. The VVD wishes to stress the good work done by regional broadcasters in the ROOS cooperative to come up with a plan to achieve the required 17 million targets, but regional editors remain fully committed. That's a very good performance. During the changes that are to take place, the Secretary of State in his letter considered the unique position of the Frisian language, our second state language. The VVD would like to see the position of the Fries guaranteed on the supervisory board of a new regional public service broadcaster; the RPO. Is the Secretary of State prepared to ensure that one of the Commissioners on the Supervisory Board will pay particular attention to the position of the Frisian language? Mr Segers is stepping up. He hears "Friesian language" and thinks: I want to know more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u90	I lived in Leeuwarden for 15 years, so I have some connection to that province. It is a special province, because it speaks the second language of our country. There is a committee called Hoekstra, which says that broadcasting is very important in order to protect that language. Now Stateswide has adopted a motion stating that there should be a special position for Omrop Fryslân. The VVD Group in the States of Friesland also thinks so. Is that a statement that the VVD group listens to very well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u91	I think it has already been listened to, because the specific position of the Frisian language has been secured in the proposals as they are here. I would ask for extra attention to be paid to this through the Supervisory Board of the RPO. I am firmly convinced that this has sufficiently secured the position of the Frisian language.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u92	Your group in the States also asks for more than that and says: it justifies a special position of Omrop Fryslân, because only then is the protection guaranteed the language and the facilitation of the language. Is that the extra step that the VVD Group would like to take here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u93	I can't quite place the concern comes from. I know that in Friesland there are always concerns about the Frisian language and about whether there is sufficient attention to it. The Secretary of State has written a very good letter on this subject, in which he specifically pays attention to the Frisian language for two pages. He notes that it has a different position, not only within the province of Friesland, but also within the Netherlands. I think that is enough to ensure that this attention is there. But I'd like to make sure. I think that in the Supervisory Board of the RPO, which is going to be at some distance after all, that attention should be specifically secured. I believe that this can also remove the concerns of the Frisian States.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u94	Mr Rutte continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u95	I would like to end with a point that has long been of great importance to the VVD: much more transparency in the use of public money by public service broadcasters. My colleague Elias has often insisted on this in the recent past. Public money requires transparent public accountability. The Dutch taxpayer is simply entitled to that. For him, the course of the rights for the football honor division was rightly the great stone of the offense. Why should we not know afterwards what was paid for these rights? Why should we not know what additional agreements have been reached on the acquisition of these rights? Mr Elias did not let go, and that turned out to be right: the NOS had made agreements that were not in accordance with the law. You could say that the content of the transmission time was partly made by the Star and by FOX. Public broadcasting! A ludicrous course of action, in which even the NPO of the NIS did not get a proper understanding of the agreements and the figures, while it was really a big amount of public money. It is a good thing that we have a strict Media Commissioner in our country. Recently, the ongoing soap opera around the cost of the King's song again showed what kind of idiotic displays can lead to the lack of transparency of the NPO. The day you knew it would come has not come, namely that of 100% clarity about the spending of the NPO at the King's Song. The cost overview was wobbled, all amounts were blacked out, the NOS drew an understandable conclusion, which turned out not to be true after all and the NPO got angry at the NOS, because the latter would have done bad journalism. It is sad, however, that a public service broadcaster that takes everyone's standards is not prepared to be transparent about the costs! As far as the VVD is concerned, it is clear: public money requires clear public accountability. In the case of the NPO, this should logically be done at programme level, of course afterwards, not in advance. All other public sectors preceded the NPO. It is high time the NPO realized that the time of excuses is now really over. I would ask the Secretary of State to make this a tough point in his final assessment of the concession policy plan. He has the full support of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u96	We have just heard Mr Bosma in detail vent his political opinion, and that is his right in this Chamber to talk about the colourful coverage of public service broadcasting. Now Mr Rutte says: I want to see the receipt of every programme. Are we not taking a very dangerous risk that politicians who have a very strong opinion about public service broadcasting and find everything coloured will use their opinion and influence on the content of programmes on the basis of transparency? That is what I am asking Mr Rutte, and I would like to hear an answer that is longer than four words, because I think this is a serious point. Isn't that a life-threatening and real risk associated with the VVD's proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u97	Public money requires public accountability, in a public debate. The public debate is not just taking place here. It also takes place in society. People need to be able to see that. Mr Verhoeven himself is someone who would like to see it. He constantly asks questions, for example about the King's Song. He asks all kinds of questions to the level of detail. Did you get paid? How much was paid? All things he just wants to know, at least until recently he wanted to know them. Now he only wants to know them at the genre level at once. I don't understand. Let us now be transparent. He points out as a risk that politicians would then turn to the content. I only know about the costs afterwards, don't I? I think that's important. It has to be transparent. I'm totally not interested in sending on the content of programs. He did not hear me say that, and he did not hear other speakers say that either. Perhaps Mr Bosma, but since when has Mr Bosma been the norm for everything and everyone in this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u98	I agree with Mr Rutte, but he was just talking about public service broadcasting, which everyone always takes the measure. That's what he literally said. In doing so, he also gives an opinion on the way in which public service broadcasting moves in terms of content in the public debate. That's all fine. I ask Mr Rutte whether the temptation will not be very great if he sees the receipts from all the programmes, on the basis of those receipts, to constantly attack certain programmes which he does not like and thus to touch journalistic independence. Yes, I am also in favour of transparency, but I think you should look beyond transparency. This is another very important right in any rule of law, namely free media. Has the VVD-group made such a careful assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u99	I am quite right to say that the NPO measures others, because that is also the task of the NPO: news and information, but also opinion. The latter is something that Mr Verhoeven considers to be extremely important and people are taken the measure. We have consumer programmes in which sometimes painful things are dug up. Things will be sorted out, the receipts will be on the table and they will be said to be a disgrace. Anyone who has that social role and does not dare to be transparent himself loses his credibility. It is precisely because of the love of public service broadcasting that I say that public service broadcasting must be transparent up to the programme level. Mr Verhoeven has always found that, but he has come to a new understanding at once, and that is a pity. I conclude on the basis of the questions he asks, also about the King's Song. For example, he asked how much compensation the NOS and NPO Radio 2 received for the promotion of the King's Song. Those are very detailed questions, almost up to programme level. Let us make this transparent. I am simply quoting a few questions from Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u100	Mr Bosma, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u101	Finally?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u102	I thought you'd finished your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u103	That's correct. All I had to do was stand here: Chairman, I look forward to the answers of the Secretary of State. If that means that Mr Bosma is no longer allowed to ask a question, then I have not yet said so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u104	I didn't mean to. I heard you put an end to your speech and I saw that Mr Bosma still had a question to ask you before you went back to your place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u105	I have been a media spokesperson on behalf of my group since 2006. I have seen generations of media spokesmen from the VVD: Mrs Van Miltenburg, Johan Remkes, Ton Elias. They're coming and they're going again. Every time I think, "Maybe there's a liberal in there right now." That would be nice for a change. Liberals often talk about a small government. They say you have to think about what the government should and shouldn't do. They want lower taxes. This is a wonderful dossier to release liberalism. Why does the VVD not want to talk about the possibility that Dutch people who want nothing to do with it no longer have to pay for public service broadcasting? It's got to be optional somehow. If you don't look at it, you don't pay for it. It is very liberal to strive for it. Why doesn't this media spokesperson of the VVD just make that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u106	You'd almost think Mr. Bosma would like to go back to the time of watching and listening money, back to the old days. Then people came knocking on the door to see if there was a TV in the kitchen cupboard. I remember that from my college days. Then they invaded and then the TV was quickly hidden. Then everyone said there was no TV, but then the snaky civil servant always knew where to find a radio and you still had to pay. I wouldn't want that time back. We pay public service broadcasting from the general budget because public service broadcasting serves a public interest. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u107	It's kind of a night of youth sentiment: back when I was in college, DJ Kat, well, it's all okay. Why should the Dutch be forced to pay for it if they do not want it at all? I'm a media spokesperson. I have to look at it, but it hurts my eyes. I really need to keep my eyes open to watch the television channel's monkey. It's really disgusting, especially what's going on these weeks and months. I don't want to pay for it. Thomas Jefferson writes that it is immoral to have to pay for propaganda that is directed against you. Is there no element in Mr Rutte's thinking to stop doing so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u108	It is clear that Dutch public service broadcasting is extremely irritating to Mr Bosma. We have just heard that, and he feels that again. We simply pay public service broadcasting from the general funds, with taxpayers' money, as we pay a lot of public service tasks with taxpayers' money. There are people, perhaps Mr Bosma is one of those, but I don't really believe that they never go by train, but they do pay for rail transport. There are people without cars who always go by train, but they pay for roads. That's the way it is in a country. It is up to us here in this Chamber to decide with each other what we believe belongs to the public domain and what does not. We determine what we are taxing and what we are not taxing for. Mr Bosma believes that we do not have to spend money on public service broadcasting because he is annoyed by it. The VVD does attach importance to public service broadcasting, but to a public service broadcaster that confines itself to its core objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u109	I'd almost say we also have a remote control.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u110	I'm not just gonna leave!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u111	No, I'm looking at Mr. Bosma. He can also zap. But all the crazy on a stick. I shall come back to transparency. Mr Rutte and I both want more transparency than is currently the case. The cabinet proposal clearly states that transparency is not intended to be organised in such a way that public service broadcasting becomes a game of politics. I have heard Mr Rutte's plea that it should be at programme level. I'd like to make that punch, but at genre level. We can differ on that. I would also point out that we must be careful not to turn broadcasting into a game ball. That is the danger of Mr Rutte's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u112	I hear Mr Mohandis saying the same thing I just heard Mr Verhoeven say. Apparently, there's a concern. I sincerely do not share that concern. I don't share her. In fact, I think it would be bad for public service broadcasting if we were still only limited in transparency. The problems with the Honorary Division deal still remain with transparency at genre level. They are then muffled away in the very large part of sport. The whole thing with the King's song is still shady. I find it bad for the public service when there is a hint of gloom around it. If you love public service broadcasting, you will have to have the courage to opt for transparency, up to the programme level. I'm really convinced of that. It may be an aggregated level of a whole year of one programme, it really does not have to be every receipt for each programme. If broadcasters dare to do so, fine, but I really choose to be transparent at programme level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u113	It seems almost a weakening of the previous proposal. I think it is important to say that we also have a Commissioner for the Media. Will Mr Rutte lift this? The Commissioner is the independent watchdog to ensure that it is done properly. Once again, we really need to beware of the situation. This is not a direct reproach to Mr Rutte personally that politicians are going to decide whether a programme costs too much. This also affects editorial independence. I do not want to discuss whether the ticket of the NOS journalist, who had to take something abroad or bring us something, could have been cheaper. We must be careful not to undermine constitutionally secured editorial freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u114	I am in no way in favour of damaging editorial freedom. I didn't ask about that either. All I am asking is for transparency to be applied to amounts. That would only strengthen the network. If we do not do this, then we are not talking about this as politicians. That's not true. You see now that politicians are trying to get information over and over again, finally through the Secretary of State. I find that not only very expensive, but also cumbersome. It would be so much better if we could see this in advance. That's the point. It is good for public service broadcasting if it is transparent, as is normal elsewhere in the public sector. I look forward to the Secretary of State's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u115	We all look forward to that. I call Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u116	Mr. Chairman. For GroenLinks, the importance and added value of our public broadcasting system are not at issue. It guarantees independence, diversity, pluralism and quality of what we get from important media such as television and radio. Contrary to commercial broadcasting, public service broadcasting can afford not to allow ratings to be the ultimate measure, but to be critical, both with regard to government, and with regard to forces in society, as well as to commercial parties. I can't imagine a real democracy without independent public service broadcasting. The opposite is also true. Any regime that tries to destroy democracy will be the first to tackle the independence of its public channels. Even here in the Dutch Parliament earlier this evening we heard a party who likes to talk about a fake parliament, which constantly calls to speak on behalf of Dutch society as a whole, while the party still represents a modest minority even in the most favourable polls, and which has already begun the introductory shootings on the independence of our public service broadcasting. A huge litany, which I can summarize in half a sentence: if public service broadcasting does not talk to us, then we simply stop funding. We must therefore continue to invest in independent, strong, pluralistic and critical broadcasting, not only at national level, but also at regional and local level. We are therefore not under any illusions that we have looked at the cuts in public service broadcasting in recent years: at Rutte I 200 million and at Rutte II another 50 million. They're huge amounts of money. These amounts may be at the expense of the quality of public service broadcasting. Instead, public service broadcasting needs to attract more own resources, with an increasing risk that ratings and advertising revenues will in any way be a bit of a service. As far as we're concerned, there's a limit here. We would prefer public service broadcasting to continue to do what we have created it for: making quality programmes, not bringing in more and more advertising money. GroenLinks believes, however, that public broadcasting needs to be made more future-proof. Let us note that the present system of broadcasting is still to a large extent a remnant of the long-lost period of cover-up. Society has fundamentally changed since then. Watching and listening behaviour is also changing enormously, under the influence of computer and internet. That's what you need to play on. Where previously only TV programmes and radio broadcasts were watched and listened to linearly, an increasingly large group will watch these programs in a different way: via Broadcast Missed, on smart TV or over the Internet. We go from an offer-driven model to a situation in which the viewer himself looks for what he or she wants to see, at his or her own chosen moment. This fits current society and the need to be able to organise your own life according to your own standards. Public service broadcasting must continue to be able to respond to these changes. This change of law makes a move from the old closed system, in which broadcasters had the primacy, to a system in which the central organisation NPO has an important role. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance supports this movement on the main lines. However, we have some very critical questions in a number of areas. My group would like to make a few comments on the governance of public service broadcasting. The adaptation of the State Secretary basically creates a hybrid system in which the NPO becomes more direct, but the broadcasters still exist. The question arises as to what is the final picture of the government of public service broadcasting. Looks like some kind of intermediate form has been chosen here. In this intermediate form, there is a greater risk that checks-and-balances are not properly regulated. However, they are very important, because that is what the pluralism stands for. The Council of State is quite critical on this point and states that I quote: legal provisions are necessary with regard to the NPO in order to ensure the pluralism and independence of the public media. I would very much like the Secretary of State to take that up. We take this point very seriously. The question could be asked as to whether adequate provision has now been made for this. We have doubts about that. There's been a lot of talk about entertainment. It was almost entertainment. That was accompanied by the mention of individual programmes, such as... I am not going to say that, because I do not want to do that. However, the discussion on the definition of entertainment is relevant. Does something really change now or does everything really stick to the old? The latter would not be so desirable for my group. It is a nuanced discussion and it must remain so. It is important, however, that we move in a direction in which public service broadcasting is complementary and precisely fulfils the role that cannot simply be left to the market. I would like the Secretary of State to respond to what he means by entertainment and how we should deal with that definition. We believe that the core tasks in this respect should be better defined, a little more stringent, so that the NPO can make a clear review framework. The present law also lacks this clear definition. That is why it is wise, if the law is amended, to fill that gap. In recent times, this debate has mainly been conducted in a way that perhaps we should not. That does not alter the fact that it is an important discussion. I'd like to have a response from the Secretary of State. I come to the opening up of the broadcasting system. My group welcomes the fact that other parties than broadcasters also have access to public service broadcasting. This can contribute to further pluralism and competition in public service broadcasting. However, we do have questions about how this is going to work. These are in line with the criticisms voiced by the Culture Council, among others. It all seems to be being organized very bureaucratic now. An external party has to take a lot of hurdles in order to finally get in. Each point of contact can make its own demands. It may well be that, if they are added together, these demands eventually lead to a closed door. Can the Secretary of State respond to this criticism and explain how this openness is actually achieved? My group is also curious about the possibilities if a conflict arises. Is there an appeal? Looks like there isn't one. My group is disappointed by the proposed reduction of 17 million on regional broadcasters. That amount is a significant amount out of the 142 million available for this purpose. The cuts are dismissed by the Secretary of State as a matter of efficiency. Broadcasts could save this money by working more closely with each other. As of January 1st, they will be governed by the National Regional Public Broadcasting Foundation (RPO). My group can get rid of this construction, but it doubts whether it can go hand in hand with this saving. Even if this money could be saved, as far as the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is concerned, we should invest it directly again in local and regional broadcasting. That is why I ask the Secretary of State how he gets that amount of 17 million for efficiency savings. I also ask him whether he is prepared to simply delete this cut, or at least not have it printed on the local and regional media. My group believes that strong regional and local broadcasters are of great importance. They are also a bit the watchdog of local democracy. Local and regional media in the wider sense are relatively weak in the Netherlands and are also becoming weaker in recent years. In this context, I would also mention the regionally written press. It has to do with fewer people every year and can therefore follow provincial and local politics at a lower level every year. Why, in such a situation, continue to nibble on those regional broadcasters? My group is surprised at the fact that there is virtually no mention of local broadcasting. Can the Secretary of State go into the role of local broadcasters in this order again? How does he feel about that? I come to transparency. Public spending must be accounted for. That is a general point of departure which my group supports. It is an important good that should be somewhat detached from all sorts of fears about exactly what would happen to that data. For example, there has always been a great deal of fear about publicising the spending, fees and declarations of directors in the public sector. In the meantime, we've gotten used to that and we wouldn't want to get rid of it. This is a function, isn't it? My group reads in the NPO concession policy plan that public service broadcasting does not want to justify at programme level. How does the Secretary of State feel about that? What are the real objections to this? We have, of course, heard a few things about this in the debate. For my group, they are not convincing. We would like the total cost to be made public at programme level. That doesn't mean we want to see every receipt, but transparency is a big good. It is up to politics to deal with that responsibly. I believe that the vast majority of politicians can do that. We may come to an even more detailed discussion on the NPO concession policy plan. In any case, we have an extensive reaction to this, but we cannot see it in isolation. That's why I'm going to say a few things about it. My group is not entirely positive about the NPO Plus channel. The starting point must be that public service broadcasting programmes are accessible to all, not only for payment. The NPO states that NPO Plus would, among other things, be a response to the cuts in recent years. By doing so, the NPO suggests that the maintenance of certain provisions should now be paid at once. Are we talking about a truly additional service at NPO Plus, or are we actually going to pay for what we can find on broadcastgemist.nl at this moment without any cost? If that is the case, at least my group does not consider it acceptable. Another point is that the NPO wants to stop Radio 6, the separate channel for soul and jazz. We believe that public radio stations should offer different styles of music, even if that does not always attract a large group of people. Quantity should not be leading, but diversity. Now that seems to be the opposite. Does the Secretary of State agree with us? Isn't too much currently being directed at generating the maximum number of listeners, which might make musical styles like soul and jazz disappear from the public radio? My final point is about advertising. It is desirable that public service broadcasting should gradually be reduced and perhaps not at all anymore. We can imagine that this is a very big step and that you cannot just take it. However, it is also a fact that commercial parties often criticise the relatively low-cost advertising of public service broadcasting. Public service broadcasting could also offer this more easily, because it is a subsidised channel. Would the Secretary of State care to comment on that? Could policies be used to gradually reduce advertising blocks on public service broadcasting? Perhaps this can be done at the same time as increasing its cost level. This would probably be beneficial to all parties. Finally, I make a suggestion. Maybe we can at least stop advertising on the public television on the Internet. It's a very small income line, but it's extremely annoying that you get unwanted advertising blocks if you just want to see something again. Would the Secretary of State care to comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u117	Before Mr Segers starts his speech, I shall suspend the sitting for a single moment at the request of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u118	Madam President. A word of welcome to the Secretary of State, who looks very relieved. I am also speaking on behalf of Mr Bishop of the SGP Group. Sometimes I scratch behind my ears and wonder why I am so concerned about broadcasting, why I am concerned about an amendment from D66 and why I sit here in this room for hours to talk about a legislative proposal. My group consists of five Members. Many subjects require our attention, and yet I am concerned about this. I have mixed feelings about consumption of radio and TV. As the father of three daughters, I'd rather see my daughters with a book on the couch than hanging in front of the tube. I understand that the Secretary of State agrees with me and does not want to watch television either. Wasn't it Robert Putnam who wrote the book Bowling alone, in which he shows that with the rise of television viewing social cohesion disappears? He has impressive statistics that make it clear that many hours of watching TV are at the expense of volunteering, personal encounters and political engagement. So less hours behind the television does well. At the same time, the Secretary of State is the exception and not the rule. Television is unimaginable. We may look different, but certainly not less. We're watching more and more on demand. More and more households subscribe to Netflix. But broadcasts can also be educational, can inform us, can make us wiser. We can also get closer to each other in a digital way, twilighting about Pauw. Radio and TV may bring us loneliness................................................................................................. When we see that radio and TV occupy such an important place in our culture, it is all the more important that we also seek the good for our society here. In the First Chamber is the report "Disconnected?" published, analysing what went wrong when public interests, higher interests were subordinated to market thinking. A lot of things went wrong back then. It is all the more important to keep an eye on public interests, higher values and not leave everything to the market and not let everything be determined by the market. The same applies to public service broadcasting, especially radio and television. A crucial value at stake here is pluralism, space for difference, especially in the public broadcasting system. At the request of Mr Bosma, I quote one of the archfathers of confessional politics, Abraham Kuyper. Mr Bosma quotes Kuyper from time to time. Abraham Kuyper called uniformity the curse of modern life. I'm gonna tell him that tonight. A public broadcaster as a unitary sausage is a frightening image to me. Today we are talking about the future of public service broadcasting. This amendment constitutes the third part of the triptych of the reform which the Secretary of State had in mind at the beginning of his term of office. It is the effect of his speech on the notorious Veronica ship: more market, less broadcasting. The place he said that was telling. Feel free to call it a provocation. We have a unique public broadcaster, a broadcaster embedded in society through different broadcasting associations. There have been some denigrating words about this in this Chamber, but I am absolutely not doing so. These broadcasters are carriers of pluralism, of versatility, of creativity. Perhaps they are inefficient in the eyes of the Secretary of State, but it is precisely this broadcasting structure that is of great importance to my party because it provides a cooperative basis for broadcasting. This structure does justice to pluralism, to diversity in our society. In the healthcare sector, in education, in neighborhoods, the cabinet is actually trying to give hands and feet to civic participation: more space for citizens to make their voices heard and to participate. In the sector where a cooperative model stands as a house, the cabinet seems to want to get rid of it as quickly as possible. That's weird. It is a wrong and incomprehensible commitment to me. That's why I'm worried about public service broadcasting and I'm following everything that's going on in Hilversum. It's about something. But fortunately that house still stands and is a strong house, the Secretary of State had to leave it for the most part with big words, he had to change his first plans thoroughly and they were contained. However, it is important to note that everything the Secretary of State says publicly about public service broadcasting has been changed with a cloud of dissatisfaction. It is not distinctive, unrecognizable, insufficient eye for young generations, too few innovations, too much entertainment, so on and on. I am afraid that a discussion on whether these are justified criticisms will not yield much this evening. What we can agree on is the broad desire within my group to make broadcasting future-proof. That's what we like to think about. I'd like to unravel the bill a little bit. The task of public service broadcasting is being strengthened. There will be more room for innovation and external parties will have greater access to our system. That is a new way of giving space to diversity, that important value that I have underlined. That might be worth it. That is what we are open to. Meanwhile, the NPO is strengthened, such as the task of the Supervisory Board of the NPO with regard to the performance of the public media mission. A regional public service broadcaster is set up and the fine print of the bill amends this with regard to financial transparency. I would like to go through my group's discussion points. First of all, I come to the relationship between NPO and broadcasters in relation to the concession policy plan. In the explanatory statement, the Secretary of State states that there is currently endless talk about the interests of individual broadcasters on the one hand and the public service broadcasting as a whole on the other. As a solution to this, the Secretary of State opts for a larger NPO, a more central direction, an NPO that will now determine the course of the entire public service broadcasting. But it is precisely this central control that we are looking at with argus eyes. I recall Abraham Kuyper's quote. Pluriformity and diversity are, as far as our group is concerned, one of the main pillars of public service broadcasting. These are guaranteed by the various broadcasting organizations. The silence of broadcasters as much as possible is a political choice of a liberal ruler. Robbery is in nobody's interest and fortunately the current concession policy plan has been established in accordance with the NPO and the broadcasters. So it wasn't an endless swing. Both parties agree and this is an important point of profit. Is the concession policy plan therefore the starting point for the drafting of this law? I'm moving on to the role of the NPO. There is still little clarity about policy after January. Program makers, including outside producers, can pitch to a network and genre manager by subject. It then determines whether the program is created and with how much money. No one knows what criteria are going to be applied. How are creativity and pluralism guaranteed? Does the Secretary of State agree with my group that it is not the responsibility of the NPO to determine the content of programmes? Isn't the Secretary of State afraid that the chance of discontent will increase? Are there enough checks and balances in the law? Who actually oversees the whole thing? How do we prevent legalization and new tricks, but with outside producers? How do we prevent differences of opinion from being fought in appeals and appeals procedures? Would the Media Commissioner not be the most appropriate and appropriate body to monitor this? I also have a question about what this plan is doing with broadcasting employment. When the NPO gets an ever thicker finger on programs and also determines the budget, it also determines the work of makers. But the NPO does not bear any labour law responsibility for those programme makers. Is there a loophole in the law here? The Secretary of State is convinced that an offer of philosophical programmes will be guaranteed in the future. After all, the reflection in the media of the diverse beliefs that our society is rich remains part of the overall legal task of public service broadcasting. However, I would like to make it very clear that this is not a good thing in the law. The fact that there are currently philosophical programmes is mainly a political agreement, and that applies to the present. We see this in the concession policy plan, but we do not have enough guarantee for the future. That is what this law is about, namely the future of public service broadcasting. We don't have enough certainty for the future. In theory, it is then possible that with the occasional invitation of a spiritual leader in a talk show, the public broadcaster fulfils its duties. That's really too skinny, for us and for many others. We advocate room for philosophical programmes and philosophy as an element in other programmes, as an aspect of the task. There is one thing we agree on, namely that philosophical programmes cannot, or can hardly, be achieved by the market. In order to ensure that there are actual programmes on philosophy, I am considering tabling a motion on this point. In this light, I would like to ask for the implementation of a motion on the continuation of the programmes of the former 242 broadcasters, which I tabled together with Mr Heerma. As I understand it, there is still a lot of uncertainty about programs, for example of the Muslim Broadcasting. There has been discussion about the place of the Jewish Broadcasting. It landed at the E.O. Can the Secretary of State tell us how the embedding in the NTR and other broadcasters has gotten hands and feet? Is this aspect also sufficiently future-proof? Now transparency. In the fine print of this law a major change is envisaged: making it possible to understand costs at programme level. We have just had a discussion on how far political control of broadcasting is going. My group is in favour of transparency, and who is not in favour of transparency? But not from a political discussion on the content of programmes and not from a political discussion on receipts programmes. As a solution, we see a major role for the Media Commissioner. If this is given the task of also monitoring the legality of expenditure on the NPO's resources, the desired independence of public service broadcasting will remain guaranteed. We have two amendments to this effect. The first amendment provides that the detailed rules that can be laid down will also be passed here by means of a pending procedure. With the second amendment we want to regulate the important role of the Commissioner. I'm curious to hear the Secretary of State's response. Another important point in the relationship between politics and broadcasting is the appointment of the Board of Directors. This is still a political appointment on paper; on a proposal from the Supervisory Board, but still a political appointment. Mr Bosma always reminds us that broadcasting should not be a state service. We can certainly take steps in this respect. According to our group, politics is too close. Independence is a great asset. For example, you can look at education, where the supervisory boards appoint the boards of directors. We would like to table such a proposal together with the PvdA Group. For local broadcasters, further legislation will follow in spring 2016. There's a 17-million-dollar mission. Regional broadcasting represents its biggest reorganisation ever. The time span is tight and the time pressure is high. For us, regional identity is also guaranteed in a nation-wide organization. We are also talking about pluralism and diversity. We hear from the field concerns about the second phase of that bill. We believe it is important for the Secretary of State to clarify already today that, within the concession of regional public service broadcasting, the position of broadcasters, their anchoring in regional society, the channels of supply and the transmission are given a legal basis. I agree with the questions asked about sparsely populated provinces: is there enough room for real regional broadcasting? I'd like a response to that point. The Christian Union stresses the special position of Omrop Fryslân and wants to put a line on that. I have already pointed this out in the case of interruption. The Hoekstra Committee has spoken nicely about this. We know how important it is that the Frisian language stays alive and gets space, also through Omrop Fryslân. That would be best secured with its own administration, its own license and its own budget. We have often exchanged here why this channel deserves a special place in our order. I would like a response from the Secretary of State. What guarantees are there for Omrop Fryslân? And how does the Hoekstra Committee receive justice? The last question I would like to ask the Secretary of State concerns top salaries. They still shoot out above the upper limit of the beaming standard here and there. Is there any indication that we're really going to limit that? As far as we are concerned, that would fit perfectly with a public service broadcasting system. Finally. I started my contribution with a reference to Robert Putnam. I would also like to say to everyone: look at less television. The only exception I might have to make is the Secretary of State. I say to him: please look more often at those rich programmes of public service broadcasting; what a beautiful thing it is! Think of the informative Borderland. Think of Counter-Light, a very informative program. Last Sunday it was about TTIP. Also think of the EO documentary series Jojanneke in prostitution, a very revealing and shocking program. Take a look at Heel Holland Bakt for all I care, with in mind the notion that hundreds of young people have applied for a baker's programme and have had the urge to practice a real craft. This is a warm encouragement to the Secretary of State to put that thick bag aside very occasionally, to take the remote control and to look at the wonderful offer of a multicoloured and diverse broadcaster.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u119	I totally agree with that last plea. If you don't know what it's about, it's hard to judge. Does the Christian Union know what its opinion will be on this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u120	The simple answer is: no, we do not know that. It's a good thing you asked. Then I can also say on behalf of the SGP Group that it is still open. It depends on the answer of the Secretary of State. It depends on the fate of amendments and motions. There are important amendments to this text. Other proposals will be tabled by means of motions for resolutions. It really depends on the fate of those amendments and motions how we will ultimately judge. I can highlight one part specifically. I would like to underline everything I have mentioned, but let me specifically address the position of the broadcasting organizations in relation to the NPO. Mr Van Dijk has tabled an important motion stating that the broadcasters are co-producer, that they have an important role to play in cooperation with outside producers. We voted in favour of this motion. It's an important point that needs to get hands and feet in this law. It will depend on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u121	I've listened to your input. He was critical. You are in favour of a lively broadcasting system. You like pluralism. On balance, this law leads to more centralisation, more power for the NPO and less power for the broadcasters. Are you saying that you will agree to this proposal if your amendments and motions are adopted? Can you be more clear about your terms for agreeing to this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u122	I have, for example, found the plan that came to us through the Culture Council a good plan from the beginning. It proposes to give more room for pluralism in a new way. There are all kinds of bathing words about broadcasting associations, but I have a warm heart for them, because they fascinate and bind many people. A lot of people are talking. The participatory society is happening here. However, these broadcasting organizations are not sacred. There is more to be said about pluralism. I'm open to more room for it. That must be guaranteed. I am therefore concerned about the position of broadcasters. In addition, there must be room for reflection. There must also be supervision by the Commissariat. Those are important conditions. How we will vote on the final legislative proposal as it stands will really depend on the reply of the Secretary of State and the voting behaviour of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u123	Mr. Chairman. Dutch public service broadcasting is among the cheapest and best quality in Europe. I think my very first interruption was with this Secretary of State about this. That was in a debate on public service broadcasting and one of the first laws we dealt with. The Secretary of State agreed to this position. However, our appreciation of the way this has been achieved was somewhat different. My approach back then is still the same. The characteristic and unique character of our public service broadcasting is the external pluralism. That is why Dutch public broadcasting is so cheap and qualitatively good. This external pluralism with broadcasters, with members, has led to a unique competition of ideas based on the support and support they provide to broadcasters. Then why are we discussing a proposal for a change here? In its report, entitled Time is open, the Culture Council clearly describes the challenges posed by a rapidly changing media landscape. Linear viewing, via television, shifts towards non-linear and delayed viewing, via tablets and smartphones and behind the red button. Big international players like Google, YouTube and Netflix are raking huge market shares of viewing and listening behavior inside. The public service mission of public service broadcasting is not tied to the medium of television or radio nor merely to linear consumption. The question rightly raised by the Culture Council's report is how our public service broadcasting will remain in this changing digital world, so that we can still conclude in ten or fifteen years' time that our public service broadcasting is among the cheapest and best in Europe. To this end, the Culture Council in its report proposes a number of issues that could strengthen public service broadcasting in this new media world. In short: more central control from the NPO and more access for external producers to the order. The first point, more central control, can make our broadcasting system more competitive with international players. The second point can strengthen the competition of ideas, Mr Segers has just spoken about this, which leads to more pluralism. Those are two great ideas in themselves. The strength of the opinion of the Culture Council lies, however, in my group's view, in the fact that the report does not preach a total revolution, but rather that it assumes the power and uniqueness of our public broadcasting system. Account is taken of the enormous added value of external pluralism, of those 3.5 million members. The report of the Council of Culture does not preach a rash revolution, but rather a thoughtful adaptation of a number of things that can make our public service broadcasting stronger and more future-proof without throwing away its uniqueness. On the basis of this report from the Council of Culture, the broadcasters and the NPO have joined forces to make agreements. First a letter was sent, which reached us last spring; then agreements were made in the concession policy plan. In the agreements and the concession policy plan, the players in Hilversum have shown that they have taken note of the report of the Council for Culture and that they have interiorized it. The agreements reflect the opinions expressed in the report and, according to my group, are fully in line with this bill. This brings me to the question that has just been asked by the colleague of the SP to the colleague of the Christian Union: is this a bill that could be supported at the end of the journey? Too much is unclear in the answer given by the Secretary of State. What about transparency and openness? When I read the written reply of the Secretary of State, I have serious concerns about how he assesses the concession policy plan, the embedding of the agreements contained in the report of the Culture Council by the broadcasters. In several places in the answer he sent to the Chamber, he seems to create brackets. These are back doors to say, after this bill has been passed, that the agreements are not in line with what he meant and that he wants it to be different. That raises the question to my group whether it entrusts the Secretary of State with the task of making performance agreements through those back doors which are in line with the way we look at this law and the future of public service broadcasting. The answer to this question is: no, I do not have enough confidence. This is also due to the fact that the Secretary of State has repeatedly radiated a vision of public service broadcasting that is not ours in recent years. That vision went towards less external pluralism and towards a narrow, complementary task. In this debate, the question is whether the Secretary of State can explain what he means by the back doors he creates. Can you lock those back doors? Otherwise, he would ask opposition parties, especially those who supported the Van Dijk motion on co-production last year, to give him carte blanche, and then perhaps to do something completely different with this law than the supporters of that motion had in mind at the time and still have in mind today. Let me start with transparency. It's kind of a crazy discussion tonight, too. No one is against transparency. Public service broadcasting shows on a daily basis, on TV, on radio, on the Internet, what it does with public resources. If there is one place where we can all see how public money is spent, then it is in everything we get to see via radio and TV from public broadcasting. That is quite different than just a subsidy for any organisation. We also have a Commissioner for the Media to see to that. This has already been mentioned by several speakers. We must ensure that public service broadcasting does not become a kind of political broadcasting. We must ensure that we do not have debates here at the level that Arno believes that a particular discussion programme has cost a great deal. Whether Kees believes that his favorite drama series should get a bigger budget. In my view, the debate on transparency can best be conducted with each other. Again, nobody is against transparency. So I'm curious how the Secretary of State will respond to that. I would also like to reflect on precisely that role of the Commissioner in order to avoid that this will only be about questions like how expensive cameras may be, how many cameras may there be etcetera, etcetera. A related question of mine has so far been avoided by the Secretary of State. I also put it in writing. This question is about transparency towards the public in other European countries. Is the greatest transparency towards the public about costs not right in countries where there is a form of viewing and listening money, a licence fee? Isn't accountability to the public the highest when there is a form of direct financing? Is there a correlation between that and, if so, can the Secretary of State explain why?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u124	Mr Heerma knows that the VVD is not in favour of reintroducing the viewing and listening money. I do not believe that the CDA feels otherwise in principle. But do I hear Mr Heerma say that if we were to re-introduce the viewing and listening money, he would at once agree that we should be transparent up to the level of the programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u125	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u126	I do not quite understand Mr Heerma's question to the Secretary of State. Then it'll be interesting at best. I do not see its relevance for this debate at all. The watch and listen money isn't coming. Mr Heerma raises this point as if it would lead to greater transparency. But he does not want this extra transparency. Could he explain that for a second?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u127	I regret that Mr Rutte finds my question interesting but irrelevant. Luckily, I'm going to ask you about my questions. I think the question is relevant. It is undesirable for us here in this house to have a political discussion about what programmes are going to cost. Then we are talking about a political broadcaster instead of a public broadcaster. If transparency is important, it is transparency towards the public. I believe that there is a correlation between countries where a licence fee applies and the extent to which they are transparent towards the public. So I ask an informative question about it to the Secretary of State. I understand Mr Rutte's suggestion from his point of view, but unfortunately the answer remains 'no'. I shall continue with my speech and speak about the openness of the order. I believe that this is a central issue in this debate. As far as my group is concerned, excellent agreements have been reached between the NPO and the broadcasters on access to the order for outside producers. I agree with Mr Segers that this can have added value. It can add an extra layer of pluralism and creative competence. We already have this in our order. Account has been taken of that. It is designed in the agreements made by broadcasters and broadcasting associations. Last week they were explained very clearly in this letter. Does the Secretary of State find what has been agreed in this to be contrary to his law? I think that's the most dangerous back door of what he wrote down. I also asked the VVD Group, because I would very much like to know. As far as my group is concerned, we have a problem. Last year we deliberately supported Mr Van Dijk's motion. In that debate, too, we said that this issue is at the heart of our thinking. That is what we said in response to a question by Mr Elias who was still doing this at the time and asked us if we could possibly support it. I therefore believe that it is crucial to close the vicious back door that has been placed here. Can the Secretary of State confirm that these agreements account first of all for the extra layer advocated by the Council of Culture and that this is also done in a manner consistent with the law, on the basis of the letter we received last week? I would like to receive an explanation from the Secretary of State. Several speakers have already commented on whether politics is sufficiently remote from public service broadcasting. Demand also becomes more relevant as the driving role of the NPO increases. I think that the discussion on the appointment of the Management Board is quite right. However, I would also like to add something. The Supervisory Board of the NPO seems to be replaced at once. The vacancies are already online. I don't think that's wise. That is not good for continuity alone. So I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what he would think if such a supervisory board were to be converted into a rotational model and the members did not leave at the same time. Would it not be wise, particularly with these enormous changes, if the current chairman of the Supervisory Board stayed longer to work on his new Supervisory Board? That's a good thing for continuity, isn't it? Another point is the balance between the broadcasters and the NPO. This is also a central issue in this law. Wouldn't it be interesting to give broadcasters a more binding opinion on, for example, one of the places on the NPO Supervisory Board? Wouldn't that be good for the balance between the broadcasters and the NPO? I would also like to receive a response to that. I have started with the strength of the member broadcasters and the importance of the 3.5 million members. I feel that the power that that gives, here and there, has been neglected too much. Couldn't those members be much more activated and involved? The Secretary of State always says that the broadcasters are there for 17 million Dutch. I know. But what better guarantee of public interests can you have than 3.5 million actively involved members? In the written round, I asked the Secretary of State if he was aware of what is happening to involve them more. I made the mistake of asking a closed question and the answer of the Secretary of State was "Yes." I can see him laughing now. I'd like to invite him here to explain that a little bit more. What initiatives does he see and what does he think of them? How can this member involvement get even more body? In my view, Mr Klein has tabled a draft amendment to actively involve member organisations and members of public service broadcasters in the context of public involvement. I think that is a very sympathetic idea. I think there's strength in those members. They are involved and you cannot separate the public involvement from the involvement of these members. So I would like to get a response from the Secretary of State to that amendment. In addition, I would like to receive a more detailed explanation of the "yes" that I received in response to my closed question. Then I come to the subject of entertainment. It will be no surprise to the Secretary of State that I think he has made very wrong statements about this in the past. A Secretary of State should not say in this way, at individual programme level, which programmes should no longer be made. As far as I am concerned, however, the agreements made are quite clear. Dispersation is not an end in itself, but entertainment has its function, both as part of programmes that aim at information, culture and education as well as to reach and hold on to a wide audience. In short, entertainment is not an end in itself but can have a function for a wider public interest. That's fine. My question is: can this not be tested on the basis of the public value test already agreed in the concession policy plan? That question is also raised in the letter we received last week. I wonder how the Secretary of State looks at that. The question of what is a public task is one that affects the debates we have with each other in many areas. Is it a public task that there is sufficient attention to soul and jazz? What is Radio 2's public task? What about the task of the 242 broadcasters and is it sufficiently secure? Is the earmarked money properly spent? That is a question that Mr Segers and I often put in the debate. The driving force behind these issues is the public interest. The public interest must drive Dutch broadcasting. Along this line, the CDA Group believes that public service broadcasting should pay more attention to the core values of our society. Integration is one of the current social issues. In recent years, too often, even in the public debate, culturrelativism has prevailed. This is not good for integration either. Active attention to core values relates to freedom of religion, freedom of expression, equality between men and women, but also to very simple bourgeois values: you work for your pennies, you look to your neighbors and you try to leave the world as best you can for your children. These are matters that, if you ask me, are also part of the public service remit of public service broadcasting. After all, integration is one of the most important social issues at the moment, as I have already pointed out. It is important, also for new people entering the Netherlands, that such values are transferred. This is also a central issue in the asylum debate. My colleague, Mr Oskam, has recently proposed the distribution of the Constitution in asylum seekers' centres, so that we can see how we deal with each other here. I believe that this increased focus on core values in public broadcasting is also in line with the implementation of the Van Dam motion, which was tabled before the summer in a debate on anti-democratic parties. This motion has been widely supported in this Chamber. In my view, Mr Van Dam mentioned public service broadcasting in particular when it comes to promoting these shared core values. We have recently received a letter from Minister Asscher and Minister Plasterk stating that this motion will be implemented. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how he is involved and what role he sees for public service broadcasting. A related point, I think, is language skills. It's a big concern right now, because integration exams seem to be sticking. There are few integration exams and the success rate is falling. This is also very important for the issue of integration. After all, language is the first condition to be able to participate in society. Wouldn't it be interesting if public service broadcasting paid attention to language learning? I think that could have a lot of value. Recently, I have seen that public service broadcasting participates in a partnership to put more music lessons at the centre of education. If that is possible, could it not also be possible to contribute to the knowledge of the language? It would be a good thing, precisely because the integration exam seems to be stalling. There are more and more worrying reports about this. A TV could make a good contribution to that. I'm going to the regional broadcasters. I am very pleased that many of the speakers have drawn attention to this in their contributions. It is an important part of this draft law. I am very pleased with the initiative taken by the regional broadcasters to establish a bottom-up cooperation. I'm glad the Secretary of State embraced this. I'd like to compliment him on that. It's much better to work together this way from below than to let Hilversum swallow you up. The regional broadcasters have a central role to play in the region in terms of local identity, culture, regional journalism and quality of life, precisely because the media landscape has been deteriorating in many regions. It is important that this connection between regional broadcasting and the provinces is maintained. Collaboration at the bottom is the first and the right step, but it is very important to continue to pay due attention to the rooting of public media companies in the regions in the future. The autonomy of regional broadcasting editorial services must be sufficiently safeguarded and the provinces must keep their own broadcasting. What happened in the Dutch Team this week was perhaps a very clear example of how important these things are, how central the role of Omroep Drenthe was in reporting and how big this national news was. That could not have been defeated by a national broadcaster in this way. I do not think the connection with the provinces is something that should be called into question again every four or five years after each concession period, simply because the concession period ends. What does the Secretary of State think about just recording this? As long as we have provinces, there are those provincial or regional broadcasters. If there is support from the bottom to change that, then there will be an amendment and there should be an active decision, something that should also be discussed here in the Chamber, rather than automatically being called into question again with each concession. In the very small provinces, the role of public service broadcasting is the most under pressure. Mr Verhoeven of D66 talked about this extensively; he mentioned Drenthe and Zeeland, and rightly so. Berenschot published a report on this matter a few years ago. You can see that the public task is going to be the fastest to wring there. Does the Secretary of State also consider that this role in the further development of cooperation agreements should be safeguarded in these provinces? Does he agree that this cooperation will lead to the small provinces taking advantage of it, rather than putting them under further pressure? It is precisely in the small provinces that regional cohesion, identity, culture and the control function of regional and local politics must be maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u128	I do not know whether Mr Heerma is finishing the block of regional broadcasting or whether there will be more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u129	There's more to it, but I'm so curious about your question that I'd like to wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u130	I very much share with Mr Heerma the importance of the regional broadcasters and that they should and should have a solid position. That is why it is a good thing that good agreements have been reached. I can imagine that Mr Heerma attaches great importance to the regional broadcasters who feel a very strong link with their own region. Let me give you an example of what Fryslan has to say. In my own region, in Groningen, it is, and there are more of those places. How does Mr Heerma look at regions in which this link is perhaps a little less and where one might want to work across the provincial border to form a regional broadcaster? If there is a need for it, because it is related to it, does he think that we should move along with it, or does he prefer to stick to provincial borders?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u131	I think the connection with the provinces is important, precisely because of the control function on provincial and regional government. Nor do I know whether it is true that there are regional broadcasters who are currently saying: let's go together. Maybe this plays on two broadcasters within one province, but not across county boundaries. I am not standing there for that, but if there is a request from the bottom to change something, we must, of course, take a serious look at it here. After all, this is a question that comes from the bottom up. But what I don't want, and that's what I'm talking about, is that we're going to have a discussion from above about a NIS East, a NIS North and a NIS South in four years' time. I want to make sure we're not gonna do that. I believe that this is very important for regional broadcasting. We must record and show that this is not the intention, so that they will not be punished in four years' time for the good initiative they have now taken to prevent the regional broadcasters from being swallowed up by Hilversum.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u132	We fully agree that we should not punish broadcasters for working well together. If I understand Mr Heerma correctly, he attaches great importance to provincial ties, but he is not against it if regions from below want to shape broadcasting in a different way because that would lead to the most beautiful and best result in that region.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u133	That is a very hypothetical issue. In almost all provinces you can see that one attaches very much to the connection with one's own province, to the individuality. In the hypothetical situation where proposals come from the bottom up, we must always look seriously at them. The Secretary of State considers good cooperation between national and regional broadcasters to be of great importance. I think that's right. Cooperation between regional broadcasters offers the possibility of doing so on an equal footing. I am curious to see how the Secretary of State appreciates the growing attention paid by the NOS to regional broadcasters and to the content offered by these broadcasters. I see that more and more reports are being made of the content of the regional broadcasters. We're opening websites that contain that content. We were with the committee in England last year, and we saw how strongly the BBC, as the largest and strongest British media company, is actively working on this. The BBC links to the website of regional news companies. I think that is a positive step, but one can go even further. Instead of putting the content under its own heading, it can be linked to the news of the regional public broadcasters themselves. I wonder how the Secretary of State looks at that. The third layer of public service broadcasting is the local broadcasters. There too, cooperation is very important. This was also part of Matthijs Huizing's speech two years ago as VVD spokesperson. I am talking about cooperation within a province, including with local broadcasters. I wonder how the Secretary of State will work that out in the plans we will have next spring. How does he see the future of local broadcasting in the light of the movements made by regional broadcasters? My last block is about Omrop Fryslaan. Almost all the speakers have talked about this. It is good that Omrop Fryslân participates in the partnership, but we must also realize that the omrop has a special position, precisely because of its connection with the second state language, the Frisian. The Council of Europe has previously fingered the Netherlands for neglecting regional languages and failing to implement the Frisian language law. So far, too much has been lacking in the implementation of the Frisian language law. I also agree with the colleague of the VVD Group that the texts written by the Secretary of State are hopeful. In those texts, he is most aware of everything he has said so far about this particular role. These expectations must also be met. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how he intends to do this in the further development of the plans. Is he willing to talk to the Ministry of the Interior, which has an important role to play in the area of language law, and to the province of Friesland about agreements to ensure that this is done properly? There are additional tasks involved in the implementation of that rich language. As far as I am concerned, this may also have financial consequences, both for the Empire and for the Province. I wonder if the Secretary of State, based on the good words he wrote, is prepared to pick up that glove. Then we will enable the omrop to carry out the additional tasks properly within the cooperation it has entered into. Mr. Chairman. I went over my speaking time, but I have finished my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u134	I put the same question to Mr Heerma as I asked Mr Segers. He's already gone into it a little bit. What exactly are his conditions in order to support this law or not? He spoke of my motion. How exactly does he want that motion to be carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u135	That is not exactly the same question as Mr Segers. This question is a little easier. I've already made it pretty clear. I believe that the broadcasters and the NPO have made agreements in line with the report of the Culture Council which are not at all contrary to this law. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State that he interprets this as well and that the back door that seems to be there so far is closing. That is a very important condition for me in assessing this law. My speech on the regional broadcasters and the guarantee of that position, Mr Van Dijk, is in agreement with this, and I believe that a second aspect, which I consider to be very important, is important in the assessment of this law. To answer the non-asked question, I do not know at this stage what the voting behaviour of my group will be at the end of this legal process. These two points are objectives that are crucial in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u136	Clear, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u137	What does Mr Heerma think about us starting a Turkish radio station with Dutch tax money?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u138	Which Turkish radio station is started by the Dutch public service broadcaster?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u139	There's gonna be a wired transmitter, Turkpop. That's what the Secretary of State's answers say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u140	In my opinion, Turkish radio stations are being started in Turkey and the Dutch public broadcasting service is broadcasting for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u141	Mr President, do you have any idea what time all this is going to take?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u142	I have an estimate, but I'm not going to tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u143	Ah, okay, we can bet. Mr. Chairman. I'm a fan of public service. Beautiful programmes are being made, such as the delivery of Counter-Light last Sunday about the dangers of TTIP, the EU-US treaty. This was high-quality investigative journalism, you should cherish it. A little later, Sunday came with Lubach, which was also about the TTIP-Treaty, but very comical. Look back! For example, there are countless programs that you can enjoy. That is the power of public service broadcasting: pluralism and diversity. Serious topics are made accessible to a wide audience. The Secretary of State has been engaged in a crusade in recent years. Again and again he comes up with acid comments that there should be no laughing, that there should be savings, that it could all be a little less. What's with the resentment? Our public service broadcasting is one of the cheapest in the world. Of course not all programmes are equally interesting, but that is part of a broad broadcasting system, because tastes differ. The other day I saw the game Holland - Turkey and there was little to laugh about. I was thinking, is that what the Secretary of State means by his ideas about a public service without entertainment? We are now discussing the Media Act. What problem is this law a solution to? That's the question that came to my mind. Can the Secretary of State give a concrete answer to this? Initially, the proposals were very similar to the VVD election programme: public broadcasting should only be complementary to commercial channels and entertainment should disappear. This came down to a death home construction, a public broadcasting in the margin, with few viewers. Later this was adjusted, undoubtedly thanks to the coalition partner. In the meantime, the proposed amendment does not seem too drastic. It is sufficiently vague to keep the patch coalition alive for a while. So the Secretary of State's muscle language is a bit out of the question. He may still call for entertainment to be removed, but in practice it is not that bad. Does the Secretary of State recognize that? I have questions. The Secretary of State writes that entertainment is no longer a core task of public service broadcasting. What does this mean in concrete terms? It's interpreted differently. The Secretary of State mainly sees it as a means. However, the Labour Party is very pleased that the government's proposal simply allows entertainment and an important part of the wide-ranging public service broadcasting. Where does the Secretary of State stand on the scale of "amusement is an important part of broadcasting" and "amusement is no longer the core task of broadcasting"? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. The law shifts control to the NPO. It changes from a coordinating body to a steering body. That's a long way to go. The budget and the substantive frameworks will soon be determined by the NPO. There will be genre coordinators on top of the already existing network coordinators. Isn't that a lot of extra bureaucracy? Shouldn't the VVD be happy about that, too? Will the NPO decide on the format of the programmes and who will do the presentation or can the Secretary of State rule that out? Who will decide which program gets a go or a no go? The Minister shall decide who shall be on the Supervisory Board of the NPO. Is this a question of journalistic freedom? The government appoints the boss of the broadcaster and that boss of the broadcaster then gets all the rights and determines the way things are going. Politics is getting very close to journalism. The Council of State also states in its opinion that the larger and more directing role of the NPO requires more checks-and-balances. I'd like a response. Around 30% of the programme budget is already going to external producers, such as Warner Bros. Now there is a proposal to increase that percentage to 50. My motion does say that the broadcasters are always co-producer, so why should the NPO be given a much larger role? The Secretary of State wants the NPO to agree on budget, format, substantive frameworks and rights. After that, the NPO decides on which channel this is appropriate. However, the concession policy plan states that broadcasters can still adapt substantive and financial frameworks. That's a lot more how my motion is meant to be. Does the Secretary of State agree? So he's using that interpretation, too? We should not want the NPO to deal with the content of the programmes. Let us maintain the autonomy of the editors. I have made an amendment for this, in part No. 17. Then there is the transparency of costs. The Secretary of State wants them by programme and others want them by genre. Making the costs public, per programme, goes a long way. It provokes a political discussion, is said, about the content choices of the NPO and broadcasters. Politics will soon know the price, but not the value of the programmes. What does the Secretary of State want with it anyway? Is it a form of bullying or does he guarantee that politics will not interfere with substantive choices? Can he guarantee that at all? Of course, there must be concern about the proper use of public money. The government wants the law to enter into force on 1 January 2016. The Council of State is right to point out that the effects of the latest changes are not yet all visible. The mergers of broadcasters, the disappearance of non-member broadcasters, the disappearance of the Media Fund and the reduction in the guarantee budget from 70% to 50% have only recently been introduced. The broadcasters will then ask for more time to carry out the changes properly. What's the rush? What about the Labour Party, who said in 2013 that there should be peace in the tent? Is that another one from the series of broken promises? I quote Mr Van Dam. He said in 2013: "We are not going to change that at all in this cabinet period. (...) Then we don't turn all kinds of buttons again in the middle of that first period." Hey, Mr Mohandis is going to answer that later. Then the regional media. The SP has serious concerns about regional news. We have been seeing a process of disruption for years, especially in the newspapers. New initiatives deserve full support. Ultimately, a core task of democracy, namely control of power, is neglected. There are numerous municipalities and provinces where there is no journalist anymore. Drivers are barely controlled by the fifth power. In the meantime, we are seeing a massive increase in the number of informers and communication staff. The journalist/officer ratio would now be one in three. Residents are thus being given more and more propaganda instead of independent news services, while the tasks of local authorities are increasing. There is now a sharp cut in regional channels: 17 million, of which about 5 million are likely to fall down on the editors. So that's not wise. On the contrary, we must strengthen the regional media. Does the Secretary of State share that view? I'll make the following proposal. We're going to invest $10 million in regional media. In doing so, we are substantially eliminating the savings of around 5 million on the editorial staff of the regional channels and we have another 5 million for regional cooperation of various media through the Journalism Fund. Coverage can be found in the budget for information and communication. I call on the government to discuss this with provinces and municipalities. But the Empire can also work with this on its own. Figures show that at least 600 fulltime employees work to inform the government. I suggest we cut the budget for that. Then we'll save minists 10 million euros. This money can then go to regional media. I shall table a motion to this effect. The SP also shares the concerns of Omrop Fryslân. There's a lot of anxiety among the Frisians. The network is broadcasting everything in the Fries. The Secretary of State says he attaches importance to the Frisian language, but the broadcaster has little confidence in it. How's he gonna reassure people there? I have another point about composers. My group understands that public service broadcasting has its own publishing houses for the work of people who write music for the programmes of that public service broadcasting. There's nothing wrong with composers choosing to do that themselves. But if they work for Hilversum, they can only do so through the publishing houses of the broadcasters. Does the Secretary of State recognize this? How does he reconcile that with competition law? Does he find it acceptable when composers, but also other creatives, are forced to go with one party and therefore also have to accept the rates of one party? I'd like to hear a response. The NPO wants to stop Radio 6. This means that there will hardly be any jazz, soul, world music, cross-over et cetera to be heard on the public radio. I have asked questions about this before and we have also received a petition. On social media, "Radio 6 must stay" is unprecedentedly popular. Secretary of State, save this station. I'm on VAT for digital news. For digital news, 21% VAT is charged while the rate for paper news is only 6%. Does the Secretary of State wish to eliminate this inequality by bringing the digital news to that rate of 6%? France and Luxembourg preceded him. So let him not say: Europe cannot allow it. Other Member States are doing the same. Give broadcasters the space to maintain their own websites and website addresses. Avoid a single sausage from npo.nl. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that this should be done? It has already been said that we should not have more advertising on public service broadcasting, but less. This certainly applies to public service broadcasting on the Internet. The NPO will have many more responsibilities. If this happens, the NPO must also be liable for the human consequences of the decisions taken there. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? I'd like to hear a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u144	Mr. Chairman. Here it is, finally, the media law to make public broadcasting future-proof. That future will start on 1 January 2016 when the law comes into force. However, no one knows what the future of the media is going to bring us over the next ten years. It is clear that innovation, digitalisation and the shift towards Internet viewing show that it is not impossible to rule out the need for a new future exploration in five years' time. The developments in the media landscape are moving at a rapid pace. This bill is an important step and offers public service broadcasting a great opportunity to work together in the coming concession period to further strengthen that public service broadcasting and to make beautiful programmes for everyone. I am also pleased that broadcasters and the NPO have responded together before, when the outline letter on future exploration was issued. They then endorsed the urgent need for joint action in the future. Programs are experienced by viewers as inspiring, informative, cultural or even relaxing. Public service broadcasting is at the heart of society. He makes an important contribution to the general development of children, for example, and has an emancipatory effect for new Dutch people. Through news, background journalism and beautiful programs I have learned a lot about the Netherlands. It's the country I grew up in, but without education and media, hope and progress were never self-evident. Media are important to learn about the differences, about what connects us and about the different political views that exist in the Netherlands. But it's also about sharing emotion, humor and enjoying big events like World Cup football with the whole neighborhood. Media is a social bond. The world is constantly evolving, as is the media supply and technological developments. The viewers of today will decide when, where and how they look. Today's young viewers are in a rapidly developing media society and are becoming increasingly less and less convinced of a broadcaster. This future development is the biggest challenge for public service broadcasting. How does broadcasting remain relevant and public in a rapidly changing environment with an increasing number of providers? It makes the flight forward of a strong broadcaster all the more important. It is necessary to develop further. The public call needs a broad mandate to remain relevant for future generations. Public service broadcasting must not be narrowed down and merely complement what is happening elsewhere in the market. This separation cannot be made and it is also undesirable to do so, because in the perception of viewers there will always be overlap. Entertainment fits the nature of the medium. Pleas for further narrowing public service broadcasting and for it to be a supplement to the commercials do not pass. They're not separate worlds. Recognizability is, of course, a goal. Public service broadcasting must always focus on its own programming. In addition, politicians do not determine which programmes can be deleted. I do not think that politics should deal with the content of programmes. Flavour differences and it is up to the public broadcaster to comply with the public service remit and to answer to the viewer. In addition, producers and broadcasters have to ask themselves daily whether their programmes are accessible and diverse. The latter is important in view of the diversity that our society knows. With entertainment programs it is possible to attract a wide audience. Things like information, education and culture are often wrapped in entertainment. It's an important tool for that. Satirical programs and other forms of infotainment are part of public service broadcasting. The core task must be clear, but entertainment is indispensable. It's like cement. To attract a wide audience and to allow people to come into contact with the core functions it cannot be lacking. It is good that the cabinet has chosen entertainment in this task. Entertainment is more than a few titles that fit or not. It is packed in many programmes and shows that creators and broadcasters never deny their core tasks. The PvdA will always fight for a broadcaster that appeals to a broad group. She will never be involved in an elitist broadcaster, in a broadcaster that is not recognized in the neighborhood where I grew up and where I still live today. Public service broadcasting connects us, makes us laugh together and brings us new ideas. The parties in favour of a supplement or in favour of supplementing the gap with the commercials do not see that this negative spiral is not good. If that's what you want, you're not in front of a strong network. Our broadcasters attract millions of viewers and listeners every day. They can make a variety of offers without the whims of the market. We do not want public service broadcasting that is a side car of private media. In addition, non-commercial funding gives the public service broadcasting the space and power to create important social programmes and documentaries and to conduct investigative journalism. It is precisely public service broadcasting that can and must continue to experiment with new programmes. It must offer young creatives a chance without going through the money counter because profits must be made. This is invaluable to our society. That is why distinctive genres such as soul and jazz deserve a full-fledged place on the radio and should not be tucked away. On this point, Mr Verhoeven from the D66 Group has tabled a motion, which I wholeheartedly support. This makes it all the more important to consider from the point of view of whether and, if so, how public service broadcasting can compete in a technologically and in terms of media supply rapidly changing world. There must be programmes that provide all viewers with discussion, opinion formation, knowledge, development and relaxation and that continue to connect from a social point of view. The Labour Party agrees with the cabinet, which clearly opts for a public broadcaster that can continue to develop on digital platforms and offer plenty of opportunities to talented television makers to further promote the innovation of the programme offer, a broadcasting with a market strengthening effect compared to other providers. All colleagues who went on a visit to the BBC and the VRT have heard that market strengthening between the public and private is much more on the agenda than the endless discussion about market distortion, which you never really get a grip on because the public service is a fact. It is good that innovation has been placed at the heart of the task. What we missed is that talent development could have been better anchored in the law as a task of the NPO, of broadcasters and of the outside producer, who is given a better position with this proposal. There is also an amendment on this point. Public service broadcasting must be available everywhere. Let me give you an example. The NOS app is very popular because young viewers experience no difference between news on a television or on a phone. The Internet has the future, so let's see how we can better shape the strengthening of the market. It is good that the cabinet opts for a public broadcasting service on the Internet. The big providers like Google and Facebook get a lot more income from the Dutch market, not to mention the success of Netflix in the Netherlands, for example. The new service test can always look at new services submitted by the public service broadcaster. I come to speak about further strengthening the role in the order. I told you before, we need a joint broadcast. An environment where the NPO gets more control and in which task and member broadcasters and outside producers are the main creative suppliers of beautiful programs and monitor the pluralism of character. A stronger NPO is needed to further promote this togetherness, for example the joint exploitation and acquisition of content. That is also acknowledged by the cabinet, given the proposal that is before us. Other colleagues have already referred much more to the aspect of the outside producer. I would also like to dwell on this point. I think it is important that the outside producer is taken seriously when he knocks on the door at the NPO and that that pitch possibility is properly regulated. Outside producers should be able to submit their programme proposals to the NPO. It is also up to the broadcasters to take their responsibility not to let them jump through a new hoop again, but to really embrace the proposal. I would also like to point out that this legislative proposal has been clearly regulated, at least unchanged, by Article 2.88 that broadcasters bear the final responsibility for form and content. It is to be welcomed that broadcasters, together with the NPO, have developed this aspect in the concession policy plan, which is not easy. But a good impact is needed, because the bill clearly states that the NPO does not receive broadcasting authorisation but the broadcasters are responsible for form and content. This must ultimately succeed in implementation. If I interpret the law, I cannot maintain that this would be really contrary to the law, which is a bit in line with what Mr Heerma has said. The law states that the outside producer has access through the NPO, but broadcasters remain ultimately responsible for form and content. I would like more information on how the Secretary of State sees the effect and how we ensure that the outside producers get a full place in the order. I come to the governance of the appointments. An NPO that will be given more legal control, but is also appointed by the Minister, I find undesirable. I would argue that, by analogy with higher education for many, it is no secret that this is another part of my portfolio to have the board appointed by the supervisory board, as opposed to the current situation in which directors of the NPO are nominated by the supervisory board and appointed by the minister. The Supervisory Board shall be appointed by Royal Decree. In view of the tasks assigned to the NPO, this seems unwise to me. On this point, I have prepared a motion with Mr Segers of the Christian Union. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State to this proposal. A lot has already been discussed about transparency in genres. In an interrupting debate with Mr Rutte, I have already indicated that we are in favour of transparency in areas, in genres, something that the broadcasters and the NPO also feel for, according to their joint response to the concession policy plan. On this point, I agree with Mr Verhoeven's motion, which we support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u145	There are questions. I also say to the people who are watching and listening that motions will be tabled in the second term, but sometimes in the first period reference is made to a motion that still has to be tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u146	Mr Mohandis has said a number of sensible things about how to appoint and how to do about the Supervisory Board and the Management Board. That says something about independence in the direction of politics, the Minister and the State. That's important. At the same time, the public service broadcaster, the NPO, is of course also a self-employed power and is a self-employed body. However, this does not necessarily mean that it would be better if there were no political influence. In the criticism so far of the system that I am addressing, I come to the aspect of the involvement of citizens, users, viewers and listeners, their position and the way in which you can guarantee pluralism within that public order. Could Mr Mohandis respond to that? Does he think that the law has regulated this sufficiently, or does he say to me that we need to do something about it in addition?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u147	I believe that the law does not rule out the possibility of it being regulated in this way. Mr Grashoff is interrupting me on the subject of appointments, but he is actually referring to the way in which the new supervisory board should be set up. That's what I'm tasting from his interruption. I would also like to say something about this later, but I would like to be clear about this by asking the Secretary of State how we can ensure that continuity can be guaranteed in one way or another and even more importantly how we can ensure that this is also part of the task of the new Supervisory Board. My point about the appointment is more fundamental. At the moment when the NPO gets more control, you should also look at the way those appointments run. I want to guard against a situation with a stronger NPO in the current system, in which both the supervisor and the director and the operator are also appointed by politics, in consultation with the broadcasters, the performer of parts of this law. That is more of a matter of principle. With regard to Mr Grashoff's other comment, I would point out that this law does not rule that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u148	Mr Grashoff on this point? I'm also asking for a little shorter...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u149	A little shorter? Perhaps my introduction has been too long, because my dispute with Mr Mohandis is not about the appointments. However, he is right to make a point there. It is precisely about preserving pluralism. Eventually, there are seven people on the supervisory board who, so to speak, can say in splendid isolation what is good for the Netherlands to have on the tube. Now that obligation of public involvement is regulated by the law, but in terms of bail, the law doesn't really regulate anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u150	I would almost say that the new Supervisory Board is also entrusted with the task of monitoring, for example, the overall performance of the task by the performers. So you would almost say that pluralism is also guarded by overseeing the entire task. But let me just be open about it: of course I also want pluralism to be an important element in the new supervisory board when it is put together. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State how he's gonna bail that out. Again, the law doesn't rule it out. I share your concern. I also put this question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u151	Mr President, you were right to point out that the motions will be tabled in the second term. It is therefore difficult for the Secretary of State to respond to what Mr Mohandis has just asked. So I'm just gonna wait and see. However, I assume that this is about the appointment policy. I have an amendment to make that appointment much more independent from the government. Did I understand correctly that Mr Mohandis, in reply to Mr Grashoff, said that it is important that this should happen, because public service broadcasting, or the NPO should I say, and the Supervisory Board and the Management Board could so also steer the programming?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u152	No, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u153	Mr Grashoff spoke to you: that is important, because the supervisory board can thus help to determine the programming and content. You're throwing that far from you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u154	I think you should read the bill carefully. It is very clear what the role of the new Supervisory Board is. We have had all kinds of other discussions about the role of the supervisor, including in other sectors. It's always pretty well delineated. You're just dealing with the overall oversight of it. We don't have a supervisor who says that program doesn't really fit NPO 3. Let it be clear that that is not the intention, if that is what you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u155	Continue your argument, Mr Mohandis, and do not provoke any further things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u156	As far as I understand Mr. Klein's question. The Supervisory Board was my next point. I made my point at Mr. Grashoff's interruption. I asked the Secretary of State about pluralism, continuity and so on. I'd like a response to that. I think Mr Verhoeven referred to the letter we received from Media Valley. It appealed to me to strengthen the role of the creative sector, and to further strengthen everything that is happening in the area-Utrecht-Hilversum-Amsterdam around media. One element I missed and I want to add is the role of education. This is inextricably linked to the strengthening of the creative sector, whether conservatories or related higher education courses. They give young, talented creators and journalists a chance. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how he looks at this letter, which is widely supported. I'm curious. Perhaps it is a suggestion to come forward with a cabinet response before the WHO Media, so that we can talk about it? I need his vision of this direction, which, in my opinion, offers opportunities to further strengthen what is happening in the Netherlands around the media. Much has already been said about regional broadcasters. I would like to begin by congratulating everyone who has worked hard on the plan to allow the future exploration of regional broadcasters from below. Compliments to all these regional broadcasters and in particular to ROOS, the umbrella of regional broadcasters. The cabinet has also proposed that the plan be created from the bottom up. I am glad that people have been working on it and that it is now there. A further elaboration of this plan will be presented in a subsequent proposal, as the cabinet has also indicated in the accompanying letter. For the Labour Party, it is important that regional anchoring remains and that the regions can count on identifiable programmes. I also have a question about the concession period. I didn't think the written answer was sharp enough. A four-year concession period has now been chosen. An explanation has been given, but how does this relate to another normal ten-year period, i.e. two times five years? I can imagine why it was chosen, but I would like to receive further explanations as to why this concession period has been chosen. The Labour Party wants to move towards longer concession periods in the future, because this gives broadcasters the opportunity to develop further. We, too, underline the special status of "Gouwenaar" I try to pronounce it well "Omrop Fryslân." The cabinet has undertaken to underline this position in relation to the recognized state language. That's good for me. However, we would like the forthcoming legislative proposal to be more detailed about how this is going to happen. Will the Secretary of State take this fully into account in a further development? We are very curious how the position of the Omrop is taken into account. I also welcome the fact that Omrop Fryslân participates in regional cooperation and becomes part of the RPO. Perhaps it is an idea to look at the composition of the RPO and see how the different regions get a role in it. We are pleased that cooperation has also led to increased cooperation with the NIS. The regional news gets a place in the NOS journal, we were told today. This is good for the recognizability of regional broadcasting. It is also good for strengthening the NIS, which can bring the news even closer to the people in the long term. I have a few questions about local broadcasting, because there are still some open ends in relation to the legislative proposal on regional broadcasting that is yet to come. What about the recently founded Dutch Local Public Broadcasting Foundation? Does the Secretary of State agree with me that this is a good move, also in relation to what is now being proposed for regional broadcasters, the RPO? Local broadcasters also need a lot in the area of further professionalisation. I'm an avid lover of RTV Gouwestad, but it can be more professional. This cooperation in the field of regional broadcasting needs to be further developed, also in relation to cooperation with regional broadcasting. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State to this development. Then I get to the point of the radio. I'm gonna take a look at my colleague Rutte. He said something about a discussion at the AO Telecom about an adopted motion on the position of commercial radio. I believe that Mr Verhoeven has also asked for it. Let me not say too much about it, but I am curious to hear the Secretary of State's reaction. There is something still to be done in the Media Act, according to my colleague, Mr Oosenbrug, ICT spokesperson. Important decisions are taken to strengthen the position of the NPO in the system. Things are already happening. In addition to the mission of the cabinet, strategic choices are made. They create uncertainty among employees. I wonder if the Secretary of State agrees with me that this stronger role of the NPO should also make him more aware of this development. The cuts and strategic choices still run through a lot of broadcasters. It is important that we instruct the NPO much more to work for retraining and work-to-work, for example. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? Finally. The public service broadcaster connects us, gives us new insights and allows us to enjoy together. The public broadcaster makes innovative, entertaining programs, conducts investigative journalism and gives talented media makers the space without the laws of the market. That is why the Labour Party wants a strong public broadcaster that is available for all Dutch and not just for a small elite group. Through cooperation and broad programming, broadcasting can continue to be interesting and relevant to all Dutch people. With the look ahead and not turned inward, the public broadcaster can meet this challenge and can be there for a wide audience in the Netherlands. The Labour Party wants this bill to be adopted with broad support for the future. This bill, which will not surprise anyone, can count on our support because what we consider important, is anchored in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u157	I shall begin with a compliment to Mr Mohandis. He has succeeded in curbing the Secretary of State's crusade by reducing the blow to public service broadcasting. He also writes that in Trouw of 28 August: it is important that the Secretary of State should stop his symbolic struggle against entertainment and simply do his job. According to Mr Mohandis. Is the PvdA really satisfied with this law? Would it have been able to make this law itself if the group had 76 seats in the Lower House, or does it think that, although it has taken the edge off, it is too grim that there is so much power going to the NPO?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u158	Mr Van Dijk spoke of a crusade. I would like to point out that I can work very well with the Secretary of State and that I will do so in the near future. Mr Van Dijk asks: what if the PvdA had 76 seats? I think it's a weird question. Perhaps the introduction or direction of the law would have been different. However, rule is never done alone, but together. Together you make laws and in the end you have to be able to find something together. I'm glad this happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u159	That's a bit of a skinny answer. I just wanted to know if it's a law that Mr Mohandis is 100% supportive of. My second interruption is going to be used for a question that I have already asked Mr Mohandis in my own term. What about the promise of his predecessor, Martijn van Dam? He said in 2013: after these mergers and all these hard cuts, we're really gonna get some rest in the tent; we're not gonna turn all kinds of buttons again. Does Mr Mohandis recognise that this promise is not being fulfilled because we are back here today? Is he even brave enough to admit that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u160	I am certainly brave enough to respond to Mr Van Dijk's question. His assumption doesn't add up. When I wasn't a spokesperson on this file, a cabinet letter came in. It included three stages for the reform of public service broadcasting. Let me just say it in my own words. The third leg concerned the exploration of the future. Martijn van Dam, my predecessor, never said there wouldn't be one. At least he didn't say that when he handed over the stick to me. In the end, that's what you're up against. I have the occasional feeling that Mr Van Dijk did not get everything, because the broadcasters and the NPO have jointly recognised that this next step is needed. I am doing this on my full conviction as a Social Democrat, because I believe in the NPO and the broadcasters together, because I want to get them in good shape and because I want to make them stronger over the next five years. To this end, I have put forward proposals for transparency, independence and a broad task. That's what I'm fighting for. Eventually, you have to make choices and those choices are made. That's what I stand for. Mr Van Dijk says that I have broken a promise, but that is simply not true. It has been said from day one that we are going to reform gradually, in three stages. This is the final phase, the final part. That's what I stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u161	I would like to take up the part of Mr Mohandis' speech in which he gave a very positive picture of the public service broadcasting in the Netherlands. In it he also went into entertainment, entertainment or distraction. Does Mr Mohandis think that the public broadcasting balance in relation to the aspect of entertainment and the other fields of activity is simply fine and that nothing in this area will change in the new law? Or does he see that there is a change in that? And what change does he see?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u162	I would just like to refer to the discussion we had last year during the legislative consultation on this subject. Then it was said that when you talk about programs, you can always have the discussion about whether it's pure entertainment or entertainment with information. That's why I always stay away from those discussions: because you can't get out of it and because I don't think it's right that we should discuss it here. When I look at the cabinet's proposal, it is not intended that there is entertainment to the entertainment either. In my view, it is clear that the key tasks have been properly set out. A public service broadcaster with entertainment alone is not my public service broadcaster. Let me just make that very clear. I've never heard the Secretary of State say that entertainment goes away. That's what they said. He mentioned programs, which I thought was unwise. That's what I've been talking about. But the Secretary of State has never said that entertainment goes away. And what is good is that we have designed the law in such a way that the core tasks are clear, that sharper choices always have to be made and that the discussion must be conducted by the creators and by the public service. We shouldn't be running it here at programme level. We do not propose to say: I do not think anything is going to change. No, something has to change. That's what I stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u163	It does not become much clearer with this answer. A task field is deleted in the law. Then there is the question of what is changing that now. Of course I do not ask Mr Mohandis to refer to individual programmes, of course I do not ask him to say that they do and that they do not. But what, according to Mr Mohandis, is the real change that is taking place?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u164	What matters to me is that the question is always whether a programme fits. That question must then be asked by the creators and by the public service broadcaster. That discussion needs to be sharpened. Again, a public service broadcaster with nothing but entertainment would not be my public service broadcaster. But I'm not saying public service broadcasting is just entertainment now. That does not mean that you cannot have that discussion with each other, but it must be about the frameworks. The question is: how do you look at the frameworks that had been set, in which there had to be scattering? As far as I am concerned, that should not be the case, but you must continue to make it possible to give those core tasks a greater position within the whole task. That's what it's all about in the end. And is it gonna change anything? Yeah, I guess it's gonna change something. Otherwise, you don't have to make this proposal. That's why I support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u165	Mr Mohandis, were you finished with your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u166	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u167	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Klein.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u168	Mr. Chairman. With your permission. I have a small point of order. We are approaching the height of the debate: Mr Klein's first-term input. We're all gonna be comfortable for that. After that, we may have to suspend for a while. Then we get the answer from the Secretary of State in the first term. I find that the Secretary of State has no majority in the First Chamber. So parties still have to be convinced. Maybe there's still some pledges to be made. Then we get a second term, et cetera. I can still see the sun rising if we continue this way. Isn't there a sleeve that can be adjusted here? Can't we just stop after the first term of the Chamber and move on another time? We need to have a serious debate. It's a very serious subject. Soon we'll just fall over from sleep, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u169	I just made an appointment with you to have the debate. You are now making a request to suspend after the first deadline. It's actually an order proposal. I'll take a look at the members.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u170	No support. If the SP wants a serious debate, it has lost that opportunity in its own contribution. Excuse me, I have to say PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u171	It's too late for you, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u172	So I would say just continue with the debate. The President has also made every effort to ensure that the debate is as short as possible when it comes to the Chamber's input. Now let's just keep going. So D66 simply wants to finish the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u173	I know it's getting late, but let's just keep going. There is hardly any room to plan a possible second term later and then it becomes another night's work. Then we'll have the same problems again. So let's just bite the teeth and move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u174	If Mr Klein adjusts his speaking time to mine, it will be a little faster. However, it is particularly important to note that we also have a full agenda next week. I think we're gonna have to bite through. I therefore do not support the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u175	I can count. However, I would like to say that I do not think it wise to sit here until three o'clock in the night. So, as far as I'm concerned, we're putting it off.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u176	This is law enforcement. That means we can talk and discuss without time pressure, without haste. In short, careful legislation requires careful discussion. That means that we can now quietly do night work, or even a night TV program. That is agreed; if we want it and find it carefully, so be it. However, I think it would be much better to do so next week. It's not the Chamber that we're just discussing this bill now. The government could have sent that to the Chamber a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u177	I can count, too. For the Acts, however, I would like to say that I support the proposal. I think we should debate it properly, and that means that we do so in decent times. So I support the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u178	As attractive as it may be to get rid of it tonight, I'm sure it's going to be so late that I don't really think that's responsible anymore. I therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u179	I conclude, however, that there is a majority in favour of having this debate as a whole this evening, both the first and the second term. I now give the floor to Mr Klein for his contribution to the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u180	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering in detail the many questions I have asked about the legislative proposal and for what was laid down in the note on the report. I would like to focus my contribution on about a dozen subjects: the importance of the public broadcasters, the outside producers, the unproven claims, hollow legal texts, the NPO fund, regional broadcasting, public involvement, the concession policy plan, some variety, the Constitution, and finally a number of amendments that I have not yet discussed. I think that, if you have a lot of criticism, you should always try to improve the legislative proposal. This means that I have also tabled seven amendments. Why do we have a public service channel in the Netherlands? Of course, colleagues are not interested in that, but fortunately Mr Bosma is. Why would we put public money in a public service channel? The Chamber says: the viewer must be put at the centre. It's being promoted like a mantra. But who's the viewer? Just as "the voter" is just an idea and only an indication of people who have the right to vote is "the viewer" fictional, undefined and undetermined. Or does the Secretary of State think he knows who the viewers are? There are about 17 million viewers. So these are people with a lot of different preferences, backgrounds, beliefs and ages. In short: it is a huge variety and variety. For those 17 million people, the Secretary of State wants to decide what is or is not a good offer. The Secretary of State as "the great leader." That is why I have stunnedly read the amendment to the current Media Act. What is the aim and where does it lead? From a liberal perspective, public service broadcasting means that broadcasting is part of the public domain. Key value for liberal politics is citizens' control within the public domain. In the public administration, this is translated by holding elections, where different movements in society can be represented in the parliament. This is also called representative democracy. The value of broadcasting in the public domain also depends on that representativeness being given content. In our public broadcasting history, it has been chosen to achieve that representativeness by broadcasting associations, which can be recognised on the basis of membership and distinctiveness. Public service broadcasting has a public mission to be a mirror of society, a mirror that is important to allow differences in society from local to global, from one place to the whole world, to be visible and accessible to a wide audience. The idea here is that through this visibility of differences a better understanding can be created and living together becomes really living together. Especially at a time when differences lead to less understanding, liberals want to continue to emphasise this. External pluralism means that anyone who meets requirements can participate in the public domain; public broadcasting. Accessibility is still paramount. Participation in public service broadcasting determines legitimacy. The important point is that, over time, it has become a legal requirement that only associations can obtain recognition for joining public service broadcasting. That used to be different; think about foundations like the TROS. It is precisely by choosing the form of association that basic democracy has been done; participation in the association of members and by members. This choice of principle remains the starting point for liberal broadcasting policy. Without participation and without broadcasting associations, there is no justification for the public broadcasting system, in which public media services are offered. It contains the difference in principle with commercial broadcasting. It is wrong that commercial broadcasting in the programme offer would be different from public broadcasting. In reply, the Secretary of State rightly points out the public nature of the programme offer of commercial broadcasting. This also explains that in fact all programmes between commercial and public broadcasting are in principle interchangeable. Relevant is the question of whether the content of the programme is in line with the profile of the transmitter and the service provider in the case of the public service broadcasting organisation and is in line with the statutory public tasks in the field of information, culture, education and entertainment. Entertainment remains, though via a slightly different construction. But that's just cosmetic. "Fitting a profile of a transmitter" is regardless of whether it is commercial or public. NPO 2 as an in-depth journalistic channel or RTL 7 as a male channel can be coordinated centrally by the NPO or by the directors of the commercial channels. The unique feature of the content of the programmes on the public channels is that there can be a democratic accountability within the broadcasting organisation. Government control on content is therefore never good. This direction can lead to a directly controlled state broadcasting, such as in North Korea, where there is censorship, or an indirectly controlled state broadcasting, through performance assignment and appointment policy. The latter is suspiciously similar to the state broadcaster NPO that is emerging in the Netherlands. In a process of years, the entire democratic broadcasting system is gradually being broken down. As nitwitty, money-laundering clubs, broadcasting associations and their 3.5 million members are thrown away. "The central viewer" means that public service broadcasting must compete directly and firmly with commercial broadcasters. This is unfair competition, because the state broadcaster NPO is subsidised and now no longer has to meet profiling requirements. On the other hand, commercial broadcasting remains bound by Chapter 3 of the Media Act. I have already tabled an amendment on this point. It is quite clear that the Secretary of State wants the VVD direction. He wants to move towards the further undressing of the broadcasting organizations as old, so-called hidden rudiments in the transition to an entirely state-driven and undemocratic NPO. The public domain without public representation. Then the legitimate question is whether we should put money into that. It seems to me that the PVV model can indeed be implemented, so stop with the public service broadcasting and buy some broadcasting time from commercial channels for broadcasts of national interest as a government. In my view, this is a completely wrong route, but it has been used in recent years, with the central control, with the clustering of broadcasting associations, with a caterpillar-enough, the NPO, and with the expanding state-controlled broadcasting NOS and NTR. The next battle is the present bill to amend the Media Act and to make public service broadcasting a genuine state service. The viewer is not central, the viewer is paged. Now that the broadcasting organizations surrender their broadcasting time and placement guarantees, they are being handed over to the gods the NPO network coordinators and now again an NPO genre coordinator. The Secretary of State states in the reply that the extent to which the offer is distinctive must be indicative. That's good. The Secretary of State also says that those choices are not up to him and that he likes to give that choice to the NPO. For example, this legislative proposal gives more powers to the NPO to actually make those choices. The NPO is too dependent on choices and proposals made by broadcasters which are obviously not in the interests of the whole. However, it is just at the heart of the public system that we know here, that we do not allow the content to be determined by the NPO, but by the broadcasting organizations and in this respect also by the broadcasting organizations, although they could be a little less. What does that mean? It only leads to a kind of arbitrariness and to the public broadcasting organizations becoming simple production houses. They are allowed to deliver, but the only thing that remains is the grant guarantee, although it is already being reduced by a little bit. The latest trick is now the introduction of the so-called access of outside producers. What a ridiculous argument to keep those clubs from sausage! However, there is no guarantee of broadcasting. As an outside producer, you have no guarantee that you will be placed. So it's a dead sparrow. Fortunately, broadcasting associations do not have to formally get proposals pushed down the throat, but the NTR does. That may, as I read in the documents, at most object and appeal. Who's setting that up with? And will the decision of the NPO be suspended until the appeal or objection has been dealt with? The broadcasting organizations can formally refuse, but they can then be squeezed off by the NPO in a variety of ways, for example by an unfavourable placement of programmes or bluntly by rejecting programmes that supposedly would not fit the public remit as the NPO fills in. That is also the reason why the placement of external programmes is truly incredibly unbelievable and unholy. One could say that they are not sufficiently involved, but the European requirement is 10% for outside producers. In the Netherlands we have imposed 16.5% as a requirement. In reality, it is currently 30.6%. Therefore, it cannot be the involvement of outside producers in public service broadcasting. Then what is it? It actually comes down to something quite different, namely a lot of bias, unproven theories and woolly lyrics that are produced. If you shallowly follow the Secretary of State, and most of you do so, then public broadcasting is irrelevant, not creative, not innovative, not forward-looking, not future-proof and a few more open doors. That's easy to say to bash the public service. Defense isn't possible, and it's gonna go like crap. Then you wonder: what are these qualifications all based on, for example when it comes to creativity? This access must be provided by externals because there is no creativity. Ultimately, it's about the best ideas, the best creative ideas. According to the Secretary of State, they should lead to a creative competition. But it's not a competition at all. They're just ideas. There isn't a competition until something can be won, when your idea is taken over. But that's from all times. All outside producers have always been able to supply products to broadcasting organisations and to task organisations. These are then included or not in the programmes of the broadcaster concerned. Does the Secretary of State mean that there are no creative programmes at all? Of course you can. Then it means that all of a sudden there will be creative programs, which apparently was not the case in the past; that is to say, a gatspe. The Secretary of State then calls in all newspapers for public service broadcasting to become relevant. Mr Mohandis just did this. Who decides? When is it relevant? When is the programme relevant? Those are discussions you'll never get out of. What I consider relevant, the Secretary of State does not have to consider relevant. Any substantive discussion about a programme is doomed to failure in an open democracy. Anyone can find what they want. That is also the basis of freedom. If you realize a centralized state broadcast, which is happening now in my view, it will leave you to some undemocratically appointed people. Fine, these people mean well, but they do determine the measure of things: relevant or irrelevant. Do we want to go down that road in an open, democratic, liberal Netherlands? The Management Board recommends adding innovation to the law. Then that happens. But innovation can never be a goal. Innovation is a term for achieving something. It is an empty container concept in terms of content. It doesn't mean anything because you don't know what innovation is. It's a process and how can you promote it? You can do something about that. How can you win or maintain a market? I've been accompanying innovation projects for years, and it's always about making a product or a service so that you can captivate or amuse the market, in this case the public service, the viewer or some of the viewers. Quality is also an important criterion. What is quality? There too, you can release all kinds of values that are not defined at all and where you as a government have to stay outside. If the NPO wants to give that content, the NPO needs substantive, source-related guidance. What's all that based on? Nowhere is there any indication as to why this should be done. There is only one thing and that is the source, the report of the Council for Culture Time is open. This is frequently mentioned as a source. But that's just parrots. That whole report doesn't prove anything. They are only assumptions from the perception of the authors, good people don't, but there isn't a single hard figure. On the contrary, the NPO channels are the best viewed TV channels in the Netherlands. So these broadcasting organizations aren't doing so badly. The whole report of the Culture Council is a kind of trend-watching, glass bulbs, completely meaningless, but nice as a discussion piece. But it's now being presented as evidence of platinums and, even worse, as a reason to amend the Media Act. Even worse than the opinion of the Culture Council, the Secretary of State refers to the reactions of NDP Newsmedia, the Association of Independent Television Producers, Film Producers Netherlands, the Documentary Producers Netherlands, the Association for Dutch Animation Producers and the Film Fund. All of them would like to take advantage of the opportunities for innovation, creativity and openness that would suddenly enrich public service broadcasting. Thank you the cuckoo! Of course, that makes sense. They have a commercial interest in being able to sell programmes that are not available at the moment and which they cannot now sell to the broadcasting organizations. There's nothing wrong with that in itself. That is the good right of a commercial company, but it is inappropriate as an argument. It is often said that the problem is that we all have compromises in this public service broadcasting. Broadcasters, as the Secretary of State says, have their own mission and vision and work broadly on the basis of the assignment they receive from an association and its members. That is the basis for recognition. This does not automatically create the programming which, according to the Secretary of State, serves all groups in society. We have an open system to ensure that PowNed, WNL, broadcasting MAX, the VPRO and the EO can also get their place within public broadcasting. The government feels it is undesirable that all this should happen and then proposes measures that would be in the interest of the entire public service broadcasting system, which are based on 17 million Dutch citizens. In short, the result is purely state discipline. It leads to a piece of unity in public service broadcasting which undermines the democratic basis of public service broadcasting and its existence. Freedom leaves room for these broadcasting organizations and for that external pluralism. Not only are the programmes at the forefront, but also the goal that you are aiming for with each other. I'm joining the NPO fund now. I've read through it, and my question is very simple. What is the difference between the Media Fund, which contains EUR 16.6 million, and the NPO Fund? The difference is not clear at all. In fact, it is stated by the Secretary of State that the budget will be earmarked for performance agreements, and we are pleased to see that this will be taken into account every year. There's a whole set of rules. The difference with the Media Fund is not at all relevant. In fact, the system of the Media Fund is similar to that of the NPO Fund, but we still see a few problems. One of the problems to which I would like to hear an answer from the Secretary of State is the issue of regional documentaries. The regional broadcasters could also call on the Media Fund. Now everything is part of the NPO and not part of the RPO. The regions themselves will now have to go back to the NPO fund. Will the Secretary of State give a guarantee that the regional documentaries will also be earmarked in the budget of the NPO fund? I would have preferred to see the duration of the concession for regional broadcasting longer. In the meantime, I have some concerns about the timing and timeliness of implementing the changes and achieving the austerity that we have agreed with each other. It takes almost three years for the Secretary of State to come up with this policy, and now with steam and boiling water the implementation has to take place in a year. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that limiting the duration of the concession from ten to four years is only related to an equalising policy between NPO and RPO? Does this not lead to further discussions on the integration of national and regional broadcasting? Regional broadcasting is getting to know where it is going very late and must now make all the changes in a good year. Is this real? Does the Secretary of State consider this to be careful, especially to the employees? Is he prepared not to place the cause and the financial consequences of this on the regional broadcasters, but to take them on his own and engage in further talks with the ROOS and the future RPO? The RPO as coordinator can, of course, be very positive. I think this is a good development in itself in the interests of regional broadcasters. It is now unclear how this necessary and praised by the Secretary of State can be guaranteed independence from the programme offerings and often related activities at locations in the provinces. Omrop Frieslân, with its own legally anchored language, will have to continue to be able to give substance to its objectives within the limits of the Media Act. I would like a further clarification on this point. We would also like to hear a more detailed explanation and clarification of the position of local broadcasters. Mr Mohandis, whom I do not see for a moment, was also talking about it. The NLPO (Dutch Local Broadcasting Foundation), with 20,000 volunteers and 500 employees, has an important basis in our society. However, we do not see anything about public service broadcasting. We want that to be clarified. Also, support needs to be improved. Then there's public involvement. It is stated that it concerns 17 million viewers and 3.5 million members, with everything that goes with it. I don't think that's gonna be enough. Public involvement should therefore be increased, but how and what remains completely unclear. Vagueness is a trump card at that point. That is why I am tabling an amendment. If public involvement is to be given content, it must be done in cooperation with broadcasting organisations. After all, they are present in all the capillaries of our society. An idea for a follow-up could be to actually increase public involvement through broadcasting elections. Broadcasting elections offer space for the entire Dutch population and can ensure a proper distribution of the different currents in public broadcasting. People can vote for broadcasting organisations and anyone who believes that they can contribute to public service broadcasting. In my second term, I shall return to that with a motion. I am not going to say so much about the NPO's concession policy plan. There's gonna be another reaction. What is curious is the timing and the way things are going. A concession policy plan is being made on the basis of the Media Act as it currently stands, i.e. the Media Act 2008. Then it is said: you must make a concession policy plan as if the new law is already there. Then it turns out there's a little bit of a blur. In the note following the report there are a number of stitches under water in the direction of NPO and the College of Broadcasts in the vein of: you have not filled it out properly and you should have done much better. I find it extremely careless and, as I said earlier, quite illogical in law. If the NPO is asked to ensure a concession policy plan, it is logical that they do so on the basis of the current law and not on the basis of something that may or may not be amended at a later date. That seems to me to be turning things around. I still have two varia, as beautifully called. Firstly, I have asked the Secretary of State about the payment of guests in talk shows. I don't want to know how much they're getting, although this morning it was neatly in the Algemeen Dagblad. However, it is important that you can talk about journalistic integrity. Who sits there as entertainment and who actually sits there as a guest? Guests who are paid also have a huge interest in coming back, so they have to stay fun to catch one more time. I await with interest the answers to the questions. There has also been talk of transparency about the costs of programmes. I am in favour of good accountability for public money spending, but I am not in favour of transparency for transparency. Because you can't send those programs. For example, we all want transparency in what is being spent on railways. That's what we want because we can steer at that point. How can we make the Dutch track even better? However, this is not the case in the case of programmes unless we really want to go to a system where censorship is possible and programmes can be discussed afterwards. I, too, have received and supported the petition on Radio 6. It's a ridiculous idea to add a piece of Radio 6 to Radio 2. Radio 2 is becoming more and more like a commercial transmitter, with a top 2000, with eight days "The Eighties" et cetera. In short, I don't think it's a good idea to cancel Radio 6. In another context, I have already had a discussion on the constitutional review. The Court should pay much more attention to the constitutionality of legislative proposals. In this context, it is wise to look at Article 7 (2) of the Constitution. It says that there should be no prior monitoring of radio and TV. It is still a question of whether this bill is being implemented sneaking in. This would lead to conflict with the Constitution. I think that would be a very bad thing. After all, we want to uphold our Constitution. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. I come to the amendments, as far as I have not yet discussed them. An amendment has been tabled on steering. It is quite clear that we should not in any way be directed by the NPO. We must only work with the current system of cooperation and coordination. The NPO should promote and coordinate cooperation, not steer it. With Mr Van Dijk, I have tabled an amendment on improving checks-and-balances. This concerns an opinion by the College of Broadcasts on binding rules of the NPO. We need to ensure that much better in this law. In doing so, we can create an equal position for broadcasting organisations and the NPO. There's also a really weird article in there. It states that the NPO may enter one editor. That seems a little weird to me. We propose to create three editors, one for example, one for sound and one for the Internet. That seems much better to us than setting up a kind of central editorial system that deals with all services. It is important to maintain profiling. It has been said that this profiling should be removed, but it offers the opportunity to distinguish between the different channels. This profiling also offers the possibility not to go into the content, but to ask, for example, why a channel is a journalistic channel. As far as I am concerned, that profiling requirement that is currently in the law must remain in the law. I also tabled an amendment on the nomination of the Supervisory Board of the NPO. We have had a small debate on this. It cannot be the case that this direction from the state is becoming more and more a state-driven NPO is being given extra emphasis in the appointment policy. That is why I propose an appointment policy in which an independent committee could give binding advice. This is also the case with the trust committee in the municipality. That's a similar situation. Free-minded politics means that we must have participation in all areas of the public domain, including broadcasting. We must ensure that participation is properly regulated there. At present, participation takes place through the broadcasting organizations. As far as we are concerned, that will have to remain the case. The broadcasting organizations must maintain a strong position, but this legislative proposal is sneaking down more and more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u181	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u182	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the amendment of the Media Act. It feels a bit like 3FM Serious Request: we just keep going until we're done. In a letter in October 2014, I gave a vision on the future order of public service broadcasting. Now it's translated into a bill. The many reactions over the past year, for example in the Chamber, have shown that the bill has loosened a lot. There is an honourable mention for Mr Klein, with no less than 100 of the total 300 questions. Fantastic. It is also evident from the many letters we have received, the talks that have taken place with the NPO, the Council for Culture, the Media Commission, the independent television producers, the Association for Commercial Publications, the Dutch Film Fund, Filmmakers Netherlands and other producer organisations. That's a good sign. This means it's really alive. There are positive reactions. The Culture Council highlights the importance of a new solid foundation for making public broadcasting future-proof. Independent producers are enthusiastic about opening the shutters of the public system. There was also support for the call for a more distinctive broadcaster. There were also critical reactions. There were people who were shouting that nothing is ever going to change in Hilversum or that The Hague is interfering too much with the programming in Hilversum. There were broadcasters who were critical. I understand that the broadcasters are not equally pleased with every part of the bill, but I am glad to see that quite soon after the bill was in the Chamber, there was a joint letter from the NPO and the broadcasters, who have committed themselves to work vigorously within the framework of the new Media Act. That drive is urgently needed when we look at all the changes around us. It's a time when the media landscape is constantly renewing and changing. It is a time when the daily videos of a vlogger like Enzo Knol are viewed better than a popular teenage program like SpangaS. Something was said about the rise of Netflix. It's huge. 1.3 million households have a subscription to Netflix, in a time of two years. How does watching television change? This is increasingly happening online and increasingly non-linear, ultimately at the expense of linear, traditional television. Dutch youngsters spend only 30% of their video time on old-fashioned television. That is why I think it is so important that the NPO is also active on all kinds of other platforms with the public context. The media landscape is changing at a furious pace. Media usage is changing. There are new international players and new distribution methods. The offer is almost infinite. I liked the fact that in his speech Mr Rutte went back to the way things were when all we had was public service broadcasting. Now the spectrum of choices is so large that you can lose yourself in it. This also calls for a rethink of the tasks of public service broadcasting. The need for change is widely shared. The Culture Council says in its report Time is open to the need for a change in thinking and for the foundation of public service broadcasting to be worn out. It is said by the public service broadcaster himself, who wants to go along with time. It is said by other stakeholders, such as independent creators, civil society organisations, companies, commercial parties. Public broadcasters abroad are also thinking about their position. The discussions in Flanders and the United Kingdom are conducted along exactly the same lines as we have here today. All this requires and starts with adequate and future-proof frameworks in the law, and that is why we are discussing this bill today. I will deal with the questions in a number of blocks. I would like to start with the debate on a distinctive public service broadcasting, which concerns the tightening up of the task and discussion on entertainment, but also the role of public service broadcasting in terms of talent development, radio in general, and the activities of public service broadcasting on the Internet. The second block would, as far as I am concerned, be about the openness of the public system. A number of spokesmen have asked what the situation is. I have been critical of this in the written answer to the questions. I will go into the concession policy plan in relation to the law, because it is good to clarify that. In the third block, I will focus on the more central direction, the more central role of the NPO and how it relates to the role of broadcasters. The fourth block is about checks and balances. I've identified two major themes there. One concerns the role of the Supervisory Board, the Board of Directors and the appointments there and the second issue that was dominant there was about the transparency that we demand from public service broadcasting. The fifth block concerns the region, in which I would like to comment briefly on what this proposal regulates about regional broadcasters and the position of Omrop Fryslân, and I would like to answer some of those questions in writing, also in view of the time of this debate. It's possible. This bill regulates relatively little when it comes to the plans around the region. That comes back to a bill the Chamber gets next year. If I answer these questions in writing, we can come back to them in detail in the WHO as far as I am concerned. If there are things that the Chamber wants to answer today because it is important to support this law, please let me know. I have listened carefully to the Chamber and I think I know about what areas it is in. The last block deals with other topics. There are things like the NPO fund and the questions about advertising. The proposal to tighten up the public media mission leads to a lot of discussion. It is actually about the core tasks of public service broadcasting: what is public service broadcasting now on earth? The core for me is that public service broadcasting makes programmes with public added value. This is in two elements, namely what is being created, programmes aimed at a public function, information, culture and education, and in the way it is made, independent, pluralism, quality, innovative and distinctive. In particular, on the first part of the "what is being made" "in this legislative proposal" there is a tightening up. The core task is to offer a broad and diverse audience that informs, contributes to education and touches on cultural identity. This means that entertainment with this proposal is no longer a core task for public service broadcasting. Entertainment can still be a good tool. In my view, this is also entirely in line with the letter I sent to the Chamber last year. I would like to quote from that, because some Members have given the impression that we are suddenly saying something different in this legislative proposal than we said at the time. The letter literally states "There must always be a clear public objective that justifies the introduction of tax money into programmes. For some programs that only seek pleasure and entertainment, that is not evident. That certainly doesn't mean that entertainment is taboo from now on. It can sometimes be a good way to attract attention to culture or education, for example." That is exactly what we have worked out in this legislative proposal. Entertainment can be a means of making informational, educational or a cultural program attractive and accessible to a wide audience. In addition, you can reach a difficult target audience or a broad audience with entertainment programs, but then you have to ensure that these people also look at programmes with a cultural, educational or informative task. In the latter case too, therefore, there must be a very clear link to the key tasks of information, culture and education, and it must also be demonstrated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u183	The Secretary of State is now pretending to say exactly what he's doing now a year ago. Of course, that's not true. On the Veronica ship, in all sorts of interviews and at all times when everyone could watch, the Secretary of State expressed very firm words about programmes with entertainment in them. I'm not the only one who took it that way. The Secretary of State was going to put an end to a number of programmes, which is widely understood. Does the Secretary of State admit that the programmes he mentioned at the time, such as Bananasplit and Ranking the Stars, will all remain possible without any change if this law has entered into force?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u184	No, those programs aren't possible. Entertainment programmes only for entertainment, which only seek pleasure or entertainment, can no longer be made after this change of law. It must always serve the core tasks of public service broadcasting: information, culture and education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u185	There's another article in the law on entertainment. This is not about entertainment as a carrier of information and education; no, it is about entertainment as a lure from viewers to information and education. So if Ranking the Stars, Bananasplit or any other programme that the Secretary of State has mentioned makes sure that more people are going to look at a programme that does fall within the core tasks, it will comply with that article of the law and would still be allowed to do so. And that also without any justification, because of course that is not hard to make. So, according to this law, these programmes can still just come on television under the guise of "they attract viewers"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u186	Mr Verhoeven is wrong. He says if entertainment reaches a wide audience, we're done. That is not what we are proposing with this bill. There must be a very clear link with a broad audience, which then also looks at cultural, informative and educational programmes. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. He says that entertainment remains possible without it having to be demonstrated that those same viewers are then going to look at programmes that are very close to the core tasks of public service broadcasting. That's not true. The explanatory statement clearly states that we are going to ask the public service broadcaster to demonstrate that. This really is a change in the way in which the core tasks of public service broadcasting are now described. They are much wider. The current task of public service broadcasting is even so broad that it is a sort of sieve through which everything falls. On the basis of the core tasks of public service broadcasting, there is currently no critical discussion at all as to what should or should not be done within public service broadcasting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u187	If I understand correctly, is entertainment a means of using information and education, in this case the two most important things you mention? But if everyone justifies that their program has an informative, educational or cultural element in it, can it just happen? Is that how you want me to interpret it? Isn't this a non-discussion? You can do that neatly beforehand, of course. Unless you want to go back to censorship and say they didn't do well. So we're actually discussing nothing here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u188	I am less pessimistic than Mr Klein. I see a tightening up of the core tasks of public service broadcasting. Indeed, it means that every programmemaker must show why his programme contributes to the core tasks of public service broadcasting, and why it has an informative, educational or cultural function. That's something that's not happening at the moment. The current law gives a free pass for past and past entertainment to broadcast the entertainment, without having to be held accountable. I therefore believe that this legislative proposal is a very important step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u189	Mr Klein, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u190	I am not pessimistic, on the contrary, I am very optimistic. I have great confidence in the creativity and inventiveness of the broadcasting organizations and programmers. I think they can account for all programmes of entertainment from a cultural, educational or informative vision. That's very wise. In that respect, I am therefore very positive. However, it is a non-discussion, because you can make every program fit into the entertainment image in relation to information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u191	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u192	Is the Secretary of State gonna check this out and then censor it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u193	No, we don't do censorship. However, we ask the public service broadcaster to develop a good framework of scrutiny which will enable the NPO, the one who ultimately places the programmes on television and radio, to review the offers made by the creators.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u194	Mr Van Dijk also has a question on this point. Then I'll give the Secretary of State another chance to move on with his story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u195	The last thing the Secretary of State said is different from what he said earlier in answer to that question. Ranking the Stars, Bananasplit and other entertainment programs would disappear. The Secretary of State said this was really gonna change. That is contrary to the fact that we, the Secretary of State and the Members, are not at all talking about programme titles. Does he agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u196	With regard to the programmes you have just mentioned, I have openly asked why these programmes are made with taxpayers' money. I have seen that this has led to a lot of discussion. By the way, no one has told a good story as to why they should be paid with taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u197	The Secretary of State is not answering my question, but that aside. The answer is given, for example, by Mr Mohandis, in Trouw on 28 August. He says entertainment just stays to attract viewers. According to him this is a good thing: entertainment is the cement for the educational, cultural and informational programming of public service broadcasting. So the cement. Again, the Secretary of State cannot say that from today on Bananasplit and Ranking the Stars are forbidden. That seems very unwise to me. He agrees with me, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u198	We are not talking about abolishing individual programmes. I raised a question openly at the time, because I think that public service broadcasting should be more accountable and should have a critical discussion about why you are using taxpayers' money to create certain programmes. Under the old law, it was possible, because entertainment was a core task. That is how it is currently regulated in the law, but that core task disappears. This means that the programme makers in Hilversum must show why the programmes they create have an educational, informative or cultural function. That can be done in two ways. They're both laid down in the law. They can create programs with an amusing nature, but with a deeper layer in them. I believe that the terms "edutainment" and "infotainment" have already been mentioned here. There are very nice examples of children's programs or knowledge quizzes and you name it all. That's not a problem at all. You can also use entertainment that doesn't have that layer in it, but then you have to show that it reaches a target group that you wouldn't otherwise reach and you have to show that it will then also look at other programs. This is how you achieve your goal, namely your core task in education, culture and information. That's the route we're taking now. At the moment there is no responsibility in Hilversum. Entertainment programmes are being developed that do not lead to more viewers in other areas. Or entertainment is made without a solid educational, informative or cultural component. That debate is really being intensified with this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u199	I would also ask the Secretary of State to reply briefly where possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u200	Yes. As I said, this is not an empty discussion. This discussion should be conducted on the basis of the review framework. The Media Commissioner has said about this: if we, as a regulator, have to look at whether public service broadcasting is complying with this new task, this must be done in a structured manner, on the basis of a review framework which will check each programme against the public media mission. This review framework is used to make choices: which programmes are made and broadcast and which are not? The review framework ensures that a broadcaster cannot get away with a weak story about the public values and goals of a programme. In addition to the programme maker, the NPO also checks whether a programme fits the enhanced assignment. Afterwards, the Media Commissioner will also review this, as it will have to check whether the NPO carries out its task within the limits of the law. All in all, this leads to a serious discussion within public service broadcasting about the core tasks of public service broadcasting and the core tasks of programmes. At the moment, every programme has a story to come up with: because it fits public service broadcasting, because scattering is also a core task at the moment and because the current definition of core tasks is so broad that it does not give any direction. It's okay for me to change that. The discussion on the review framework has not yet been completed. I think it is very important that external experts think about scientists and others think about the development of such a review framework, which will then be independently validated. In my view, the proposal that the NPO has included in its concession policy plan is not yet in line with the enhanced mandate in this legislative proposal. I'm not the only one who finds this. This is also noted by the Media Commissioner. It has to be done, of course, because otherwise public service broadcasting will not be able to justify how it does its job. That is one of the things I am talking about with the NPO and which the Chamber can expect back in my formal response to the concession policy plan. The Commissioner is the party that ultimately has to validate and verify whether the framework works and can be used properly by the public service broadcaster. In my response to the concession policy plan, I will return to that. Rehearsal questions have been asked about the public media mission and precisely what it includes. I think Mr Grashoff has talked about this. He asked us exactly what we mean by information culture and education. I also found Mr Heerma's speech interesting. He talked about the values that bind us. The cultural function of public broadcasting is, of course, not limited to art and culture in its narrowest form, but also concerns the values that bind us and the question of what the Netherlands looks like. In my opinion, what Mr Heerma has quoted fits very well within the public values that we now lay down in this law. Another example is language skills. The link to education is quickly established in my view. I do not think that we should decide from The Hague what public service broadcasting should do at programme level. When I hear these things, however, I see no reason why this should not fit into the future public service remit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u201	I am glad that the Secretary of State sees it as such, but at the end of my speech I referred to the Van Dam motion, which was broadly supported by the Chamber. In his motion, the author made an explicit reference to public service broadcasting. This motion is now being carried out by the Cabinet. I wonder what the role of the Secretary of State is in this. Moreover, I will be the last to fight against the fact that we are not talking about this at programme level; rather, I criticised the Secretary of State for trying to do so. I would like an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u202	I too am contributing to the implementation of the Van Dam motion when it comes to shared values. Mr Heerma is quite right that the media also play a role in this and have a binding role in our society. A lot of people watch a lot of television. This is happening more and more in new ways, but still. It's a good way to reach Dutch. That is, I think, also the reason why you should and can say that public service broadcasting is also a collective provision in that sense. That was an interesting path that came back in a number of speeches. We all do this as taxpayers, because it fulfils a specific function, although I think that it can be sharper than it is today. Mr Verhoeven has tabled an amendment. He asks why we explicitly described entertainment in this bill. If it's a cure, why can't you just leave it out, so to speak? It's been included in the bill because there's been a lot of discussion about it. It is the importance of a law to clarify. It must be clear that entertainment is not a taboo, that public service broadcasting can just be laughed at, but it must also be clear that it is not an end in itself. The deletion of entertainment/scatteredness is a change. Entertainment may contribute to the execution of the core tasks, but by including them in this way, at least we have made it clear. Moreover, by including entertainment in the explicit terms of reference of the law, broadcasting is obliged to demonstrate that entertainment actually contributes to the core tasks of public service broadcasting. That is one of the reasons why I reject the amendment. Mr Segers is asking for another element in the task of public service broadcasting, which is philosophy. He asks: can this not become an explicit part of the media assignment? I don't think that's necessary. View of life is already part of that mission. The second paragraph of Article 2.1 states that public service broadcasting is obliged to include in its media offering the beliefs, views and interests of the population in terms of life. In this respect, consideration of life is also part of education, culture and information. In addition, for the next concession period, specific budget will be committed along the lines of the motion which I believe he tabled together with Mr Heerma at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u203	This is not met if the earmarked money is spent. That is to continue the old 242 programming. But philosophy is, of course, a much broader aspect that can play a role in all kinds of programmes and in all kinds of areas. As far as I'm concerned, there has to be plenty of room for that. I hope the Secretary of State will confirm that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u204	I've just read a piece of the law that I think has plenty of room for that. Mr Mohandis has produced another element: talent development. I have the impression that this bill also provides for this. The proposal mandates public service broadcasting to stimulate innovation in the media sector. For example, you can see for a sec what the NPO is going to do to remedy the fact that the Media Fund will be closed down as of 1 January 2017. It is particularly important for public service broadcasting to pay attention to innovation in the media supply. One of the tasks of the Media Fund was to stimulate talent. The Culture Council also calls for attention to be given to this in its opinion. The NPO has announced that the Media Fund's talent development scheme will be taken over. Then I'll come to the subject of radio. A number of groups have asked for this. Most of the discussions on the ability to distinguish and the tightening up of the core tasks of public service broadcasting are about television. That is also true: many of the discussions last year were about television programmes. The same applies, of course, to the radio. I adjust the public media assignment and then radio is the same as television. There must be sharper choices and public radio must be public and therefore distinctive. As far as I am concerned, the public function of the radio is in two elements. The first is the choice of music. That's the "what": the genres. The second is the frame of that music. Then it's about the profile of a radio station, the type of DJs you ask for, the items and the space you give in your programming to young talent and innovation. I think what 3FM does with young singer-songwriters is always a good example. This has a very important task in discovering new talents and stimulating culture. I believe that public service broadcasting should show the difference with commercial channels both in terms of unique music titles and the profile of radio stations. We will make performance agreements on this later this year. This subject becomes very specific when asked about the possible termination of Radio 6. Cultural organisations have sent a letter and the Culture Council has also made some critical comments on the disappearance of Radio 6. It is mainly about the genres jazz and soul. With some other genres these may not be genres the masses listen to. However, it is culturally important that they are preserved for public service broadcasting and that they clearly return to public service programming. A number of Members of Parliament have also asked for this, and I fully agree with that. There are two trajectories. The precise assessment of new services or the elimination of channels involves a formal-legal process. A new service procedure is needed for these channels of supply. This applies to Radio 6, but also to the other channels in the concession policy plan, such as NPO Plus and NPO3.nl. Within this procedure, I have a formal path to follow, with two important advisory bodies, namely the Culture Council and the Commission, giving me opinions. Then I'll have to take a formal draft decision. That's in preparation. After publication, interested parties will then be able to express their views, after which I will have to take a final decision. I find it difficult to make all kinds of statements in this debate on this particular legal procedure. I don't think that's a sign of good governance either. However, I can say that I think it is important that public service broadcasting continues to pay great attention to these genres, whichever way the decision on Radio 6 is taken. This can be on a separate channel, as is the case now, or clearly identifiable on other radio channels.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u205	I understand that we still have to wait for all kinds of advice and then come back to it later. However, do I also understand that the Secretary of State says that attention should be paid to the genres that Radio 6 pays exclusive attention to, especially soul and jazz? Does he see the importance of this and therefore does he not exclude that NPO Radio 6 can stay?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u206	I'm not ruling anything out right now. However, I do not want to raise expectations either. We're in the middle of a trial. Mr Van Dijk saw that the Culture Council had advised on this. That is an important advice; I need to consider it and hear all the parties before I make a final decision. As far as I am concerned, all options are still open at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u207	We all heard that right. The Secretary of State doesn't rule anything out. Moreover, the House of Representatives can also make a decision. In any case, it is good to know that the initial proposal of the NPO to delete NPO Radio 6 can still be completely different, thanks to either the Secretary of State or the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u208	I have a formal decision to make, and I would like to do so as carefully as possible. D66 asked about the new service procedure and the research that we have carried out into how our new service test relates to a number of service tests abroad. That research is now complete and I am studying it carefully. I had hoped to be able to respond to this debate, but the Chamber was so quick to plan this debate that it did not succeed. I can promise that I will send the House the policy response to the budget debate on the media. It seems interesting to me to talk about it in more detail. Questions have also been asked about the prohibition of service. The Media Act contains rules on the promotion of third parties by public service broadcasters. Public service broadcasting programmes should be made independent of commercial influences. This is secured, among other things, by the prohibition of service, but also by regulations in the field of advertising, avoidable advertising and sponsorship. I would stress that the rules for public service broadcasting are many times stricter than those for commercial broadcasting, such as: no programme-interrupting advertising and significantly less sponsorship. The prohibition of service does not prevent normal economic action. The point is that third parties in cooperation with public service broadcasting do not obtain more than normal profit or other competitive advantage. That's what we're talking about. This is often the issue that arises in many public-private partnerships, on which Europe is sometimes strict. In conclusion, I would like to comment on Mr Bosma's comments in this block. Mr Bosma blamed the NPO for giving too much attention to those who were pro-refugees and paid too little attention to the concerns and protests in society. When I watched television last night, I could not escape the impression that there was a great deal of attention for that too. I also believe that the picture that is outlined is definitely incorrect. When we compare the news reports with those in many countries around us, we see that there is a great deal of attention being paid to the bottlenecks that are causing the high-growth flow of refugees to Europe, or indeed to Europe. The Netherlands, as a whole. That is perfectly understandable. It has a major impact on the Dutch population. The cause of many people fleeing is a terrible one. Moreover, I would remind Mr Bosma once again that the basic provisions of the Media Act guaranteeing that both public and private broadcasters themselves are responsible for the form and content of their media offerings are, as far as I am concerned, out of discussion. The government has nothing to do with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u209	I have another question on the previous point, but I did not want to interrupt the Secretary of State, nor did I want to deprive Mr Bosma of the opportunity to intervene on the last point. The Secretary of State gave some explanation as to what the ban on servitude would entail. I had asked questions about a specific situation and I asked him if he would ask the NPO if there was no violation of the ban on service. I haven't really heard an answer to that. Is that gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u210	If I remember correctly, Mr Rutte talks about tickets being given away for all kinds of festivals. I understand from the Media Commissioner that this is a subject which is considered more closely how it fits in with legislation and regulations. I think that the Commissioner is the institution that, when it comes to implementing the Media Act, should monitor it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u211	Then I interpret that as "it's under the judge right now." Then we cannot talk about this now and let me rest for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u212	It's not like it'd be under the judge. I do not mean to say that there is an investigation, but I understand that they are looking at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u213	How many interruptions do we have in this part of the debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u214	We didn't agree to that. You're in charge of your own interruptions. We haven't agreed on the amount of interruptions, but I'll be a little careful that you don't place more than one or two interruptions per block. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u215	We're shutting down the block of entertainment now. The Secretary of State pretends to be doing exactly what he said a year ago, but I think that the people sitting in the gallery here today who listened with surprise to the Secretary of State's press conference last year, and perhaps quite shocked by it, are going to laugh tonight if they look at that press conference again and see the difference between the comments made today and what he said last year. I think it is important to stress that the Secretary of State reminds me very much of Prime Minister Rutte, for example, who says: no more money to the Greeks. The Secretary of State said no more entertainment on television. The conclusion reached by me and my group is that all forms of entertainment remain on television. So nothing changes at all. Does the Secretary of State want to respond to that one more time before we close this book anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u216	I think Mr Verhoeven is completely out of line here. I often see that in this debate. There are parties who are crying out: there must be no more laughing at public service broadcasting. There are parties on the other side of the political spectrum who are calling out: everything remains the same. Neither one of them is right. I've been very consistent in my eyes. I can read to you again from the letter I sent to the Chamber last year. It was about tightening up the core tasks of public service broadcasting, but that does not mean that entertainment is taboo from now on. It can sometimes be a good means of attracting attention to......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is exactly what we have explained in this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u217	Mr Verhoeven, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u218	Attaboy, my last question about that. Would the Secretary of State, if he could put the time back a year and if he were back on that ship, knowing that he would end up doing it this way, come up with a totally hollowed-out law that doesn't live up to what he's promised, would he do it again in the same way he did? Or would he have moderated his tone, so that expectations and results would have been a little closer together? Just in full disclosure. It's night anyway, we can be honest with each other now. Let us be clear on this point. Because it really annoys me. The Secretary of State is kidding. I'm gonna keep finding that. He's trying his best to say it's not true, but I don't see anything different from the old situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u219	I am glad that Mr Verhoeven sees no difference from the old situation, which was the presentation at the time on the Veronica ship.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u220	I didn't mean it like that!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u221	I think I am very consistent in what I said then and what I am saying now. I would have done it just like that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u222	I still need some self-reflection from the Secretary of State. Of course it wasn't then that they went to inventory where they were going to do that presentation and by chance the Veronica ship was still free and that's why they started doing it there. It has, of course, happened knowingly and knowingly there. That was a statement: everything goes on the shovel, everything goes upside down. Then the Secretary of State cannot say: I would have done exactly the same thing, and that is entirely in line with what is now on the table? I do not mind at all if a law is amended or if there is plenty of consultation. That is the work we are doing here to make it a good law, but the Secretary of State cannot say here that this presentation was meaningless in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u223	The symbolism of that Veronica ship is made very big here. I am actually surprised that the Veronica ship, apparently decades after so many people's emotions, were still unleashing so much emotion, while I thought that in this whole discussion about an opener order and commercial parties joining, we were further away from the shock that we had left behind the fact that there are satellite programmes coming into our living rooms here from Luxembourg. To be honest, I do not understand that this is now seen as such a provocation. In my view, it contributes greatly to the statement we wanted to make at the time. Veronica has increased the pluralism of media offerings. We are pleased that we now have so many fantastic commercial channels in addition to public service broadcasting and that this can also be done within the public service by opening it up a little more and no longer being a monopoly of broadcasting organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u224	The Secretary of State is more naive than he is. The choice to stand on the ship of Veronica was very consciously a statement in the direction of public service broadcasting. Earlier we had an interview in Vrij Nederland in which the State Secretary sketched the picture that they were all owners in Hilversum and that it was very viscous, in short it was all terrible. He said this, while we had just finished the ink in which there were only eight broadcasting associations left. It was willing and knowing a tackle on the shins of public service broadcasting. You can, but then you can't say you're surprised it triggered so much emotion. That couldn't have surprised the Secretary of State. However, I see that we have grown towards consensus and good consultation. My encouragement is to continue to do so in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u225	I am very in favour of consensus and good consultation. I will not deny that it was not the last room that was still free in the Netherlands. That was supposed to happen. I find it overwhelmed to say it was such a provocation. I had a letter about an opener order. I have shown that new entrants can only increase pluralism on television and radio. A historical connection has been established with a discussion that was once loaded, but that was 30, 40 years ago. I think it's overwhelmed that there's so much fuzz about that right now. I think it was a very nice place to present that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u226	It is remarkable that the Secretary of State trivializes his own provocation. He could have gone to Nieuwspoort, but he didn't. He went to the Veronica ship. He should be proud of that. It was nice thought by the informers. I'll be back on those swindlers later. Now the Secretary of State says we shouldn't make it all that big.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u227	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u228	Does the Secretary of State deny that nothing has changed between that moment on the Veronica ship and today? That would hurt his coalition companion a little bit. It's just a negotiation, isn't it, and it's been adjusted?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u229	There's been an incredible amount of work done between then and now. Then we had a letter and now we have a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u230	Exactly, then we had a letter and now we have a law. Do you admit that the law we are discussing today proposed something different than you initially hoped for that Veronica ship? Do you admit that your coalition colleague, the Labour Party, has added this and watered down your plans on the Veronica ship? Do you recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u231	I can quote for the third time the letter in which there is something about a means and a purpose, but I do not know whether we should do so at this time of night. I see that the bill has been implemented right along that line.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u232	I'd like to separate the game from the marbles. That the Secretary of State is proud of a presentation that I thought was very stupid of him, that's up to him. The fact that the Secretary of State says on another point that we are not talking about programme titles gives a little hope that the marbles are all right. That is what I would like to hear from the Secretary of State. He's looking for support for his bill and he shouldn't talk about being proud of a presentation. The issue is whether programmes such as Ranking the stars are still possible if broadcasters can justify this within the law, if they can argue that correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u233	That depends very much on the link being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u234	That was in my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u235	That's not happening right now. That is exactly the question I raised. I raised the question at the time that I do not see why these programmes are made with taxpayers' money. If I can be convinced that this is to contribute to the core tasks of public service broadcasting that is not what has happened and no one has been able to convince me of this in the last 12 months, then it will be a different story. I am concerned that we should return to the core tasks of public service broadcasting: education, information and culture. Entertainment must always be at the service of those three things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u236	The Secretary of State forgets the element that they can attract that general public. The Secretary of State is running around the answer a little bit. If it is argued that it has that function, these programs can also be created. That's not out of the question. They're not outside the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u237	The law is very clear about that. Entertainment can be used to reach a wide audience if it also looks at programmes with a cultural, educational or informative function. This must also be demonstrated, with more than one weak story, at programme level. The burden of proof lies in Hilversum. I'm going to the second block, about the openness of the order. I got the impression that this is an important theme for many of you. What this bill is going to change is that the NPO will soon be able to decide that a programme will be made on the basis of a proposal from an external party, rather than just a traditional broadcaster. This decision now falls exclusively on broadcasters, which are also producers themselves. However, the NPO may also decide to directly attract programmes from outside producers or civil society organisations; anyone else with a good programme idea. This ensures that who is allowed to create a programme, whether it is a broadcaster itself or a producer, depends on who has the best proposal. We call that creative competition. The NPO will also be able to retrieve programmes which are not currently produced by a broadcaster or which do not fit in with a broadcasting mission. By proactively searching for supply that complements the current programming, the NPO can also increase pluralism. I agree with Mr Rutte who says that pluralism is not only from traditional broadcasters, but also from outside players. The NPO establishes the frameworks of the format, content, budget and rights that broadcasters as co-producer must then respect. The substantive objective of the NPO with a programme is always maintained. This gives the external producer the confidence that the proposal will be worked out in the way the producer and the NPO intended it. The NTR can be used if the NPO wants to create a program that does not fit the mission of another broadcaster. In response to the parliamentary questions on the concession policy plan, I wrote that the text of the NPO in the plan on how it works was not in conformity with the bill. This is because I find the way the concession policy plan works very unclear. The text can be interpreted in such a way that a broadcaster can change all kinds of frameworks, on which the NPO has previously made an appointment. As a result, it is long unclear for external producers what to expect. This cannot be the intention, because the bill states precisely that it must be clear that broadcasters must respect the frameworks set by the NPO. I don't have the impression that I'm the only one who thinks all this is very vague. The Culture Council also reacted very critically to this part of the concession policy plan. The external producers also reacted in a similar way, because there was no real clarity about their role and the precise working methods. In the meantime, I have checked with the NPO and also received further information. The NPO and the broadcasters sent a joint letter on 1 October. I think that's the letter Mr Heerma referred to. That letter says something different than in the concession policy plan. The detailed explanation shows that the development of openness is more in line with the principles of the legislative proposal. Let me briefly explain. When a proposal from an external producer comes to the NPO, the NPO will be the first to talk to that producer about, for example, the substantive objectives of the proposal, about an initial idea, about budget and about the related rights package. Of course, the NPO can also look for an external producer. Based on the interview with the external producer, the NPO then draws up frameworks. Those frameworks are about the format, content, budget and rights. The nature of the cooperation between the broadcaster and the external party is, of course, ultimately dependent on the frameworks provided by the NPO. These frameworks also depend on the kind of proposal that an external party comes up with. The Court can imagine that if it is a professional outside producer with a ready-made idea, it looks different and other agreements are made between the NPO and such a producer than if it is a social organisation that comes up with the first rough sketches. On the basis of the content proposal and the frameworks of the NPO, a broadcaster can indicate whether it is interested in transmitting or not. The NPO may also ask a broadcaster, e.g. the EO or Omroep MAX, to act as a co-producer in a specific proposal. I think it is important to mention that a broadcaster always has the choice of committing itself to an external party's proposal. There's no obligation. A network doesn't have to do this. If a broadcaster finds that the agreements made by the NPO with an external producer do not correspond to its profile, it is not obliged to do so. He may also decide not to. Then you leave it to someone else. If, in the end, all broadcasters do so, there is only an obligation for the NTR to act as a co-producer in such a case. It is very important to ensure that the frameworks set out by the NPO cannot be simply adapted and that there is clarity about the role of the NPO, the possibilities that this legislative proposal aims to create for outside producers and ideas and, of course, the role of traditional broadcasting organisations. It is important to ensure that the framework cannot be adapted, that broadcasting cannot simply change all kinds of frameworks. Those are fixed agreements, agreements made by an outside producer with the NPO. If they can just be changed by a network, they don't know what they're up to either. Of course, broadcasting can make suggestions to adapt them. That is good for the balance in the system. For example, broadcasters and external parties can make the best choices together. As a result, a proposal can be improved, because a broadcaster also has its own expertise. In the cooperation between an outside producer and a final broadcaster acting as a formal co-producer, new things can be discussed. I think it is important that these two go back to the NPO immediately and that it is ultimately the NPO that has to agree to any modification of those frameworks. In the joint letter which has been sent very recently, I find that last element much clearer than in the concession policy plan. It is important that NPO always has the final say on the frameworks, so that he can steer the substantive objective he had in mind with the programme. The external producer can also rely on the idea being implemented in the way in which the NPO has indicated it in the substantive frameworks discussed with him. I will discuss the further development of this debate with the NPO in the future. I specifically ask the NPO to work out the proposal in a clear procedure for all parties. It must be a procedure that is workable for the NPO, for broadcasters and for external producers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u238	Did you close this section, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u239	I still have some loose questions to answer about this part, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u240	Let's do a round of interruptions first, because there are a lot of spokesmen at the interrupting microphone. I would ask them to put the questions briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u241	Well, we complement each other very well, Mr. Chairman, so that won't be a problem. The Secretary of State begins his speech on the external producers by stating that the NPO is at the helm on the substantive side of the programming. So the NPO itself indicates which programmatic preference is there. That should end up somewhere at some point, but that's verse two. Isn't that basic idea totally against the spirit of the Media Act? The NPO has no democratic legitimacy whatsoever. However, this NPO will determine the content of the programmes that could still be offered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u242	No, that does not go against the law at all, because we now have a legislative proposal before us to make that possible. If I remember correctly, Mr Heerma said that he found it interesting that in the proposal of the Culture Council, the hybrid character is not pushed aside on the left or right side, but that it will always be somewhat hybrid. The present legislative proposal is also somewhat hybrid. That hybrid character is a bit in the media system of Hilversum anyway. If you want to make it possible not only for traditional broadcasters to offer programme ideas, but also for external producers to do so, so that programme ideas are no longer only introduced through the gateway of those traditional broadcasters, then the NPO should also be able to talk to such an external producer about the content. It should not be about the details, but it should be about the substantive frameworks and about the format.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u243	We are therefore dealing with the broadcasting organizations. They can say: don't do the program, because it doesn't suit us. Nor should they talk about updating the content of the programme, so these broadcasting organizations say: we do not do such a programme. That leaves only the two mission broadcasters NOS and NTR. They have the same job now. That is where the outside producers would be able to go, and that is where they can put their stuff. Furthermore, they already have the possibility of 30.6% in public service broadcasting. So what does this add? In my view, only extra substantive interference from the NPO, a completely undemocratically organized company.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u244	I leave that last qualification to Mr Klein. However, I see a big difference from the way things are going. The NPO can now choose between the programmes offered by traditional broadcasting organisations and by the two task broadcasters. We're gonna enlarge that palette. Outside producers or civil society organisations will be able to go directly to the NPO with good programme ideas. If the NPO wants to program a late night show at some point, it can draw on the good ideas of the broadcasters, but perhaps there are others who have good ideas for it. This increases the playing field and creates more creative competition. I believe that this will improve the quality and pluralism of public service broadcasting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u245	It is good to have my motion 34100-VIII, piece no. Sixty-four more. Let's read again exactly what it says. The motion calls on the government, in the proposal to open up up to 50% of the budget, to allow broadcasters to always act as co-producer. Does the Secretary of State acknowledge that his proposal, which he is now explaining, does not correspond to the letter and spirit of this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u246	I believe that this proposal is entirely in line with the letter and spirit of this motion. These terms are exactly reflected in the bill. The broadcasters are always co-producer, even if third parties are attracted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u247	The Secretary of State just said this. If the NPO can't find a broadcaster that wants to take on the outside producer's programme, it can go to the task broadcasting. It says in the motion that broadcasters should always act as co-producer. First of all, it goes through the NPO. He's already not a network. The NPO doesn't have a broadcast license. That means that the Secretary of State is already going around the motion. Secondly, the Secretary of State says that it can also be done in a different way if a broadcaster does not want to have it. Does the Secretary of State acknowledge that the motion is not being properly carried out? I'm the author. I know what I mean by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u248	When I look at the letter of the motion, I think we are fully implementing it. It says "programs." We have the traditional broadcasting organizations, but we also have two broadcasting organizations. They're broadcasters, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u249	At the very least, the Secretary of State has given the impression that he wants to go beyond what is now there. That's fine. We live in a free country. At the same time, it has brought about a lot in Hilversum. It changes the balance of power between the NPO and different broadcasters. We come from a situation where it was only about the broadcasters. So there's something going on. There really is a shift. There is also a difference of opinion or vision with regard to broadcasting. If the Secretary of State looks forward, does he think that at the moment when the dust is down, he can say: after all the changes and everything that it has brought about, do I have peace with the consensus that seems to have been found in Hilversum and do I really think I should join in?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u250	I'm very in favour of consensus. Let me give you another example. As far as the regional plans are concerned, I have discussed them extensively with the parties, because I can see that making changes is much faster if everyone is on the same page. I also think it is very good that there should be consensus in Hilversum on how to open up a more open order, but that should not lead to a woolly compromise. When I read the concession policy plan, I am not talking about the letter that then got over it again. I understand very well that the Culture Council and also the outside producers said: what are we supposed to do with this? They said: we are becoming a toy ball because of the uncertainties that have apparently arisen in reaching consensus and compromise. We, as politicians, must therefore say that we did not mean that. That's what I meant when I said this is contrary to the intentions of this bill. The intention of this proposal is precisely to set out very clear frameworks, which are still absolutely a task and, in my view, a very heavy role for broadcasters, but also with opportunities for outside producers to really get involved in this innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u251	I have outlined in my contribution that the Christian Union really comes from the tradition of broadcasting associations that are carriers of pluralism. However, we have taken this approach with an open mind. The pluralism can also be shaped in a different way, for example through those outside producers. At the same time, it has put pressure on relations. The broadcasters and the NPO are now saying together that they are out, that they can work with this and that they can give hands and feet to this in good peace and in good cooperation. Do I understand correctly that the Secretary of State says that he is now asking the NPO and the broadcasters to work this out? Is that where the ball is now? Is he saying that he attaches great importance to the consensus that has been achieved there and is being further developed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u252	Yes, if there is consensus, I would be very happy to be involved and to follow that. However, we need consensus and clarity and I do not think that the concession policy plan excels in clarity. In fact, I find it shrouded in mists. I'm not the only one who thinks so. The Culture Council is also very critical of this. I think it's described a little tighter in the letter. On that basis, I think: it is now beginning to become clear. I would like to build on that. I would very much like there to be consensus on how to work, but I would like outside products to say: this is a way of working in which there really are real opportunities for parties to participate. In my view, this is simply a question of clarity, as I have just outlined in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u253	In any case, I think that is more clear than "the violation of the law" that the Secretary of State wrote earlier. However, as far as I am concerned, there are too many brackets. There are too many requests for a carte blanche and I am not prepared to give them. We, as a Chamber, will determine what politics thinks of it in this debate and later on in the votes. This is a very important point. Is the Secretary of State now saying that the concession policy plan as described in the letter we received last week is the starting point when further agreements are made? Am I getting that right or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u254	It's two different things. There's a concession policy plan and there's the letter. I am critical of the concession policy plan, but I voted in favour of the letter. If that is the translation and the basis for further elaboration of the concession policy plan, I think that is an excellent starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u255	I don't want to go into semantics with the Secretary of State. He can find the concession policy plan a huge step. The letter is an explanation of what is meant in that plan. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State that what is in this letter is leading the further performance agreements that are being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u256	It is about the letter and not about the concession policy plan. I'm fine with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u257	This symbolizes the charade we're performing right now. I'm serious. I really don't think this is possible. We have here a law in which there is a lot of uncertainty, which is also emphasised by various organisations in their assessment, including by the Council of State. Then there are a number of parties that say: you know, we want the letter to lead. This means that not the law is leading, that law with all those open ends, but that the broadcasting bosses in Hilversum can decide together how this law is to be implemented. The Secretary of State will allow that. Why would he do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u258	Everything has to fit within the law. The law must then be worked out. I do not consider the concession policy plan to be a good development of the law. Mr Heerma and Mr Segers then attacked. They attach great importance to consensus and joint solutions. I've been critical of that. Next, a reaction came from the NPO. There really is something different in that than in the concession policy plan. I think that is a good basis for continuing on that. That letter says that the NPO makes substantive agreements. The broadcaster can then sign in with a proposal. Calls may subsequently adapt the content and financial frameworks provisionally established in order to further develop the proposal, subject to the agreement of the NPO. This means that if an external producer starts working with a broadcaster and wants to change the agreed frameworks, you will not wait until the end and in the meantime have a lot of work to do. That would be the case if I read the concession policy plan in the first place, but you go back to the NPO immediately to put it on the table. I'm confident that parties will just come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u259	So we have a law in which there is a very vague part. The piece on the open order is by far the worst part of the law. I didn't like the piece on entertainment because of the duality and the space it offers to leave everything the same. However, this piece is even worse, even vaguer, even more open. There's more raffle edges on it. It's really bad. So what do we do now? The law is so open that, under pressure from CDA and ChristianUnion, we say: you know, we want this letter, which was sent just as quickly on Friday, to lead. But those parties whispered after it, because then we can also support this law. In doing so, the Secretary of State also gives away the last piece that was left. He's laughing now, but he knows it's true. I'm asking for an honest response from the Secretary of State. He is simply dictated by the broadcasters, the NPO, the Christian Union and the CDA. They now decide how to open the order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u260	Mr Verhoeven plays a beautiful theatre here. The law and the proposal are very clear. It describes the need for the NPO to make clear agreements with outside producers. Frameworks must be set for the format, for the rights, for the price paid. If a broadcaster then starts doing so, it has to comply with those frameworks. I think this should also be clear. It may happen that in the future an outside producer and a broadcaster say: yes, we still want to adapt those agreements with the NPO, because that will make a programme better. It would be crazy not to go into that. You only have to go back to the NPO to get permission for this because the NPO is the body that determines the frameworks. That's actually the route I read back in this letter. The letter sent by the NPO is a good drafting of the bill and I would like them to work it out further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u261	Mr Heerma has another question and then I will give the Secretary of State the opportunity to conclude this block. Then we're gonna do the cubes first and then we're gonna do the questions. We're at block two and we've got six.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u262	This was a central point of my input. Thank you for this space. The textexegesis of the difference between the letter and the concession policy plan should be repeated, because I see a lot of cut, copy and fit. I would like to make a positive start on what the Secretary of State says, but when you talk about the relationship between broadcasting and NPO, it is clear that these are indeed important points for the Christian Union and the CDA. If there are provisional frameworks and a member broadcasting on the basis of all kinds of consultations says that there is something very important about the format that they want to adapt the frameworks, then an NPO must come from strong homes to say that this is not important. In my term, I spoke extensively about the importance of involving broadcasters' members. Such elements, i.e. broadcasting members who bring this up on the basis of membership consultations, are part of the discussion on the frameworks, are they not? That's still the core of our order, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u263	It's possible. Of course, there may be very good arguments and then you go back to the NPO. If the NPO thinks this is a good story, the frameworks can be adjusted. But it may also be that there is a good idea of an outside producer who thinks he can work with the agreements of the NPO, a broadcaster wants to do something with it and then want to make something of it that was not meant to be and which was not the idea of that outside producer either. Then I think it is very good that all these parties should go back to the NPO, because the NPO can at least say that it was not the agreement and therefore stick to its original frameworks. It's both possible. What I think is important is that there is ultimately one party that establishes the frameworks, that this is the NPO and that outside producers or broadcasting organisations always have to go back to the NPO immediately if they want to change those frameworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u264	The fact remains that broadcasters are always co-producer and responsible for what they broadcast. Once again, if, in such a discussion, a broadcaster can rely on membership consultations, those members who are still at the heart of this system, can it not be decisive for the NPO to take account of the need to adapt frameworks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u265	I've already indicated that this is possible, but it could work out differently. As far as I am concerned, we should not find ourselves in a situation where, as the members of a broadcasting organisation say, that always and automatically leads to the adaptation of those frameworks. We aim in this law that the NPO makes agreements on this. The NPO is not deaf or blind to good arguments if there are better ideas. Mr Rutte asked whether intellectual property should be surrendered. The co-production by broadcasters together with an external party is about the form and content of the media offer and is regulated in Article 2.88. Rights and intellectual property are part of the negotiations between the external parties, broadcasters and possibly the NPO. So it all depends on how they make these agreements. Let me be clear: if the NPO makes agreements on rights and intellectual property, they cannot be changed by a broadcaster. Mr Verhoeven continued to ask about the rights entity and its coordination. The aim of the new rights entity is to obtain a complete overview of all available rights. In addition, new agreements are being made between the NPO, broadcasters and the rights entity on the rights to be acquired, so that the programmes become available on linear TV and Broadcast Missed. Now the agreements on these rights are so different that some programs can be seen for a very long time on Broadcast Missed, while others can be seen for a very short time, so the viewer doesn't know where he is going. Mr Grashoff and Mr Segers asked whether there was a conflict in the context of openness and professionalism for outside producers, for example. I don't see that. There is no appeal or objection for outside producers. There is a choice of an outside producer to make a programme. Those aren't administrative decisions. This is no different than today; broadcasters now also opt for outside producers. Mr Segers asked how to prevent legal interference in relation to outside producers and whether the Media Commissioner could not be some kind of referee. In my story on the development of openness by the NPO, I have already indicated that the NPO will specifically ask for external access to be further developed in a clear procedure, which is of course workable for the NPO itself, but also for broadcasters and external producers. If you do that in a good way, you'll avoid a lot of twitching. I do not see any necessary role for the Commissioner in this. In addition, the NPO has its own supervisory authority, the Supervisory Board, which should monitor the importance of both the NPO and the public service broadcasting as a whole. The third block is about more commonality. I think I can be a little shorter about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u266	I said that the Commissioner in contact with the external producers could be the place for any complaints. That's how we keep us from getting in court every time. Isn't that a very logical place? The Secretary of State actually says that the Supervisory Board is that place. So is that where outside producers can go with their complaints? Seems like an even weirder place to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u267	I don't know if that's a weirder place. When it comes to opening the order and if the NPO would not carry out its tasks properly, it is quite logical that the Supervisory Board should monitor it, and supervise the management of the NPO. He is then aware of this and could intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u268	Remote surveillance shall take place. This has become far more remote in the governance of organisations in recent years. Because of the monitoring of the day-to-day situation and of the contact that will hopefully arise with those outside producers and with other parties, isn't the Supervisory Board a very strange place to go with your complaints? And that while we have a commissioner in which people with a sense of business can check those cases. I think that's a much more logical place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u269	In my opinion, complaints are not subject to review on the basis of legality. That's what the commissioner's for. That checks whether the public service broadcaster, the NPO, is implementing the Media Act. The NPO can also implement the Media Act by rejecting outside producers. It is therefore very difficult for the Commissioner to give an opinion on this. The Supervisory Board is much closer to that. I do not suspect that there will be so many complaints. The NPO will have to make clear agreements and that creates immediate expectations. It may happen once that someone with a programme idea is rejected because the NPO finds the program of a broadcaster or another outside producer more interesting and better. I do not know if the Commissioner is the appropriate place. If this were to happen very frequently, something would really be wrong inside the NPO. I find it much more logical if the Supervisory Board looks closely at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u270	You're going to block three.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u271	I'm going to block three. Something has already been said about the importance of more unity, also to gain more power in Hilversum and to programme more from commonality. In doing so, the NPO makes a move from a kind of coordination body to more of a steering body. The influence of the NPO will increase. This bill allows for the introduction of genre coordinators. They can play an important role and I therefore regret that the NPO only wants to start with one genre coordinator in the concession policy plan. I do not think that is ambitious. That's why I'm gonna ask the NPO to work this out better. I want to do this in a way that does not lead to additional bureaucracy. I think it is important to clarify the relationship between genre coordinators and net coordinators. The NPO should indicate how unnecessary bureaucracy can be avoided. Mr Verhoeven had asked a question about this. In addition, I think it is important that the genre coordinator is not some kind of experiment and that we look at how we do it. It has to be a serious function. Starting with just one genre coordinator does not in my view inspire confidence. It also makes it very difficult to come up with an integrated vision for all genres within public broadcasting. In short, I would like to have more clarity about the period when all other genres can count on a genre coordinator. Questions have been asked about the direction of efficiency. I think it is important for public service broadcasting to take a critical look at its use of public funds. I will come back to this in a little more detail in the next block when it comes to transparency. This efficiency and efficiency are important at a time when the belt is being cited. That is why I propose in the legislative proposal to make the NPO responsible for the efficient use of public funds throughout public service broadcasting. There's a lot of ways to do that. When assessing programme proposals, the NPO can explicitly assess how these proposals contribute to an effective scheme. The NPO may also make arrangements for broadcasters to promote the efficiency of their programmes. Mr Segers asked whether the Commissioner could still play a role in this. Effectiveness is something else than legality. Efficiency is much more related to internal considerations. As far as I am concerned, the Commissioner is not well equipped to carry out this task. The monitoring of the effectiveness of the NPO and public service broadcasting as a whole is much more a task for the Supervisory Board. The role of broadcasters has been called for. I would like to stress once again that the great steering of the NPO has no effect on the organisation of traditional broadcasters. More commonality and more guidance mean that broadcasters need to be more committed to the interests of all public service broadcasting. In the end, however, they also have their own roots in society and have contact with their members. This makes traditional broadcasting associations so strong and unique. Those too are just preserved in this order. Mr Heerma challenged me a little bit. He asked me what I thought of the members' activities. I see them in different places. I find the discussion evenings organised by Opposite Light very interesting. I myself was allowed to be present at such an evening in Amsterdam. It was a documentary on the future of education and the challenges facing education. A week later, 200 people gathered in a theatre in Amsterdam to talk about it. It is interesting how a connection is made between traditional television and the more physical and social networks where people come together and then talk about it. I find this interesting in addition to the traditional Assembly of Members and the visits of Members to programmes. I am also thinking of more enjoyable meetings, such as the big event MAX Proms, which has recently been organised, specifically for its members.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u272	I see that Mr Segers wants to interrupt, but we are waiting to interrupt until this block is completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u273	I would just like to point out that Members' broadcasters remain important. That's what brought me to the end of this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u274	I saw Mr Segers walking forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u275	In fact, this block already covered the assessment of the amendment I tabled together with Mr Heerma on the role of the Commissioner in monitoring transparency. The Secretary of State said that he does not think that the task of checking efficiency is really the responsibility of the Commissioner. It is not, and that is not what we intend to do with this amendment. This amendment concerns the question of whether the NPO's effectiveness test is carried out in accordance with the rules of the NPO. That's the remote control. As regards this role, both the NPO and the broadcasters say: it seems to us to be very good as the Commissioner who takes on the role. We all want transparency; that, and not efficiency testing, is the role of the Commissioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u276	For the record, this is the amendment on item No. 16.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u277	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u278	At the end of my speech, I would like to return to all the amendments, and I would like to deal with them in more detail. Perhaps the debate on transparency will also bring back a number of elements. In block four we talk about checks-and-balances. Two things jump out. The first concerns the Supervisory Board and the Governing Board of the NPO. An important measure we are taking to improve checks-and-balances is the broadening of the supervisory board's task. The monitoring will focus on the performance of the public media mission rather than looking only narrowly at the NPO. This ensures that the Supervisory Board acts not only on the interests of the NPO organisation, but on the interests of the whole. In doing so, the Board has a supervisory role: to check whether diversity and pluralism are guaranteed. Mr Segers spoke about this. Mr Grashoff asked how the Supervisory Board could be better equipped to carry out this broader task. One of the things we have done with this bill is to increase the maximum number of members of the Supervisory Board. If the tasks are widened, you may also need more people with more different backgrounds in your supervisory board. The information position of the Supervisory Board is also strengthened. For example, this legislative proposal allows a public inquiry to be asked to check whether what makes public service broadcasting is recognised by the public and appeals to the public. The procedure for the appointment of the Supervisory Board shall be laid down in the law in order to ensure independence. The situation now arises that the second and last term of appointment of the entire current Supervisory Board expires on 1 January 2016. This is a result of the transitional provisions of previous legislative amendments. Mr Heerma asked whether there was anything to be done about this, because it would be a pity if nothing was done about the knowledge of the current Supervisory Board. In order to ensure continuity, I have considered extending slightly the term of office of some members of the current Supervisory Board by means of a transitional measure. In the end, I did not do that, because, if you counted, the members concerned would be on the Supervisory Board for a considerable period of more than ten years. I do not think that is entirely desirable either. Here's what I'm suggesting. On the one hand, I would like to see whether the chairman of the current Supervisory Board could still be available for the new Supervisory Board in some sort of advisory role. On the other hand, I want to ensure, more sustainable for the future, that we do not get into the situation of the whole Supervisory Board being renewed. I will ask the new Supervisory Board to propose a schedule of resignations so that this will be more gradual in the future. Questions have been asked about the appointment of the Supervisory Board and the Governing Board of the NPO. The Christian Union and the Labour Party have asked for a change in the manner of appointment of the Board of Directors. I am not in favour of that. This has to do with the system of responsibility of the Minister of Education for public service broadcasting. Then I think it is logical that the Minister should have confidence in the members of the board of directors. The independent functioning of the Management Board is ensured because it is appointed, suspended or dismissed by the Supervisory Board, and not by the Minister. The role of the Minister is to agree to the decision of the Supervisory Board. Mr Mohandis noted that at universities and colleges, the Board of Governors is set up by the Supervisory Board. However, there is a big difference with universities and colleges: the NPO is also a ZBO, an independent administrative body. This means that there is another relationship of responsibility between the ruler and the Zbo. That would be a first argument. The second argument is as follows. If we look at other bodies that we all hope will be independent of, for example, the Supreme Court, then we also see that there are ultimately judges appointed, in this case by the Cabinet. So one doesn't have to rule out the other. There may indeed be appointments that are sealed by individual directors or the cabinet without any question of independence. I also believe that this independence of public service broadcasting is guaranteed by both the Constitution and the Media Act. For example, the Minister has no competence in decisions taken by the Governing Board on the performance of his or her duties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u279	Mr Mohandis, we are also waiting for the block to be completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u280	Mr Klein proposed that the members of the Supervisory Board and the Management Board should be appointed by the panel of broadcasters. This is precisely at odds with the pursuit of a recognizable and unambiguous strategy from the NPO as a central steering and cooperation body. The common interest of public service broadcasting as a whole must be paramount. It would really be a step backwards in time if each broadcaster could, so to speak, appoint its own director or its own member of the Supervisory Board. The second major issue raised concerns the transparency of the costs of programming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u281	Then I suggest that we do the questions about the appointments first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u282	Very briefly. I do not think we are going to agree entirely, because this is a matter of principle. If the Secretary of State makes a proposal in which the NPO gets more say, I simply do not think it is appropriate that there should also be a direct approval of a nomination from the Supervisory Board, no matter how good the guarantees in the law are. That's what the motion I'm about to table is about. I'd like to hear what possibilities the Secretary of State sees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u283	I'm not in favour of it. We have included in the coalition agreement precisely the intention to see if we cannot achieve a more equal management of ZBOs. The NPO isn't just any Zbo. But we do have discussions about that. We are also discussing in the Council of Ministers how to do this in a good and sensible way. Mr Blok talks about the total service and about the framework law on health and safety. I imagine we'll see how we shape this in a good way. But to say now, where the Minister formally has the system responsibility for the functioning of a Zbo, that the Minister can no longer agree to appointing directors, I think that is a really big step that Mr Mohandis is taking. I do not know whether that is consistent throughout the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u284	That's debatable. Let me stress, however, that I am pleased that the Secretary of State offers this opening. I also underline what the Secretary of State says about whether the NPO is just a zbo. There's gonna be a stronger supervisory board. The board of directors will be given a more central role in the order. Therefore, the fact that the NPO is not just a zbo is precisely why I think that the political distance from the appointments should be left to the supervisory board. That model is similar to higher education. That's the comparison I made. Of course, there is a difference in status. But I'm not going along with the story that the NPO is a regular Zbo. Otherwise, I would not have made this proposal with Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u285	I agree with Mr Mohandis that the NPO is no ordinary Zbo. But the NPO isn't a college or a college either. That's what makes it a little different in the system. Formally-legally, the department, the executive responsible for OCW, also has a responsibility for this organisation. I think it is a big turn to stop having the opportunity to agree to the appointment of the board of this organisation. I can see the tension that's on. I would also point out that we have discussions about this in the cabinet. That is one of the reasons why I am currently looking at this with my colleague Mr Blok and having it under investigation. However, I think that it is too far-reaching to regulate this now with a stroke of pens in this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u286	My point is not so much about the appointment structure as about governance. Logically, given its role, the Supervisory Board is putting itself in a social debate. We do not want to have the influence of politics on this with each other. However, there will have to be something attracted to public opinion and a social debate. The law only provides for this guarantee in abstract terms. This means that I do not yet see that there is a proper and sufficient guarantee in the law that the supervisory board is interested in public opinion. I do not yet see enough in the law to ensure that the Council is consciously in a discussion with society as to whether pluralism and diversity are sufficient. I would like a response from the Secretary of State, in particular to look for ways of strengthening this in the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u287	We have tried to do so by making the Supervisory Board not only responsible for the supervision of the NPO as an organisation, i.e. purely financial, management and so on, but also by giving the Supervisory Board of the NPO responsibility for the whole system of public service broadcasting. As a supervisory authority, he will be formally responsible for a number of tasks set out in this bill, for example for the task of ensuring diversity and pluralism. This will be a legal task for the new Supervisory Board. In order to carry out this task properly, it is necessary for this council to look outside: what does public opinion think and what do people think of the programming of public service broadcasting as a whole? That is one of the reasons why we make it possible, for example, to conduct public research. For example, the Supervisory Board can also do so with new forms, such as surveys and public investigations. This is separate from how traditional member organisations do this at, for example, member meetings. So I would like to say to Mr Grashoff that I have the impression that it has been widened and secured.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u288	If a group in society does not now feel heard, seen and known in the public broadcasting system, where should that group go and how can that group take a position?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u289	I'd start at the beginning. If there are ideas for good programs, you can go directly to the NPO to see if you can create a nice program. But let me take it a step further. You don't make programs, but you still feel that there isn't enough attention for a particular genre, a certain kind of television or a certain kind of music. Well, then it makes sense for you to mention that to the board of directors for once. That is the day-to-day administration of public service broadcasting. If he doesn't comply, you can always go to the supervisor. That's the line that could be walked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u290	The Secretary of State recalled that I might have made the proposal that the appointment would take place from the College of Broadarms. However, that is absolutely not the case, because that would be an old-fashioned thought that you should certainly keep away from as a free-minded politician. What matters is this. The role of the Supervisory Board is now broadening. It should therefore be more independent in the appointment procedure. The comparison that is made between the NPO and directors of the board of directors and the Supreme Court is, of course, not valid at all. It's not just about appointments, it's about dismissal. My question is very specific: how can we ensure that independence can be strengthened when the Supervisory Board is appointed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u291	I have put forward a proposal for this in this draft law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u292	In this proposal, the Secretary of State or the Minister as system manager finally makes the appointment. Wouldn't it be much better to arrange it more independently, as with trust committees in municipalities, for example? Then an appointment committee makes a binding nomination, after which a proper balance can be made within the entire appointment procedure for the Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u293	The bill makes a proposal to work with an appointment committee. He is not making a binding nomination, but he is making a presentation. I don't think it's so crazy that we're looking at that seriously. I do not see any immediate reason to depart from that. At the same time, you can also ask yourself how democratic that is, because then who is on the nomination committee? I also welcome the fact that, in the case of an important institution such as public service broadcasting, there is ultimately a formal decision from the cabinet to appoint the Supervisory Board. I also think it is important that the appointment or resignation of the governing board requires the consent of the executive. I come to the subject of transparency. In my view, public service broadcasting must make choices and explain them better. I also see a move towards greater transparency, even in the concession policy plan. I asked for a number of steps to be taken. The debate is now on whether we think that is enough. I asked the NPO to ensure transparency at the level of programmes. Now it is stuck with transparency at the level of the genres. I think that is what the debate is about. When I talk about transparency, I say that politics is not supposed to debate individual programme choices or decide exactly what an efficient use of public money means. This does not fit in with the independent nature of broadcasting and its constitutional protection. The other way around, I do not have the impression that there is no discussion at all at the moment, when transparency is still very poor. I would like to draw attention to the discussions we have had recently on the use of resources. Whether it's about football rights or the King's song; even without transparency you have those discussions. In fact, there are regular discussions about other editorial considerations, which have nothing to do with money at all. We regularly get written questions, in the vein of; did you not also think that last week there were too many politicians from the Labour Party at the table at Pauw? That was a question from Mr Bosma. Let me mention another example in which it was also about an individual programme title and an editorial choice: do you not think that Dr. Corrie is going too far and is not meant for our children? I would just like to point out that there are also regular discussions from Parliament and wider society about programmes. I do not think they are so much related to greater transparency. I believe that public service broadcasting could provide an insight into the costs by programme, and I believe that this should be done. The public can then gain insight into public spending. I think that is a point of principle. When it comes to spending on taxpayers' money, we all have to have nothing to hide. Let us be as transparent and open about it as possible. In fact, I believe that secrecy about costs incurred will only lead to more discussion. We have had this a number of times in recent years. Look at the King's Song and how long it lasted, what a string that was. If this had been completely open before the summer, the discussion would have been over a long time ago. In this sense, transparency about costs can also contribute to public confidence. In addition, transparency over costs raises awareness among public service broadcasters that public money is being used. More awareness ensures that money is handled carefully and soberly. There too, openness has an important role to play. Finally. We have just talked about the openness of the order. I can well imagine that it is also important for the functioning of the openness of the system that external producers should be able to see a little bit of what a programme has cost. OTP also wears this in his letter. We can then have a discussion in which external producers say: 'I can perhaps make such a programme twice as beautiful for that money.' That's interesting and enhances the creative competition. I did not count exactly, but I believe that the situation in this Chamber at the moment is such that there is a majority emerging that considers transparency to be sufficient at genre level. We are not taking an advance on how it should be arranged in this legislative proposal, but we are only putting a stop to it at a later date. I would like to have a little more clarity from your Chamber about this transparency at genre level. If there is one, how am I supposed to answer questions such as those asked by Mr Verhoeven about the King's Song next time? I'll get the questions and quote them out. How high was the remuneration received by the NOS and NPO Radio 2 for the promotion of the King's Song? Is it true that the NPO received almost 2 million euros from the Foundation National Committee Inauguration for all events surrounding the inauguration? If we say that there is a need to be reported at genre level, then next time I can only answer such a question with: sorry, I can't or won't tell you. Or with: the total contribution for culture I assume that the King's song would be included has been x million. Then you have no answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u294	You just said "finally," so I had the feeling you were finishing this piece. A few of your remarks are seen by Mr Verhoeven as enticement to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u295	The Secretary of State has already caused a lot of confusion today, but he himself is now confused. He can't tell the difference between a program and a song anymore. A king's song is something quite different from a program title. The Secretary of State is acting like I wouldn't want any more answers to these kinds of questions. I said two things very clearly: firstly, that I do not need receipts from the program and that I just want to know the cost per genre. I did say that in such a way. Secondly, I said that contracts with private parties should be available, as far as I am concerned, through the Commissioner. If the Secretary of State then says that he can no longer answer the questions, then my first question is: has he answered my parliamentary questions up to the level I have asked? Or is the minister still unclear?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u296	I sent the answers to those questions to the Chamber yesterday. It's had quite a few feet in the earth to get that over the table. In my opinion, all these weeks and months of waiting has not been good for confidence in public service broadcasting. In fact, there are still a lot of questions about what exactly is going on. It seems very sensible to me that the NPO should open up things so that all these things are out of the world. If you have nothing to hide, I believe the NPO has nothing to hide in the end. Just answer those questions. Transparency has a very important function. When we say that in future we will only be satisfied with transparency at the level of genres, I note that this is far below that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u297	The Secretary of State understands what I mean. I have made it clear that these are private contracts, so a contract like between Fox and the NIS that I have asked a lot of questions about. Now we have the situation with the King's Song and in the future we may be playing any contracts with table guests. These contracts are only interesting when they threaten to affect journalistic independence. I have given examples of cases where I thought this was the case. That's quite different from asking for receipts per program. Then Mr Segers knocks on the door again and starts again about Dr Corrie. I'd like to avoid that. Does the Secretary of State now have the information that is needed to clarify the King's song? Or would he like to know much more in order to give the Chamber clarity? If that's the latter, what does he do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u298	I now have the information to answer those questions properly. That's what I did. If he has any additional questions, I'd be happy to hear them. I'd like to spark this discussion for the following reason. Whether you ask the NPO to report at genre level or programme level, I feel it is my duty to ensure that the Chamber is properly informed. We have discussed this a number of times over the past year, for example in the King's Song, but also in the debate on the television rights of the Honorary Division. The provision of information to the Chamber was hampered. I'd like to think about a way to better implement that. I don't want us to be fooling around with the NPO when these kinds of questions about the King's Song come on the table or if there are any follow-up questions left. It may also be that the Chamber is asking for a contract because there are complaints from commercial broadcasters, for example about the fact that the NIS with taxpayers' money offers far too much on the rights for the Honorary Division. I would like to prevent us from getting into a huge mess, and then there are secret contracts that we can only keep confidential in the Chamber so that we cannot debate them openly. If, in addition to reporting at genre level, we do not come up with anything to provide information to the Chamber, next time the Chamber should not reproach me when I say: sorry, but you will not get an answer to your questions. If the Chamber wants the next step, I'll have to take it with the NPO. I think it's okay that the default option is the standard reporting at genre level. However, if Parliament wants to know exactly what is going on, we must be able to expect the NPO to give it full transparency. I would also like to discuss with the NPO how to create a slightly more equal information position towards external parties. If you only look at the genres, that of course doesn't say anything about what a program has cost, while it would be good to offer that insight to eventually increase the creative competition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u299	I would ask Members, as well as the Secretary of State, to restrict themselves somewhat in the questions and answers. With permission, but we're repeating a few things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u300	The last ten minutes' discussion between the Secretary of State and Mr Verhoeven is the perfect illustration of why the amendment in part No. 16 has been submitted. We want more transparency, but we do not want to check receipts at political level and to check whether there has been a little overpaid somewhere. The amendment in part No. 16 is a perfect illustration of this. We are looking for a way to monitor closely and to be able to ask all the critical questions we have. Mr Verhoeven asks questions about the song. I would never do that myself, but he can do that. In the end, the questions come to the Secretary of State, who then has an address, the Commissioner, where they look at the agreements that have been made: are they correct? Are they knocking? We can ask all the questions we have, and there is a perfect address for the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u301	The Secretary of State will give an opinion on the amendment as a whole in a moment. You have now made a warm plea for this. Would you like to say something about that now, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u302	Again, the Commissariat is really looking at legality. Many of the issues we are discussing today are not about legality. They are about getting insight and about agreements made, for example with songwriters, who claim not to have received compensation, while the NPO indicates that they have been paid for this. If the NPO has paid it within the framework of the law, that question will not be resolved. If Mr Segers is satisfied with that, I am fine with that, but I see that another part of the Chamber says it wants to know more precisely how that went. The same applies, for example, to rights of honour. There's a question of legitimacy to it. By the way, there was something going on with that too. The Commissariat has also intervened in this regard. The amount of the sums and what has been paid for them is not a question of legality. This is very often a question of efficiency, and the Commissioner cannot check on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u303	What the Commissioner can do is to look at the efficiency criteria that the NPO has and to put them in addition to the concrete programme and the amounts paid. Is what happened to the criteria set out by the NPO? The Commission does not itself assess the effectiveness, but considers whether the NPO has properly applied the criteria. This is a form of supervision that is more common. It is a role that the Commissioner is more often playing, quite legitimate. I would just like to point out once again that the broadcasters and the NPO can and would like to get out of the way with this. This helps us to avoid a very uncomfortable discussion that we are having here. It was indeed a warm plea and I shall now put a line on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u304	It's kind of how you read the amendment. The amendment provides for a task to be added to the Commissioner's remit: to monitor the process arrangements and the criteria set out by the NPO Governing Board in order to achieve efficiency. The Commissioner shall monitor only the process and not the effectiveness of the NPO itself. If you ask, you ask the Commissioner if the NPO is implementing the law, and there is a check for effectiveness in it, among other things. It could be. I don't know if that's a solution to many of the questions that live here, for example about such a king's song and about the rights of honor. If I can explain it that way and not as a check on efficiency, I can go a long way with it. I would even like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. However, it is not a solution to the issue we are discussing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u305	We will have a moment to come back to that later, because we will be passing through all the amendments. I didn't see Mr. Bosma, nor did I. We're moving on to the next block. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u306	If everyone feels like I've answered all the questions about transparency and checks-and-balances, I'll move on to the next block. A number of questions have been asked about the region. We see the same challenges in the region as in the case of national public service broadcasting: declining coverage, ageing public and a vulnerable financial position. I am pleased to hear that there is a great deal of support in the Chamber for the agreements we have made with ROOS to move towards one regional public service broadcaster, with independent editors within it at provincial level. The legislative proposal before us today marks a first step towards the new regional public media company. It's a small step, by the way. I will come up with a new bill next year in which I will continue to work on this along the contours of the letter as I have sent it. I will answer many of the questions that have been asked in writing. We will then be able to discuss this in greater detail in the legislative consultation. However, I would like to take a few things out of it, because I feel that they are important to the Chamber. The first concerns a specific element which is contained in this law, namely the duration of the concession period. Mr Mohandis asked why it is now set to four years. This is to ensure that the concession period of regional broadcasting is aligned with that of national broadcasting. That makes it better for the future. If you join together in the new concession period, you can make good agreements on the cooperation between national and regional. Regional and national broadcasting must cooperate more closely. As far as I'm concerned, it's a one-time thing. After that, the concession can always be renewed for 10 years. Another question that has been asked is whether there is anything left to do about the 17 million cuts that the region stands for. These cuts have already been made and are already in the budget. If Mr Grashoff wants to reverse that, he will have to look for cover. I don't think it's necessary either. We ask many sectors in the Netherlands to contribute to the great financial task we are facing. The cuts in national public service broadcasting are really a lot bigger than the cuts in regional broadcasting. In the plans of the regional broadcasters, I see that they are now able to process the 17 million in such a way that this is not at the expense of programming, but comes as much as possible from better cooperation and the sharing of all kinds of services.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u307	Mr Grashoff, I would like to wait here too until the block is finished to allow interruptions. If that's the case, we'll hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u308	A number of questions have been asked about Friesland. I take that point very seriously. I would also like, as I say to Mr Heerma, to talk to the BZK and the province to see how we can guarantee this specifically. He also mentioned money that comes into the equation. Extra money is already available for Omrop Frieslân. As far as I am concerned, that will remain the same in the future. We need to see how we can make a good link. The question is, how are we gonna get a spot when we go to that new RPO? We have also been asked whether we can work with regional broadcasters per province. That would be my proposal, especially for this coming concession period. Let me also make it clear that, as far as I am concerned, in a concession period, the person applying for the concession can make a presentation on how he intends to do so. That is one reason why I am not immediately in favour of regulating this in a law. This means that, if such a concession is to be amended, you should immediately change the whole law again, while we do not know what it will look like in five years' time. I can only imagine that this is a movement that you can already see, with the local broadcasters, that a little more is being looked at regional broadcasting, like in the Achterhoek. That is, of course, a defined area. You could also say that you need to sit more on that level. If you set that up in the law, you'll make it very difficult to be flexible in that. So I'd rather do that by arrangement. Mr Van Dijk had a nice but wild plan to strengthen regional journalism and to reverse the same austerity. I do not agree with the proposal to give an additional 5 million to regional broadcasters. The Journalism Incentive Fund has just started a scheme to strengthen regional journalism. About 1.8 million will be available for this in the next four years. I propose that we first look at what is going to be the outcome of this arrangement. I also have an objection to the coverage mentioned by Mr Van Dijk, including that extra 10 million. I'm not talking about the way the Empire organizes its information. Nor do I have the impression that we can just get 10 million away from that. So much for my points on the region. I say again that I have undertaken to do so in writing. However, I would certainly like to give room for it if one of the Members says: I have another important point for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u309	For the record, the legislative consultation will take place on 16 November. Mr Grashoff was the first to be on the interrupting microphone, so he may ask his question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u310	The regional broadcasters, as well as some local broadcasters, are widely appreciated here. We are so far apart that we say: they have an extremely important task. We can see that this task has been incredibly narrow for years. Now there's going to be a bill that, in the end, causes a bundling. My group can support this bundling in itself. In this situation, however, it is logical that we should invest the efficiency gains we can make with this combination in strengthening that already so weak system. That's not a weird question, is it? It is closely linked to this reform of the system, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u311	A lot of sectors have had to tighten their belts. The same applies to broadcasters. National public service broadcasting has received a saving of 250 million. In addition, I add the cuts from two cabinet periods. I do not think it is unreasonable that we should also ask regional broadcasting to contribute to the great financial challenge we face, namely to ensure that the spending of the Empire is somewhat in line with revenue. I see that the contribution we are asking for can be met by efficiency measures. I also note that this measure does not have to be at the expense of the programmes for viewers and listeners.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u312	I can only conclude here that this is an extremely serious matter for my group and that I am extremely unhappy with this answer. I'll do it with it for the moment, but this gives me time to think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u313	In my view, the Secretary of State acknowledges that regional news is not going well and that there is a discrepancy. However, 17 million savings will then be made. The Secretary of State has just said: this cut is not at the expense of programming or the editorial staff. I understand that some 4 million or 5 million out of the 17 million will be at the expense of programming and editing. Does the Secretary of State deny that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u314	I have asked the regional broadcasters to achieve their ultimate efficiency. The vast majority of the profits are in that bundling anyway, but don't pin me on it because it may be that there is still a small tail that ends up with the editors. The vast majority of profits, however, lie in abandoning the idea that there will be thirteen autonomous, separate organisations, thirteen directors, thirteen technical departments, thirteen personnel administrations, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. If you bundle all that together, you can save a very large part of that 17 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u315	The good listener already hears that the Secretary of State actually acknowledges what I just said. So there will also be cutting in the editors. It does not, of course, matter if, on the one hand, it is said that strong regional news is important and, on the other hand, it cuts regional news. Then you need to start looking for solutions. I gave you one. I think it's very realistic. There really are a lot of informers and the Empire can just cut back on that. If the Secretary of State does not think that is a good cover, then he should be fair enough to say: I do not want the quality of the regional news provision to be cut, so I will look for another cover. So the Secretary of State can choose: will he come with me, or is he looking for cover himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u316	We had the whole discussion about the cuts in regional broadcasting a year and a half ago. I understand Mr Grashoff's position very well, because I believe that GroenLinks had great difficulty with it and perhaps voted against it at the time. This has made sure that the 17 million has just been rebooked. With this legislative proposal, we are making it possible for regional broadcasting to block this 17 million in such a way as to minimise the cost of making programmes. In any case, I hope to get the support of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u317	The VVD is a party that tries to use the middle motion at least, otherwise you will get such a motion inflation. I asked a specific question about the possibility of getting someone with attention to the Fries on the Supervisory Board of the RPO. Is there going to be a written answer to that, or can the Secretary of State say that he thinks that is a very good idea? That saves me another motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u318	That's one of the things I think is a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u319	We've arrived at the last block of the Secretary of State. I would like to ask Members whether they can start their second term immediately afterwards. I understand that this is the case. That's what I thought and hoped for. I'll give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u320	Some questions have been asked about the Media Fund and the NPO Fund, given the discontinuation of the Media Fund on 1 January 2017. It is a good thing that, in accordance with the Verhoeven motion, the NPO has earmarked EUR 16.6 million for the media supply that is still being made by the Media Fund. It is mainly about the offer of a special cultural nature such as documentaries and drama series. That must be included in the total funding. At the same time, I think this is a typical thing that fits very well with the public service remit of public service broadcasting. Questions have been asked about advertising. Mr Verhoeven and Mr Grashoff asked for a restriction on advertising on public broadcasting, both on television and online. I don't think that's a good idea. One of the things we agreed on in the coalition agreement is that we want to give some room for public service broadcasting to overcome some of the cuts they see coming towards them with a slightly greater ability to earn their own resources. In the meantime, the NPO implements this policy by making better use of the legally permitted advertising time. It is not a question of broadening the legal framework but of making better use of the space available. Moreover, the NPO has fewer advertising opportunities than the commercial broadcasters. I've said something about that before. Public service broadcasting may use up to 10% of its total broadcasting time for advertising every year. In the commercials, it's twice as high. I would like to avoid any further restriction of public service broadcasting space. Mr Verhoeven asked questions about the governance of the Star. It's too soon for me to say right now that the NPO should be out of the Star's board. I am prepared to examine whether the existing governance structure is still the best, given the changes in the playing field. Mr Verhoeven asked a question about the use of Flash Player. This seems to me typical of what the NPO itself could go about. I do not have the impression that we from The Hague should prescribe what technique is being used. I've been asked if I'd like to comment on the letter from the media valley. That letter came in last week, but I haven't had time to study it in all the hustle and bustle. I'll do it again. I will check with my colleagues from other departments. I understand that the letter also covers other areas of how we deal with it. I do not want to anticipate a formal cabinet response, but I agree with the Chamber that I will give more information about it during the WHO. Mr Bosma asked questions about a Turkish pop channel. I think he was referring to the NPO's intention to launch the new channel NPO FunX Turkpop. This channel has not yet started, but has been requested in the concession policy plan. I have already indicated that I cannot say too much about this whole procedure, but Mr Bosma has, of course, seen the opinion of the Culture Council, which is also very critical of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u321	I am pleased that the Council of Culture is in favour of this, but I am very curious to see what the Secretary of State thinks about it, especially in the light of shouts about integration. Why should we even talk about starting Turkish channels in the Netherlands? Integrating these people is called, just as they need to integrate them. But then we're going to appeal to them again with Dutch taxpayers' money on the fact that they're Turks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u322	Mr Bosma is getting ahead of himself. A formal decision has yet to be taken. Just as much as I have not gone into detail here about any decisions about Radio 6, around NPO Plus and all other channels of offer, I would not like to do so. Mr Heerma spoke about integration and shared values. That really is a task for public service broadcasting. I believe that the Culture Council has, in this light, made critical comments on the intention to launch such a new channel.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u323	So the Secretary of State is against it, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u324	I have said what I want and can say at this point. Finally. Mr Rutte has asked for an extension of the ownership restrictions on radio lots: is the entry into force of this law coming into force? This law doesn't settle that one-two-three. This requires an adaptation of lower regulation. I will see how this can be done in a good way, so that it is also legally strong. Of course, adjustments to the ownership restrictions also include a reasonable price paid by those who have the lots. This could be done in the so-called SEO model. If all this can be done sooner, as of 1 January 2016, I will have no objection to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u325	Thank you for your first-term response. We'll continue with the second term. President. - I call Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u326	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State who answered all the questions in a rather short space of time and also addressed at least the questions put by D66. The Secretary of State started well in his period. He was a Secretary of State with a lot of ambition that had the drive to radically change public service broadcasting. He has also launched ideas for this in a very enthusiastic and bombastic way. However, I have to conclude that he is empty-handed on the two main points and that a lot has been taken out of the law, which has made it a less good law. I say right away that it has not become a harmful law. However, the ambition of the Veronica ship is completely gone and I also think that the Secretary of State himself is not entirely comfortable about the difference between this year and last year. I've said enough about it. It's not a theater on my part. I believe that two major elements of this law have been skillfully demolished, first by the PvdA probably in the discussion between the coalition parties and then by the broadcasters and the NPO. Then that work was gracefully completed by the combination CDA-ChristianUnion on the basis of a letter sent last week. It is actually very sad that a letter determines the way in which a law is to be interpreted. It's probably a unique situation, and I don't think it's a positive situation. Anyway, it's just the way it is. I might be a little tighter in here. I find legislation leading, and the Chamber actually finds a letter leading. Fine, I said it, and that leaves us with this point. Entertainment stays and the order doesn't really open. I think it's seriously two missed opportunities of a plan that was at its best better than it is today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u327	It was a little entrapment when Mr Verhoeven said that the Chamber was following a letter. I believe that we have had this discussion and the conclusion is that something that needs to be properly regulated in the work can be in line with the law. Does Mr Verhoeven share that with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u328	I'm tired too, and I'm almost laughing because I think the situation is silly and because I know that the Secretary of State and the coalition really think differently. However, I believe that the law is fairly open on two important points. My time is running, by the way, but I am not concerned about that. Space has been created in this law to continue to use entertainment in a very broad way, while the Secretary of State has said that certain programmes are no longer part of public service broadcasting. But if you look at the law now, you can see that these programs fit within this law. That is still quite clear, and the Secretary of State has said quite clearly that this is indeed the case. He also said he's going to test. This Secretary of State has done a lot wrong, but he's never lied to me. I'd like to see him make that happen again. So I'll wait and see. At the point of the open order, however, I just dropped out. On that point, I really believe that a letter is now being made leading in the interpretation of a law that has been deliberately kept very open. It's okay, but I don't think it's wise. I would have said that what should be stated in the law should be made clear, make an article and write a statement of explanation, let them join together, and do not let a letter record you in the way a law is to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u329	The agreement on the last point, but also a legislative proposal, must ultimately be put into effect and given a serious opportunity. My interpretation of the letter from the broadcasters and the NPO is that we have also looked at how this can be properly completed. Mr Verhoeven's plea that the NPO's proposal and the broadcasters' proposal do not comply with the law is not entirely correct, because ultimately it is about implementation. Mr Verhoeven knows that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u330	There is a law with many open ends and then there is a concession policy plan and the opinion of the Media Commissioner, which we have not discussed today. The Secretary of State has said that this does not fit in with the law. A letter will then be sent from the broadcasters and the NPO. The Secretary of State says today: that fits in with the law. And then suddenly there's support in the Chamber for the law. Then something has changed within that law, something in the way this law is implemented in practice? And we're just gonna let that happen, aren't we? That's allowed, that's fine, that's allowed, but I just don't think it's a good way to legislate. Why didn't you make that law a little clearer? But that was not possible because of the compromise forces that are present throughout this Chamber. And there's nothing wrong with a compromise, but don't do it through a back door. Mr Heerma mentioned a back door. I find this letter the back door. This opens the front door to allow the NPO and the broadcasters to determine everything in the implementation of this law. Again, that's okay. I'm not happy about it, but it just happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u331	I would like to tell you that this discussion...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u332	But it's very important. It is unique in the Dutch legal history that a letter is leading in a legislative process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u333	Those are your words, but now you are even challenging the President to give some examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u334	It's 2:30 now. The sharpness is off with colleague Verhoeven, because he says several things. He says that not the law is leading, but that appointments or a letter are leading. A letter, an elaboration of performance agreements, cannot be contrary to the law. If Mr Verhoeven then says that that law is too open, or that he would have done otherwise, then that is allowed. He can find that. However, when we talk about the drafting of the law, it is perfectly legitimate to table a motion on it or to make agreements on it. What he ended up with and what he started is bullshit. It's bullshit to say that it wouldn't be the law leading, it would be a letter. That's bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u335	What you and Mr Heerma have said is bullshit. You're both saying it doesn't matter what's in that letter because the law is leading. But at the same time, you base your support for this law on the interpretation of the letter by the Secretary of State. Mr Heerma was just standing at the interrupting microphone and asked: are we going to read the letter like this, is this how the letter should be interpreted? He's basing his support on that. That may be so, but do not pretend that this letter is very crucial in this legislation. That letter determines the interpretation of the law and that is possible because this law has been formulated so openly. That's my criticism. I think it's pretty clear criticism, you know. You can say you disagree, that's fine. But it's not like my way of reasoning wouldn't be consistent. The letter is very important to you. The letter was sent because the Secretary of State did not approve of the concession policy letter. And now it's all right. Fine, but then the letter is more important than the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u336	That last one's bullshit again. Before that, it was clear. We disagree about the drafting of the law, about the introduction of performance agreements. That is where we differ, but that is simply a legitimate political debate. You can't say that law isn't important. No, it's about the elaboration of the law. We differ on that, but that is part of politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u337	Fine, but I will stick to my point: the letter has become extremely important in this legislative process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u338	Mr. Rutte, in one sentence, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u339	Mr President, if others need more senses for that, I would like to do my best, but I will not be able to do it entirely in one sentence. I note that emotions are on the rise, and the essence of the matter is that we have a law, that some of it needs to be filled in and interpreted, and that there is a proposal from the NPO and the broadcasting organizations for how we can do it, which is also in line with Mr Van Dijk's motion, which has been adopted by the Chamber. If we just see that as a way to do this and if the producers say that they can work together with the NPO in that way and give it substance, then this could just work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u340	Anything can work. Once again, however, I find the way in which we adopt the law and find a majority for it, on the basis of the elaboration of a number of people affected by that law, an unclear and not very convenient way of legislation. I've said that four times already. You keep asking the same questions. You seem to want me to agree with you, but we are not agreeing today. I just said a few things very clearly. That's not a law that hurts. It is not a very bad law, only the progress we could have made in this law has been completely nullified by the fact that the broadcasters and the NPO are now saying: we are going to implement the law in the way we wrote in the letter, unlike what we wrote in the concession policy plan. On that basis, the CDA and the Christian Union say: okay, then we can support the law. That's how it happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u341	We wouldn't want it to look like you're sour.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u342	That's right. Because I'm not standing here empty-handed. We've scored some good points. I welcome the State Secretary's replies on Radio 6 and transparency. I will make two motions in a moment. I think it is a good thing to have some clarity about it. I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment to the governance of the Star. Thank you for that. I'm very curious. By the way, I had been almost too rabid in my proposals, but fortunately I also listened to people who told me not to go too fast. I hope that the Secretary of State will have some ambition in the field of genre coordinators. I also thought it was a very cautious proposal. I think regional aid is fantastic. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State if we can do anything with online advertising. That is my only question in this period. Can we look again at whether we can organise the online advertising, which is now in a binding arrangement, in a different way? It's positioned outside our field of vision. There's a lot of stories about it. Looks like there's gonna be a lot more in the next few days if we're not careful. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Then I'll come to Flash Player. I hope the NPO still listens and that he just goes to the NCSC (National Cyber Security Centre) himself. Maybe he can pick it up. My final comment is that I am pleased with the Media Valley. Finally, I shall table two motions for resolutions. I'll read them to you soon. The first motion is about soul and jazz. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the NPO intends to abolish Radio 6 as of 1 January 2016 in its current form and to host Radio 2 as a thematic channel;]] [[whereas in the Netherlands there is a substantial group of listeners for Radio 6 Soul & Jazz and related musical styles and that this channel provides for a question not provided by commercial radio stations;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself to the concession policy plan to ensure that soul and jazz retain a full place on public radio, e.g. Radio 4, with sufficient budget for a daily time slot, including a serious theme channel,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Mohandis. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34264-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u343	My second motion concerns transparency. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that transparency on the use of public service broadcasting resources is currently not sufficiently secure;]] [[Whereas greater transparency may reduce the risk of any waste of public money;]] [[whereas both the Media Commissioner and the Culture Council in its opinion on the 2016-2020 NPO concession policy plan indicate that publishing costs per programme could threaten the core value of public service broadcasting, i.e. independence from commerce and politics, enshrined in the Media Act;]] [[whereas the NPO indicates in the 2016-2020 concession policy plan that it aims at greater transparency and therefore wants to provide insight into the costs per network, channel, genre and broadcasting institution;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the NPO organisation, to commit itself to a standardisation validated by the Media Commissariat for maximum transparency of programming costs at genres level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Mohandis. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34264-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u344	Mr. Chairman. I had expected a flaming speech from Mr Bosma, but he has now left the house. It's no different. For now, you're gonna have to do it with me. Many thanks to the Secretary of State. It is late and he has answered very comprehensively as far as he can answer. There are some things that he really needs to talk about. In that he has indicated a clear direction. For the VVD, the clear commitment and the clear statement by the State Secretary that all NPO programmes should contribute to the core tasks are essential. It is also essential for the VVD to be accountable. Is that the case? In what way? That is where the review framework is leading. It needs to be looked at closely, including by the Media Commissioner. So I think this is great. It's very good. It's very important. This is the essence of the new Media Act. A great deal has already been said about the openness of the system. I'd like to leave it at that. The VVD really trusts that we get a lot of budget available for people from outside. If these good programmes are in place and the NPO, as the Secretary of State points out, is given a clear task of looking for these kinds of programmes, the NPO will also implement them. The Secretary of State did not go very deeply into everything that is still possible around the radio, because performance agreements are still being made. I would like to understand the Secretary of State in such a way that he will pay a great deal of attention in those performance agreements to the fact that many musical styles may not be heard on the radio at the moment. I've mentioned a lot of styles. There's been a motion on soul and jazz. I find it a little strange for us to interfere with the programming of the radio from the Chamber. We shouldn't do that, but there's nothing wrong with finding in a broad sense that soul, jazz, but also schlager music, more Dutch music, rockabilly, americana and country get a good place on the radio. I'd like to give that to the Secretary of State for the performance agreements he's about to discuss. I'd like to file two motions. The first is about ownership relations with commercial radio stations. It is actually the successor and elaboration of the Gasthuizen motion of 2 July 2015, which played mainly at EZ. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[requests the government, in accordance with the Gasthuizen c.s. motion adopted. (24095, No. 385) by means of a ministerial arrangement to amend the limitation of ownership of national radio lots from a maximum of one unshielded lot and one claused lot to a maximum of four lots, and to allow this amendment to take effect as from 1 January 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rutte and Mr Mohandis. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34264-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u345	If Members think 'what a complicated technical description', I would remind them that this technical description corresponds to what was in the other motion at the time. I brought that motion just in case anyone wants to read it. I will end with a motion on transparency. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas transparency and public accountability in the use of public funds are of great importance;]] [[noting that the Dutch Public Broadcasting Office does not now voluntarily disclose how much funds have been spent on a programme;]] [[invites the Government, in consultation with the NPO, to include in the concession policy plan the ex post disclosure of the total cost of a programme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rutte and Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34264-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u346	Mr. Chairman. A number of aspects were dealt with fairly well by the State Secretary in his reply. In this way, I can ignore the explanation given in the debate to the concept of entertainment and whether or not to allow it. I note that Mr Bosma has anticipated this, because his cabaret of purely entertainment value, without any informative, educational or cultural value, will no longer be broadcast in the public service. The 17 million cuts in regional broadcasting remain extremely troubling to us. This represents 12% of the total budget. It shouldn't be. I'd like to make a motion on that. I am not satisfied with the Secretary of State's response to governance. I am considering tabling an amendment on this point. It is difficult to find a good wording for this, but I do breed on it, because we have to say with the Council of State that pluralism is not sufficiently guaranteed in the law. Finally, I submit my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, as of 2016, the Cabinet intends to create a legal administrative organisation for regional broadcasters with the task of implementing the planned savings of 17 million per 2017;]] [[considers that further cuts in public service broadcasting are undesirable;]] [[noting that the government states that the austerity does not affect the quality of the programming of regional broadcasters;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from the planned reduction of 17 million for regional broadcasters if it proves to be detrimental to the quality of programming,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34264-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u347	Mr. Chairman. I share the sigh of Mr Van Dijk, who in turn quoted Mr Van Dam, that we sometimes need peace. You might want us to just go ahead for a little while. However, it may not be possible for the media and the broadcasters to do so, because developments in this area are so fast that you have to respond to them every time. Perhaps it is the fate of broadcasting bosses and media operators to discuss and debate a major change at 2:40 a.m. We wear that cross with some pride, because it is a beautiful and important subject. At the same time, the value of pluralism and diversity is unabated. If the Secretary of State then presents a bold plan to open up part of the order to people from outside, that is a new way of shaping pluralism. At least that is how we perceived it. Unlike some other colleagues, it is a significant and important step. It is giving hands and feet to pluralism. Perhaps a liberal and someone from the Christian-social tradition can find each other on that point. It is very important for us that the broadcasters, which are the carriers of external pluralism, remain in sufficient position. It will therefore depend on the framework conditions of the plan whether it will ultimately receive the support of my group and of the SGP Group. I have tabled a number of amendments to that effect. We will hear the verdict on that. I would also like to make three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that outside producers will soon have direct access to the NPO with their programme proposals;]] [[noting that the concession policy plan sets out how proposals from outside producers are dealt with jointly by broadcasters and the NPO;]] [[whereas broadcasters are responsible for form and content as laid down in Article 2.88 of the Media Act;]] [[Whereas broadcasters have an important role in the system and as co-producer to give outside producers a place in the order;]] [[calls on the Government to allow the concession policy plan, in the preparation of the performance agreements, as regards the role of the NPO and broadcasters vis-à-vis the outside producer, to be leading for the coming concession period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Pieter Heerma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34264-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u348	Another important aspect is the value of philosophy and the space for reflection. The Secretary of State has spoken warmly about this. I thank him for that. I thank him in general for all the answers he has given. It is also a great achievement for him to have that whole debate here in the middle of the night, after he was here yesterday. The Secretary of State knows that philosophy is of great importance to our political groups. To underline this, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the pluralism of public service broadcasting is partly shaped by philosophical media offerings;]] [[noting that philosophical media provision has an important public function, but is produced only to a limited extent through the market;]] [[believes that philosophical media provision should continue to be part of the programming of public service broadcasting;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that philosophical media provision is an integral part of the public media mission (offers of media provision in the fields of information, culture and education),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Segers and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34264-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u349	The last motion concerns the role that the Commissioner could play in relation to outside producers and possible conflicts that might arise between NPO and outside producers. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the proposal for a law amending the Media Act 2008 opens up the public broadcasting system to external parties;]] [[noting that the NPO has been mandated to establish in a scheme the criteria and procedural arrangements necessary to shape this process;]] [[Whereas the establishment and enforcement of this scheme is primarily the responsibility of the Governing Board and the internal supervisor of the NPO, but it is very important for the whole system that independent and external supervision of the establishment, operation and compliance with this scheme is also exercised;]] [[Considers that the Media Commissioner as an independent external supervisor is the most appropriate and appropriate to carry out this supervision independently;]] [[Invites the Government, to this end, to provide the Media Commissioner as the independent external supervisor in addition to the current task package, with appropriate tools to enable the Commission to validate and periodically verify the implementation of the scheme established by the NPO and to inform the Court thereof before 1 January 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34264-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u350	My final point is that I would like to ask for the vote on our motions before we vote on the whole legislative proposal. That's part of the final assessment of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u351	It's your right to ask. I call Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u352	Mr. Chairman. For the sake of time and, above all, the timing, I shall be able to agree with Mr Segers' term in terms of openness and transparency and the long discussions we have had on this subject. These are the issues that have been raised, as well as the motions and amendments that I have tabled with him. Moreover, the summary of Mr Rutte of the VVD must also be reported to the interrupt microphone. It was about the role that that letter plays exactly in this process of law. I think that was a very appropriate summary. I myself have two motions concerning the region. The Secretary of State has said that he is going to answer a lot in writing before the WHO. More than usual, the position of regional broadcasting in the debate on this bill has played a very important role. Nearly all parties have drawn attention to this and I said in my first term that the key test for our support for this legislative proposal lies precisely in the region. That is why I would like to table two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that regional broadcasting reflects regional identity and performs a democratic watchdog function by maintaining local and regional democracy;]] [[considers that regional identity can continue to be best maintained if the anchoring of regional broadcasting by means of a programme policy, or similar, body and province, is regulated;]] [[Calls on the Government, in the second stage of legislation within the concession of the RPO, to ensure the anchoring of regional broadcasting through the establishment of policy committees of media offerings associated with regional editorials, which take place as far as possible on the scale of provinces;]] [[calls on the Government to continue to legally guarantee the channels of the regional broadcasters, including the related must-carry obligation and the right to ether frequencies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pieter Heerma and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34264-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u353	The second motion concerns the position of Omrop Fryslân. This will not be a big surprise for the Secretary of State, given the previous debates and the broad attention given to the position of Omrop Fryslân in this debate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Omrop Fryslân has a special position in ensuring the Frysk as the second state language;]] [[Whereas the report of the Hoekstra Committee stresses the importance of the Frisian language and the importance of a full programme package in the Frisian language;]] [[Whereas Omrop Fryslân needs more versatile programming than other regional broadcasters to keep the Frisian language and culture alive;]] [[calls on the Government to give substance and financial support to the special position of Omrop Fryslân in the future of regional broadcasters and to agree on this with the province of Friesland,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pieter Heerma and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34264-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u354	I will try to be brief, but it is pretended that my approach to the situation surrounding the letter is not correct. That is why I am asking Mr Heerma once again for the man. He really made a point of it. The letter's here. Mr Heerma has just quoted the interrupting microphone in that letter. He spoke with the Secretary of State about the interpretation of the letter. He was not quite satisfied with the answer at the end. Is Mr Heerma ready to admit that this letter and the reply of the Secretary of State on the interpretation of that letter play an important role for him in whether or not to give support to this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u355	I have just said that I think the summary given by Mr Rutte at the interrupting microphone is the right one. The colleague of D66 can look back on that. That's the right approach. With regard to the second part of his question, I would like to say the following. I have just tabled a motion, which has been co-signed by Mr Segers, which deals precisely with this point. So if we thought this was sufficiently answered and thought it was clear, we would not have tabled the motion. We also asked to vote on the motion before voting on the law. In my view, that also gave the answer to that question. Given the first time in the debate, there is a need for us to include this in a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u356	Exactly. Mr Heerma does it with a detour, because he does not want to say it directly. He refers to words from others and to motions. I think he's very clear now. So he's actually just saying, "Yes, for me, the letter plays a central role. I'd like to have the motion on the letter first. If the motion has been put to the vote, I can decide if I support the law." Then my explanation has not been so crazy, unfortunately I have to conclude. Again, that's fine, but don't pretend it isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u357	I find it amazing that Mr Verhoeven concludes that it is regrettable that he does not think his own interpretation is so crazy. The essence is that, on the basis of the Minister's written reply, there was uncertainty as to whether the concession policy plan falls within the lines of the law when it comes to openness. We think the concession policy plan is the right explanation. So we didn't want a back door, to say: sorry, but this can't be done; it doesn't comply with the law. The letter again explains exactly how that concession policy plan, in the present case the law, should be seen. We have a debate on this. It is about the impact of the law and how it is handled. The fact that such a letter would be included in the history of the law is truly incredibly bullshit. Again, the way in which the VVD colleague summarized it to the interrupt microphone was excellent. I am very curious to see how the Secretary of State and the Chamber will deal with the motion we have tabled on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u358	Mr. Chairman. I think it is quite absurd that we should have this debate so late, because the coalition wants to pass a bill through the Chamber, if necessary, before 1 January. A bill of which usefulness and necessity are highly questionable. We have had an amusing discussion about entertainment. The Secretary of State claims "it's all gonna be different," the Labour Party says "it's all gonna be the same." We had a discussion on the relationship between the NPO and the broadcasters. My group is concerned about this, for example when it comes to implementing my motion. The broadcasters are always co-producer. The law gives a lot of space to the NPO. It has now been completed in the letter from the broadcasters. I have tabled an amendment on that point. As far as regional media is concerned, I find it really disappointing. There are cuts, but the Secretary of State has nothing against them. He doesn't even know if those cuts affect the editors. According to the broadcasters themselves, this is the case. So you're gonna have to do something about that. Furthermore, I have questions that have not been answered: a question about forced shopping for composers, a question about VAT in digital news, one about the autonomy of the broadcasters' websites and one about the liability of the NPO, for example when it comes to staff being made redundant. I'm filing four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas €17 million will be saved on regional channels, of which between 4 and 5 million will be cut down on editorial staff;]] [[considers that the deterioration of regional news provision is a major concern as it reduces the control of local and regional directors;]] [[noting that there would be around 300 full-time jobs if the number of informers and communication staff in all ministries were reduced by half;]] [[Considering that the savings that this will bring can give regional media a financial boost of at least EUR 10 million;]] [[calls on the government, the number of informers and communication staff in all ministries to halve and to invest the cost saved in regional news;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the VAT rate for digital news products is 21% and for paper versions 6%;]] [[whereas digital news products are therefore disadvantaged;]] [[Whereas, as early as 2012, a motion was adopted by the Chamber calling on the government to support a low VAT rate in Europe for example. digital news products;]] [[noting that, in the meantime, countries such as France and Luxembourg have already significantly reduced the rates for digital news products;]] [[calls on the Government to reduce VAT on digital news products to the level of paper versions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch Public Broadcasting (NPO) indicates that it wants to quit NPO Radio 6 Soul & Jazz;]] [[whereas Radio 6 Soul & Jazz is one of the few media that pay attention to jazz, world music, crossover, soul, blues, funk etc;]] [[Whereas stopping Radio 6 is particularly painful for a musical style like jazz, in which the Netherlands is a guide country;]] [[calls on the government, NPO Radio 6, to stand up,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that decisions taken by the NPO in the organisation of the system have a human impact on broadcasters;]] [[noting that these decisions may lead to a loss of a significant number of jobs in broadcasters;]] [[whereas liability for the consequences has not been invested in the NPO and is therefore not confronted with the consequences of its decisions;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the guidance of work-to-work is coordinated both inside and outside the system by the NPO, such as through the "Workstation,"]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34264-35]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34264-36]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34264-37]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34264-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u359	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his detailed reply. I understand that we will soon have a legislative process to continue talking about the position of regional broadcasters. I have already drawn attention in my first term to the independence in the appointment procedure of future or new directors of the NPO. I have a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the NPO is given more tasks and powers under the amended Media Act and that the Minister still appoints the directors of the NPO on a proposal from the Supervisory Board;]] [[Considering that the Supervisory Board of the NPO will be given a broadening and strengthening of tasks, including monitoring of the performance of the public media mission and the work of the Governing Board;]] [[Whereas the Supervisory Board as in higher education appoints the Administrative Board without the agreement of the Minister;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable that the appointment of new directors of the NPO should be a political matter;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with proposals that the directors of the NPO should no longer be appointed by the Minister, but directly and alone by the Supervisory Board,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Mohandis and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34264-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u360	Since we have had a lot of discussion about what colleagues call "open ends," I would like to emphasise that this legislative proposal should ultimately lead to the landing of it all. I wish the Secretary of State very much success and wisdom with the NPO, with the broadcasters, with the entire media field, so that as of 1 January 2016, if this law were passed by both Chambers, it would be possible to achieve the desired future resilience. I look forward to further proposals to discuss something that has not been discussed sufficiently in this debate, namely the position of regional broadcasters. That is what I believe will happen next year, and we will soon have a legislative consultation on this. So that's a lot of opportunity to talk about the media.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u361	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State began his first term with the question of why public service broadcasting is on earth. That is, first of all, what is laid down in the law and what I also think is very important, namely that it has public added value. What do you see? What are you listening to? That is based on the functions that have been appointed and also on entertainment, because that remains. It is also important that we continue to work hard on the environment in which public service broadcasting has to work and look at the technology, the competition, the space for public service broadcasting on the Internet and developments on non-linear, such as developments that we then want to realise with NPO Plus. That's where I think there should be a role for the NPO. How can you promote cooperation and how can you achieve coordination? A third important question for public service broadcasting is who makes it. After all, it is public domain. It therefore calls for democratic legitimacy. This is done by broadcasting organizations. Free-minded politics is based on participation, that is the essence. This can now be reinforced by broadcasting elections. I have the next motion for this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Media Act now also promotes public involvement;]] [[Whereas the best democratic legitimacy of public involvement is through elections;]] [[Calls on the Government to explore how broadcasting elections can contribute to the desired public engagement and to inform the Chamber of 1-1-2017 about the outcome of this exploration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34264-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u362	Characteristic of the current public order is that it is an open order. Anyone can join a new association if, of course, certain criteria are met. In my view, it is fundamentally wrong to allow commercial parties to join directly. In principle, it is wrong to have an undemocratic state broadcasting of the NPO, a zbo not to mention one which the PvdA has sometimes had problems with, to have programmed management and to give tasks and powers. Finally, it is also typically a form of old politics to discuss this law in this way in the middle of the night and to push it through before the autumn recess. The care is far away. Unfortunately, many of my questions have not been answered. I will have to decide whether a number of additional amendments are needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u363	You still have until Tuesday. Thank you for your second-term contribution. The Secretary of State has requested a suspension before he can explain all the amendments and motions and provide an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u364	We have come to the answer of the Secretary of State in the second term. I am happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u365	Mr. Chairman. There was one more question. Mr Verhoeven asked if we could do anything about online advertising. Maybe I can give him the hand-pick to get back to that in the letter I always send around the media budget. Then we can talk about it. For the sake of clarity, I should like to advise you immediately on the motions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u366	Will you then do the amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u367	Yes, after that, I will do the amendments. I too will turn it around, just like the votes. The motion in part No. 25 is about the anchoring of soul and jazz and was tabled by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Mohandis. I should like to leave that to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 26 is, of course, linked to the motion in part No. 28. One is based on transparency at genre level and the other on transparency at programme level. The room knows my preference. I shall leave the two motions to the House and we shall see what a majority will be for. However, I should also like to look in the direction of Mr Verhoeven. We also had an interesting debate about what you do when there are big issues surrounding, for example, the rights of the division of honor or such a King's song and yet the Chamber is asking for more insight. I welcome the fact that the proposal which will be the subject of a majority vote will be decisive, but the other point is still valid. In fact, I think that, for the purposes of providing information to the Chamber, we should simply get the information from the NPO so that we can have an open debate on it in the Chamber. Perhaps Mr Verhoeven can respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u368	I give the floor to Mr Verhoeven because he was addressed directly. Very briefly, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u369	That is a legitimate question from the Secretary of State. That's what we talked about. Mr Rutte also addressed me and asked me exactly what I want. I'll try to make it very clear. I want the standard daily responsibility at genre level. So I want to have the ordinary responsibility at genre level, because I do not want us to see the costs of every programme every time. I explained why. I made a choice in that. However, we have special situations, of which we have had two in recent years. Today there was another piece in the AD about larger contracts that are programme- or genre-crossing as far as I am concerned. They don't fit in that frame. I have always been clear about this when it comes to discussion, and I have asked a lot of Parliamentary questions about it. That's how I'm in it. That is why I have also proposed the line through the Commissioner. The Secretary of State says he wants to be able to give that information himself. I follow that explanation, but my motion doesn't rule that out. It's absolutely not meant to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u370	It's good to have that clarity. Then I'll go down that line and start the conversations with the NPO. So this is more about the standard reports. I await the results of the votes, but I do have a hunch which way it is going.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u371	Mr Van Dijk, it is not your motion. You do have an urgent question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u372	Yes, I have to advise my group. We have the motion in part No. 26 and the motion in part No. 28. They're opposite each other. One is about genres and the other is about programs. The Secretary of State says of both: judge Chamber. I think that's a novel.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u373	I think Mr Van Dijk has a point there. I think I formalize the judgment on the motion by Rutte and Grashoff, the motion in part No. 28, you should leave it to the Chamber. It is in line with what we really want it to be. The motion of Verhoeven and Mohandis in part No. 26 I should formally advise against it, because it is contrary to that. Perhaps that is not entirely the case. One motion goes a little further than the other. So they're more in line. However, I am also very realistic about it. We have had a good debate on it. Whether at genre level or programme level, it is both a step in the right direction. I would have liked to have seen one more step. However, if a majority of the House says that it is enough for it to stop at genre level, then I am democratic enough to accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u374	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u375	I would like to make a brief point of order, Mr President. The motion by Mr Grashoff and myself is far more far-reaching than the motion in part No. 26. Can this be taken into account when determining the order on the voting list?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u376	Yeah, I get that. The motion in part No. 28 will therefore be put to the vote first, and only then will the motion be put to the vote. 26. We shall also vote on the motions before we vote on the amendments, but Members will see them all on the voting list.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u377	I'll come to the motion in part No. 27. I have already said something about the date of entry into force and how it should be translated into the model. If all this can be done, I can also leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. The motion by Mr Grashoff, in part No. 29, it's about reversing the budget cuts. I understand Mr Grashoff's commitment. I have to say, however, that we had the debate on this a while ago. So it is not this law that brings down this austerity, but the law that we have already passed. I would like to inform Mr Grashoff that, in my consultation with the regional broadcasters, I am going to do everything I can to make sure that this cut is as much as possible to the detriment of the editors and the programming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u378	You haven't given an opinion on the motion yet, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u379	Sorry, Mr. Chairman, I have to dissuade her. There is no cover included either. The motion in part No. 31 I can explain as policy support. I shall therefore leave it to the House to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u380	You're gonna save the motion in part No. 30 over, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u381	Yes. It is, of course, about the essence of the agreement and of the discussion we have had here. Mr Verhoeven just referred to that bombastic in his term, I would say. It must be clear that the law is always leading. This is about the implementation and implementation of that law. The concession policy plan and its elaboration should simply fit in and in between. I say to Mr Heerma that we have had a debate on the concession policy plan and the letter. I think that the letter offers some clarification. If I may interpret this motion in such a way that I will continue along that line, and I also ask the NPO to come up with an arrangement that is workable for both broadcasters and the outside producers, so that everyone is satisfied, then I can do very well with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u382	The judgment on the motion in part No. 30 is therefore: support of policy and judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u383	Yes. The motion in part No. 30 and the motion in part No. 31 I therefore leave both to the Court's judgement. For the variation, I'm going to take the motion to piece number one. 32 dissuade. It also calls on the Media Commissioner to play a role in this whole complex of the openness of the system, which we have just talked about. I hope I understand the motion that way. If that is not the case, I will hear it from Mr Segers. I think that's just a complicated construction. This is much more about efficiency, while the Media Commissioner is really testing legality. This would mean that the tasks and powers of the Media Commissioner would be extended. I do not know whether the Commissioner is really capable of doing this. So I advise against this motion. I'll come to the motion in part No. 33, by Mr Heerma and Mr Segers. The second part of the request remains the same. So I can agree with that with ease. In the first part, a guarantee is actually requested at the level of the provinces. I'm good with that. So I'd like to leave that to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u384	The judgment on the motion in part No. So you leave the room to 33?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u385	Yes, because it offers the possibility of flexibility within, but maximum at the level of provinces. I'll come to the motion in part No. 34 by Mr Heerma and Mr Segers. I see that motion as a policy support. There's a substance and a financial component in it. In order to create clear expectations, I would like to say that I will of course include the extra money that already goes to Omrop Fryslán. The motion in part No. 35 by Mr Jasper van Dijk is about the discussion we had on the transfer of money and easy cover. I'm deceiving that motion. Also the motion in part No. 36 by Mr Jasper van Dijk I advise. That motion concerns the discussion on the lower VAT rate. This affects European laws and regulations. The motion in part No. I also advise 37 of Mr Jasper van Dijk. I think that we should be careful with regard to Radio 6. I will inform the Chamber of the results of this. Then I come to the motion on part No. 38. Let me take a look at Mr Van Dijk. I think I hear sounds like him, but I don't know if we're good at this. I would like to start by discussing this with the NPO and then send a letter to the Chamber which we can then discuss when discussing the Media budget during the WHO. We can then look at what is going on and see if we can find a reasonable way to ensure that people who can do well but may need some further training can find another place within the network. Can I do it like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u386	That seems reasonable to me. I will hold the motion and put it back to the vote at the WHO Media if I so wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u387	At the request of Mr Jasper van Dijk, I propose his motion (34264), No. 38). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u388	The Mohandis/Segers motion in part No. 39 is about the appointment of the directors. This very strongly calls for proposals to be made to stop the NPO's directors from being appointed by the Minister. I told you, I'm against it. In that sense, I advise against the motion. I am prepared to include this point in the examination of the status of the NPO as an independent administrative body. I have agreed with Minister Blok to look at what this is about and what the NPO as a Zbo means for the harmonisation of the Zbos. These aspects are also reflected in this research. As a result, I will inform the Chamber, but I would advise against the motion put forward here. The Klein motion in part No. 40, I'm telling you. In the legislative proposal, I propose a broader regulation of public involvement through the broadcasters and through an assignment to the NPO. The elections proposed by Mr Klein do not seem sensible to me. I'll take a look at the chairman. Did I get all the motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u389	You've had them all. You've given them all proper advice. It seems to me that there can be no misunderstanding about that. Then we come to the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u390	The first amendment I am dealing with is the Segers/Pieter Heerma amendment to part No. 9. I would advise against that amendment. In fact, a very difficult procedure is being asked for with regard to the detailed rules for the annual report. As you know, AMVBs have to go past the Council of State and you name it all. These are really things you do in a ministerial arrangement. In my view, the Chamber would like to know whether we are going to do it properly if it is clear at what level transparency should be regulated. If I promise, the proposers may be satisfied. I do not recommend the amendment as it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u391	I just need to know exactly what the commitment is. I understand that we are receiving a letter explaining to the Secretary of State exactly how these detailed rules are designed. It may then be involved in a debate. Then we can talk about that, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u392	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u393	That's gonna save you a lot. I'll think about it. It is an important undertaking that it will at least come through here and that we can just have a normal debate about it and that it will not be decided somewhere after noon without us having been able to shed some light on it. I'd give a shit if I were you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u394	We are waiting to see what you are doing with this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u395	The open door formula, not Mr Heerma's back door. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr De Pasquale and others on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on the We have discussed this at length. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr De Pasquale and others on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 11 concerns the deletion of the provision from the law which allows for Sunday advertising before and after programming. I do not have a very basic view on this. I know that this applies to a number of parties. I leave the opinion on this amendment to the House. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr De Pasquale and others on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 12, which is about the restrictions on advertising on public service broadcasting, I advise against. That is contrary to the previous expectations and the agreements we made with Hilversum. The Klein amendment to point No. 13 concerns cooperation between the NPO and broadcasters in relation to public involvement. I do not recommend this amendment. We distinguish between the task for the broadcasters and for the NPO. I think the NPO should be there for 17 million Dutch. On the amended Segers/Pieter Heerma amendment No. 16 we have already had a small debate. We need to see if the following is right in the amendment. After all, if the amendment is adopted soon, it will become legislation. It must be clear. I now have the impression that the amendment can be read in two ways. If it can be read in such a way that efficiency is not assessed, but that the effectiveness test of the NPO is carried out in a good way in accordance with the law. I see Mr Segers nodding. I can leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber. In the Jasper van Dijk amendment to item No. 17 states that the NPO cannot or should not make agreements relating to the content of the media offer. This is an amendment which I must strongly discourage. If you agree to this, the openness of the order cannot be developed because the NPO should be able to agree on the substantive frameworks with outside producers, which will then be developed by the broadcasters. I must therefore advise against this amendment. I would also like to mention the Klein amendment to point No. 18, which is about the deletion of the NPO's steering and cooperation body, I advise against. I have already said in the debate that it is important that there should be more power at the NPO, including in order to gain more power. If you look at the major changes in the media landscape, you can see that it lacks that power. This is not good for public service broadcasting as a whole. In the Klein amendment to point No. 20 states that at least three editors should be involved. I want to dissuade this. It doesn't really add that much. The bill already leaves room for several editors, both to networks and channels and genres. The NPO must itself choose the most appropriate organisation of the editors and also involve broadcasters. These are now truly internal practices and we should not pretend to regulate them closely with legislation. The amendment in part No. 21 refers to the profiling requirement of public service broadcasting. I should also advise against that amendment. Mr Klein seems to suggest that the profiling requirement for public service broadcasting disappears with the bill, but that is not the case. I refer Mr Klein to Rule 2.10. There he sees that there is still a profiling requirement for the NPO. The establishment of these profiles is not a task of the government. It affects direct programming and is therefore a responsibility of the NPO.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u396	My amendment on the drafting is an amendment and we do not just do something that is not in the law. The question is very simple. The law now states that there is one editor. That's the legal text. Then it's very wise for you to say that it's at least three editors. The Secretary of State's argument that it is not possible at all and that they have to find out for themselves is not the issue because the law states that it can be one editor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u397	What is meant by the law is that there is an editorial board in which the NPO can finally see how it organises it exactly, whether it does so in one editorial board or whether it chooses different editorial boards. That space leaves the law. It doesn't say "one editor" either, but I think it says "one editor." Now Mr Klein specifically recommends that there should be separate clubs for example, for sound and for the Internet. I think that's really too close for Hilversum. I would like to leave that open and therefore advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u398	We have remained with the amendment on item No. 22.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u399	The amendment in part No. Twenty-one, I've already advised against it. The amendment in part No. 22 is about adding talent development. We have had an interesting brief debate about the fact that it is actually covered by innovation. If Mr Mohandis attaches importance to having this explicitly in the task, I do not see any objection to it either. For that reason, I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. Mr Klein and Mr Van Dijk have tabled the amendment to item No. 23 submitted. I can be brief about that. That is contrary to the purpose of this bill and I therefore advise against it. The amendment in part No. 24 concerns an appointment committee, the composition of the Supervisory Board and a binding nomination. I would advise against that amendment. I have just said a few words about this. I think it is important that a supervisor of a Zbo is completely independent. There must therefore also be an independent appointment committee. It can't be another kind of internal Hilversums chat. That is why an independent supervisory board is crucial. As far as the binding nomination is concerned, I have already indicated that I am not in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u400	This brings you to the end of your second-term reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u401	Yeah, it's 3:30. I would like to thank you and the Chamber for a very constructive debate. It is, I believe, the third major media bill that we have seen passed here, and I hope that this third bill, like the first two, will be able to count on broad support again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-9.u402	Thank you. Thank you very much for your answer. I am of course grateful to the Secretary of State and I would also like to thank the Members very much. Of course, I would also like to thank those who have worked very hard here, whether or not on the staff of the Secretary of State or our own staff. I wish everyone who is watching or listening in or still here is a very good night and tomorrow healthy again. Thank you very much. We will be voting on this bill next Tuesday, the motions tabled and the amendments.
