ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. It'll be July 1st in a week. Then new rules for the WW will apply. Anyone who enters the WW after 1 July may in future keep some of his additional earnings in addition to the WW benefit. It's 30%, to be exact. That is a good thing. Work's gonna pay more. It becomes more attractive to accept a job or to accept a temporary job. However, this new system has the effect that in future WW'ers will have to pass their income on to the UWV every month in a digital system. The UWV is now ringing the alarm clock about that. In the test phase 99% of the people failed to enter their income, Trouw reported. My question to the Minister is: is that percentage correct? An UWV driver now says: "We assume that in the first month everyone is doing it wrong. We do have concerns about it." D66 is in favour of this new system, because work is going to pay more, but I do want to avoid the chaos in implementation. I'm afraid if the UWV pulls the bell like that two weeks before introduction. I do not want to stand here in August and then talk to the Minister about tens of thousands of people who are out of money, because their WW benefit was not paid because they did not manage to pass on the good income. In July alone, 60,000 new people are expected to join the WW. They then apply for such a benefit and have to pass on their income. Now the UVW has taken on additional officials. If I understand correctly, there are 100 of them. EUR 5 million is also earmarked for an information campaign. However, my question to the Minister is: has enough been done to manage this properly? Is the Minister confident that the implementation will go well on 1 July? Is the UVW confident that this will go well on July 1st? Do the UVW and the Minister consider the introduction to be justified on 1 July?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. We do this because from now on anyone who works from a WW benefit can keep €0.30 of each euro earned. That is not the case now, but it will be later. This will help people get to work. For this, it is necessary to give up the revenue. That's a downside to the system. From now on, beneficiaries will have to give up their income. To prepare the whole, it has been tested. In that test, 26 people were asked to fill out their SV wages. They could not, and that is where the statement comes from that it did not go well in 99% of the cases. With the results of the test, the help functions and the website have been improved. The most important question is: what happens if you fill out a wrong amount? Then you'll just get your benefit settled against the wrong amount. The following month this is settled on the basis of the employer's policy administration. If people don't fill in the right amount at the beginning, this doesn't mean they run out of money. Then the numbers. Some of the people in the WW have no income. So that's easy to fill in. They'll be warned. There's gonna be an app. In the case of some of the persons concerned, the employer will transmit the data on time. Now a third of the employers pass on the income of the WW beneficiaries on time. In this case, you get a pre-filled screen and you just have to press "ok." This concerns a third of the 45,000 or 60,000 people we are talking about. You have a smaller proportion of people who have to give up income and make a mistake. That'll be settled the month after. Yet we use 100 extra people to answer questions, to call back and to warn if one forgets to give up income. So we're doing everything we can. An introduction will, of course, be accompanied by mistakes, but it is a very good cause. People get something out of it when they start working out of the WW. We ensure that we do it responsibly. Yeah, I'm confident we can do it. We know that things go wrong and that people will be wrong, but that does not have to have any adverse consequences for those involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u3	It is good that all kinds of actions are being taken and that the Minister has confidence in them. My question as to whether this also applies to the UWV, I repeat. We do not want things to go wrong in the future. My group is convinced of the added value of revenue collection. When people go to work, they make money. However, no one is waiting for a system that crashes when people have filled out the form wrong or not. Can the Minister guarantee that the system is likely to cope with this rather extensive process of adjustment and settlement? Has there been enough testing to know that it's going well with the tens of thousands of people involved? Can the Minister explain again why he thinks you should also give up that you don't have any income? I imagine he's not gonna do that. Then much fewer people have to report for this. A lot of people go wrong by mistake. It is important, also given the mistakes in the past, that the minister here once again says that you will never be treated as a fraud by him or by the UWV if you have made a mistake or if you just didn't understand it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u4	Let me start with the last one. That's just the beauty of this system. Due to the employer's declaration through the payroll administration, the following month is automatically settled. If you've made a mistake, the correct amount will be settled against the month before. That means you can't cheat anymore. It also means that people who accidentally fill out the wrong amount will not be fined. That's very important. Why did the UWV look for the press? It's part of a campaign to alert people, to warn people. There will be radio commercials and the website will be adapted to them. That always happens with a big change and this is a big change. For the people who already have a WW benefit, nothing changes. It's about the new influx from next month. It is important to pay attention to the fact that something changes. In this light, the UWV has also openly given press information. You have to be honest about the disadvantages and the problems you can always expect with a big change. There was one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u5	My question was: why should people...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u6	...you're gonna fill in some stuff yourself, aren't you? People have to log into the system several times a month. It is important that they click on their own or that the revenue is correctly displayed in the screen. In the end, we want to seduce employers to make wage returns much faster. We are currently doing tests together with the Tax Administration. So everyone sees the screen of their income. You confirm that and then the benefit will be paid. Whether it's zero or an amount, you're gonna have to go there every month. People will have to get used to that. It would have disadvantages if you had to do it one time and not the other time. If you confirm, you'll have the benefit in the account a few days after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u7	It's good that there's extra communication, but these messages just scare people. I'm glad the Minister says that, even if you're wrong, that never means you're not getting benefits. I have heard the Minister make a clear promise on this. I've also heard him say that you can never be treated as a fraud. Then there are two questions left. Is there any confidence at the UWV that this is going well? Does the Minister wish to inform the Chamber immediately when it appears, at the end of July/beginning of August, that a large group of people are stuck because the system cannot cope with the volumes? The Minister would also comment on whether these tests are such that we can have real confidence in the ICT system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u8	There have been four ICT releases to test the system. This has led us to be able to take a go decision in May because we consider the system to be reliable enough. The UWV has confidence in the technique and implementation, but also takes measures, because you can expect many people to give up a wrong amount in the beginning. If that leads to major problems, I will, of course, inform the Chamber. Otherwise, the commitment I made in general consultation in April will be that I will give the Chamber an appreciation of the implementation of the budget. We have done this for a number of months. You can hope that the figures of the people who import the wrong amount keep improving. You'll get used to it. Above all, I hope to be able to make a profit by improving the speed of employers' wage returns. That makes it much easier for WW beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u9	The minister clearly has faith in the executive. We're gonna see it. I think it's a major operation. I hope that confidence is justified and that people will not end up in an execution swamp. We have to wait and see, because neither of us can look into the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u10	The Minister just indicated that if someone fills out a wrong amount, they will correct it and that they will not wrongly receive their benefit. I'm very happy about that. Now I got the impression from the coverage that, if people are late, that could lead to people not getting benefits, at least not in that month. What about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u11	If you're late, it slows down the whole process. After you give up the income, it takes three to ten working days for the benefit to be paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u12	People have to give up their SV pay, the Social Insurance pay. The big problem is no one knows what that is. You have to give up something you don't know what it is. Furthermore, every human being must pass something on to another at the moment when the situation has changed. Now we're gonna force people to give up if it doesn't change.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u13	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u14	This is bullying the unemployed and the jobseekers, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u15	If it doesn't change, it will be pre-filled on the screen and you need to confirm it. We are already asking WW beneficiaries to report and to show on the website that they are active in applying and so on. So that's not extra work. It also includes confirming that the revenues that are there are correct. Mr Ulenbelt is right to say that the SV pay does not say much to many people. The test panel showed that with 26 people. In 99% of cases, however, this is the same as the tax wage or the wage tax wage. On the website of the UWV we take people step by step at hand to show what amount they have to give up. If anything goes wrong there, we call people back to say that the amount is not entirely in line with the wage administration and that they should do it differently from now on. I hope that in future the paycheck producers will also be able to make improvements. It's a system that's meant to help people. From now on, you'll be making progress if you start working from the WW, even if you start working for a lower wage or if it's temporary. This is the disadvantage that goes with it: you have to give up your income yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u16	I thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber.
