ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u1	This evening, we will reply and repeat and begin with the second term on the side of the Chamber. I would like to welcome you all, colleagues in the Chamber, the executive and the official support, which is probably still on the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u2	He's in the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u3	Very good. Welcome, too. I also welcome the guests in the public gallery. As a directive for speaking time, I am using a third of the speaking time in the first term. I would like to stress that I regard this as a directive. This means that most of you have five to seven minutes' speaking time. I also propose that we should limit ourselves if possible to two interruptions, and do so strictly in two. Mrs Mulder has a point of order, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u4	Mr. Chairman. If necessary, I would also very much like to place a third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u5	We say this as a kind of directive. We are considering whether it is possible to achieve this. The Minister responded to the amendments. You got it. He also answered a number of outstanding questions. You have also been able to take note of this. So we can go ahead for the second term. I would like to give the floor to Mr Smaling of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u6	Mr. Chairman. I shall confine myself to the split amendment to item No. 25. We will support a number of motions that are still being tabled, but I think it would be a good idea to devote my time entirely to this amendment. I must say that I was somewhat shocked by the amount of corrections in the Minister's written response to this amendment. I would like to ask him about that. First, he says: if production and supply are in trouble, then the nets are drawn. That's not true. A network operator is a separate legal entity, an NSA or an e.g. within the group. The assets of a system operator are separate from the assets of the holding company. The financial management decision shall impose solvency and liquidity requirements on the system operator. The second claim is that the reversal of the group ban creates an uneven playing field. That is not true either: the playing field is uneven by continuing the split now. E-ON, GDF SUEZ, Vattenfall and RWE have system administrators in the group, and therefore favourable financing conditions. Thirdly, the answer is: households belonging to DELTA and Eneco do not have a future-proof system. That's not true. The board of directors and part of the supervisory board of the network company are actually not allowed to have much connection with the energy company. The energy company shall not interfere with the regulatory tasks of the system operator. Each network operator must submit the quality and capacity documents every two years, which are also monitored by the Authority for Consumer & Market. Fourthly, parties that own the systems would have a competitive advantage over other producers. We do not believe that this is true either, because the system operator must treat producers and suppliers equally. Fifthly, the risk of the system being used as collateral for risky commercial adventures is mentioned. That's not true either, because the law doesn't allow it. I am surprised that in such a small piece of text there are so many things in the answer that are demonstrably incorrect. So I ask the Minister how that is possible. Does he even know his own law? All the things I mention are linked to a law article. My group is therefore very surprised by this. Partly on the basis of the first term, I would like to conclude that, in my view, there are no arguments for the co-subscribers of the amendment, as well, to continue the group ban now. The only thing that is happening now is that 1,500 to 2,000 people are at risk of losing their jobs, that we will see less sustainable investment from two Dutch companies and that we will soon have a nuclear power plant as an orphan. That is why I propose to the Minister and my colleagues in the Chamber to embrace this amendment. I didn't know you were taking 1,500 to 2,000 people for no reason. That is what is about to happen. Embrace this amendment. I urge the Minister to reconsider his assessment of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u7	I do not like Mr Smaling's qualification. It's not up to the Chamber to take people's jobs. Companies deal with their own production and responsibilities. In these responsibilities they make their own choices. So this isn't up to the Chamber. I think it would be unwise for Mr Smaling to report this in this way. We shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u8	And your question is whether Mr Smaling agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u9	No, that's just a remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u10	I'm really surprised. It is our job as representatives of the people to serve citizens and business as well as possible. This is a case in which a lot of jobs are at stake, without any arguments justifying it. A company can fall over because the business no longer runs, like Philip Morris, Zalco or Thermphos, to name just a few Zeeland or almost Zeeland companies. There's no need for that here. DELTA's turning again! Eneco's running good! What makes you think you're gonna blame me for worrying about people losing their jobs? That's our core business, isn't it? What the hell?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u11	It is about the responsibility that you have as a Member of Parliament and as a representative of the people in the laws that we have, and the responsibility that we must feel in doing so. Companies have their own responsibility. Mr Smaling says: DELTA is a fine company. Maybe he should take a closer look at DELTA's figures and better peel the company's financial situation. The numbers are really different. I'm not going to go into this any further, because this is up to the company. Maybe it's easy with some people just nag what the CEO of DELTA says isn't very sensible. Maybe it's wise to check the numbers after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u12	I can reassure Mr Bosman: I have looked into DELTA's figures. Otherwise, I wouldn't be so enthusiastic about this company. It has indeed had difficult times, but I think it has largely recovered. There's been 20 million profits. A facility has been made and some things have been sold. I think it's been cleaned up. It's a through and through Zeeland's company. How can Mr Bosman, who comes from there, come up with such texts? I'm really surprised at this interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u13	This is such an explicit challenge that Mr Bosman can respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u14	As a member of the Zeeuws Parliament, I am concerned about employment in Zeeland and about the future stability of jobs. Mr Smaling is confusing two things. He thinks saving DELTA is equivalent to saving jobs. I really doubt that. He's talking about 20 million, but he still needs to take a look at the numbers. No profit is made in the core business.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u15	Now this is going to be a third time in the interruption. I didn't mean to. I would ask Mr Smaling to continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u16	I was ready for my conclusions. I once again call on my fellow Members to be very aware of what is going on here and to take a good look at the amendment. It doesn't ask to wipe the fork off the table. That does not relate to the ruling of the Supreme Court. It calls for this split to be referred back to the House as a European directive, and it does not look like it is ever going to force us to continue a division of ownership. If there is a vote on this, I shall put it to a roll-call vote. I think this is very important. I hope I don't experience that more than half of this Chamber chooses to relieve 1,500 to 2,000 people for no reason at all. If the amendment is not adopted, the Minister will fetch the First Chamber. Of course, it's always nice if you can get a law through the Chambers. I can sense a little bit of how that can go, given the period in which I have been in the First Chamber myself. There was another motion at the time - Doek c.s. which had been sent along with the adoption of the Independent Network Management Act in 2006. That motion actually asked the cabinet the same thing: don't do it until Europe really has to do it. A cabinet change didn't carry out that motion. Minister Wijn had first embraced the motion, but he was succeeded by Minister Van der Hoeven and he put the motion aside. This is the brusque of the First Chamber, isn't it? You shouldn't do that, as the Minister knows. This motion was adopted very widely, so it may happen that a motion - Dock 2.0 will arrive in the First Chamber or that a novelle will be asked for. Then the Minister runs out of time. I am also not in favour of all this not being achieved before the end of the year, because I would also like TenneT's indication of wind at sea to be done in good time. That is why I ask the Minister to count his buttons and, if necessary, to come up with a letter of amendment, if we can deal quickly with the part of the law that needs to be dealt with quickly. I urge the Minister, his creativity, his spirit, his compassion and so on. I can make up ten more words, but I hope I have made it so clear what I would like the Minister to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u17	There can be no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u18	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister, but certainly also his officials, for all the answers to the many questions that have been asked and for the response to the amendments. Thank you for that. Unfortunately, I have to say that the Minister and I disagree on a number of points. These are points that are quite important to my group. I would like to devote my speaking time today to three points. I shall begin with the split or the so-called group ban and the amendment by the person who has just spoken, Mr Smaling. The Minister says that this amendment cannot put the split aside because it is regulated by the Independent Network Management Act (Won). I don't think that's right. The group ban shall not be maintained by the Won after the entry into force of STROOM. The group ban itself is not part of the Won. It contains only the implementation aspects. The effective introduction of the group ban is regulated by the Electricity and Gas Act. It's being replaced by the STROOM Act. So I think it is right that the amendment to this bill should be tabled. Our name's underneath there, too. With the split, the Minister also wants to prevent the networks from running risks, for example, as a result of bankruptcy. I don't think that can be the issue. After all, network and energy companies are legally divided. The Electricity Act provides that the system operator must be a separate legal entity. As a result, a system operator cannot be affected by debts or by the bankruptcy of another part of the group. The Christian Union therefore calls on the Minister and the parties in the Chamber not to continue the planned division. The arguments have been exchanged; Mr Smaling has just repeated them. My group also notes that this is a drain on Zeeland, where employment is under considerable pressure. I therefore have a motion for a resolution; I believe that this is the time limit for tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u19	That's right. Go ahead!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u20	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet intends to implement the Independent Network Management Act, which provides that the management and ownership of energy networks and the supply of energy should be divided into separate undertakings (split or group ban);]] [[Considering that the splitting of DELTA will cause a high level of job losses in a region which is already vulnerable due to relocation and closure;]] [[Considers that the Zeeland Campus Plan of the Education Authority provides a basis for encouraging the Zeeland economy and employment through cooperation between government, education and enterprises;]] [[calls on the Government to join and discuss the implementation of the employment plans of the province of Zeeland and to inform the Chamber before the end of the year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34199-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u21	My second point concerns the high-voltage cables. The Minister has given insight into socialising the cost of wiring with a municipal contribution of 25%, 10% or 5%. As is well known, I have tabled an amendment to the latter in order to ensure that the municipal contribution does not exceed 5%. The costs for households are very low, but for energy-intensive companies, the bill can rise significantly. The difference in the municipal contribution of 25%, 10% or 5% is not so large anymore. For an SME, we are talking about €19, €22 or €23 on an annual basis. For energy companies, this is a few tonnes, but certainly not the millions the Minister mentioned last week. I therefore maintain my amendment. Not all high voltage cables are wired. That is not technically possible at the moment. There is a buy-out mechanism for this, but we must continue to look at ways of finding a solution for these high-voltage cables too. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the proposed wiring scheme in the Electricity Act does not allow for the wiring of 220 kV and 380 kV lines, but that innovation will significantly reduce the cost of wiring in the future than is currently the case;]] [[Whereas future wiring should not be excluded, for example in order to prevent the sale of residents, as is the case in the municipalities of Zaanstad and Molenwaard;]] [[Whereas all options should be assessed in terms of the impact on residents, the adaptability of the area and cost-efficiency;]] [[calls on the Government to consider seriously alternatives to the buy-out of residents on high-voltage lines, including the wiring of 220 kV and 380 kV lines, the movement of the route or the use of innovative types of towers with less radiation, when developing the buy-out scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34199-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u22	I come to my third and final point, the amendment on full disclosure. I find the Minister's reaction disappointing. He's dissuading the amendment. He says, for example, that the administrative burden will increase enormously. That's not the point. After all, we already have full transparency in the case of green electricity. Then why can't we do that in grey currents? Energy producers and suppliers already use the CertiQ system, recording the production of grey electricity. It's already being done. We can easily join that and anchor it in the law. The Minister indicated that only Austria applies this, but I understand that Switzerland and Sweden are already doing so on a voluntary basis. Several European bodies, such as the Council of European Energy Regulators, have included this in their opinions. My plea is clear: I hope that the Minister will look again at this amendment. I understand that not everyone is happy with this amendment. The coal-fired power stations must now show what's going on. But if I have to choose between the interests of the coal plants and the interests of the Dutch consumer who wants to know where his electricity comes from, I choose the latter. So much for my input. I look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u23	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his answers and for commenting on the amendments. With such a large pile, it helps that we have received those answers in writing. I still have a few questions and a few motions. A number of amendments have been tabled on cable in different degrees, one of which has been given the 'judgement chamber'. Unfortunately, that was not my amendment, but I would like to congratulate those who have been given the 'judgement chamber'. However, how does the Minister deal with this in practice? Will the length of the cable, the number of inhabitants involved or the number of inhabitants living in that municipality become the guide? Can the Minister say a little more about that? Then I come to cross-participants on the networks. I understand from the answer that it is not yet 100% excluded that shares could also be exchanged with non-public entities. I therefore ask the Minister to reflect on this and to take us a little more into account in his considerations so as to leave open the possibility that parts of our network will be in non-public hands through that cross-participation. The producer tariff was also equally discussed in the first period. I believe that the GroenLinks spokesperson asked the Minister about this. He was right to say that one tax for the consumer would then be replaced by another tax for the consumer. However, he did not agree that you could vary between more polluting and less polluting forms of energy. Thus, consumers who reduce less polluting energy would be subject to a lower tax rate than consumers who reduce more polluting electricity. Since the ETS does not yet work as optimally as we would like to, I think it is interesting to explore this possibility. That is why I am asking for a response from the Minister on this point too. I come to the pièce de résistance, I would almost say, the split. Like a number of spokesmen for me, I also call on the Minister to comment on the content of the arguments. This issue keeps people very busy. It is an issue that affects people's personal situation and that also lives wider in the field. Since this issue is considered to be of such great social importance, I believe that we should also discuss the content of the arguments. After all, we need to be able to explain to people why we have chosen a or b in the first place. I therefore urge the Minister once again to respond to these answers. I, too, have looked at the legal situation. A number of principles play a role here, for example the fact that a company is not liable for its own debts. There is only one very limited exception. I ask the Minister whether the deletion of that limited exception could help to protect the network. In short, is what the Minister really wants necessary to protect that network? Is it really necessary to go this far? We have already talked about the safeguards that should be available for the nuclear power plant if the Minister is going to split up. The Minister made this point quite clear: if it continues, then I feel responsible for finding a good solution for the nuclear power plant. I have not heard the water company in Zeeland so clearly come back into the discussion. How does the Minister assess the situation of that water company? I have a few more motions. The Minister knows that I would very much like us to speed up the sustainability of the built environment. All the options we have for that, we really need to explore. At least that applies to the experiments with it. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas making homes and buildings (zero on the meter) energy neutral at once contributes to reducing the dependence on natural gas and to manageable energy costs of households, and also boosts the construction sector;]] [[Whereas building-related financing through the fixed rate can be an attractive and rapidly scalable solution to the (in large numbers) realisation of zero-on-the-meter housing;]] [[calls on the Government to support the rapid roll-out of "zero on the meter', for example by allowing building-related funding in the experimental space of the Electricity Act, while exploiting the potential of grid operators,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Veldhoven and Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34199-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u24	My next motion is about gas certification. We have already talked about certification of green electricity. Previously, we also discussed the certification of gas. Together with Mrs Van Tongeren, I would therefore like to ask the Minister the following. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas certification of the origin of gas ensures greater transparency and enables customers to make better informed choices as to what type of gas they wish to purchase, for example whether that gas may come from the Arctic Sea;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine how certification of gas origin can be introduced into the gas market and what the administrative burden would be, and to inform the Court of its results for the summer of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Veldhoven and Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34199-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u25	We think it is important that if we reject such an idea, we also know why we do so. That is why we ask the Minister to identify the advantages and disadvantages. I'll be on the network at sea. The ACM assesses the necessity of investing in our network in a variety of respects and, after deciding to invest, looks at whether these investments are being carried out effectively. There is some uncertainty as to how that is to be found in the legislation when we are talking about the net at sea. In his reply, the Minister mentioned some of that. He says it's actually not a problem. But there's something else in the decision. If, in his view, it is not a problem, we can clarify it in the texts, I ask the Minister. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is also important for the maritime transmission system to assess the need for expansion and replacement investments;]] [[Whereas Article 5.5 (3) of the Electricity and Gas Decision provides that the ACM only demonstrates, in the case of a draft investment plan, the need for the expansion and replacement investments to carry out the system operator's legal tasks in the absence of a transmission system at sea;]] [[calls on the Government, in the Decision, to clarify when and how the ACM also assesses the need for expansion and replacement investments in the maritime transmission system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34199-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u26	We also had some discussion on how to move from a connection obligation to gas towards a connection right to heat. This is still quite difficult to incorporate into legislation. The Minister is also right to say that there are already areas that are connected to heat without a gas network, but it would be nice to make legislative technology more generic and independent. Without prescribing to the Minister how to do that, I would urge him to make an effort. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas dependence on natural gas should be reduced due to the problems of earthquakes in the province of Groningen, harmful greenhouse gas emissions and excessive dependence on unstable countries;]] [[Whereas various options for heating houses should therefore be treated equally;]] [[Whereas the current legislation still provides for a gas connection obligation, allowing exceptions for other options;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider how the legal connection obligation to gas can best be converted into a legal connection right to heat, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34199-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u27	I would also like to point out that the connection right to heat does not mean that it should be a heat network, but that we are looking at the question of how households can meet their heat demand. I would like this to be as technologically independent as possible in the legislation. I wish the Minister much inspiration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u28	Kuch, kuch, kuch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u29	The emotion is becoming too much for you, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u30	Well, the subject isn't easy, I can assure you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u31	No, definitely not. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u32	Mr. Chairman. We listened to the Minister. I share with the D66 Group that we would very much like to hear from the Minister once again the answer to the question as to whether this is really necessary. For the Labour Party, the big question is how employment in Zeeland is now developing. I am not entirely clear what the consequences will actually be. Can the Minister once again address the question of what it means for the people in the public gallery, for the employees of DELTA if that division law is to be enforced in due course? We are in favour of this, but of course the consequences should not be disproportionate. I find the decision we are going to take today very difficult and serious. That requires the utmost care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u33	What is disproportionate according to the PvdA?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u34	If we decide to introduce a law together, as we did here ten years ago, if we allow that law to apply to all companies in the Netherlands, if we decide too early to make an exception for one or two companies, as the SP wants, and if we call for it to save those jobs, then that seems very sympathetic. But that does mean that we, as the administration of this country, are completely unreliable, because we have been fooling all those other companies and all those other people for ten years. They have said: if you continue in the Netherlands for long enough, even though you lose time and time again at the Dutch court, at the European court and at the Supreme Court, if you end up in the Lower House after ten years at the end of the process, then she will settle the matter with an amendment to deal with a legislative proposal that is not really about that. If that's the case, you must have very good reasons. I think the argument of losing all these jobs in Zeeland is very important, but it must be related to the picture I have just outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u35	That is not at all an answer to my question of proportionality. It's not about the Telecommunications Act today, it's about the STROOM Act. Mrs Dik-Faber and other colleagues have already indicated that in an evaluation of this law we can look at what the European results are. It turns out that in countries where this division has not been continued, integrated companies are simply active and that these companies have subsequently become active in our market. As a result, there is no fair playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u36	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u37	What about the proportions of employment in Zeeland? I would like an answer from Mr Vos of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u38	The cabinet, the government of this country, and the Chamber as co-legislator are obliged to have proper administration. That means we don't just change the law for individuals. A law applies to everyone in the Netherlands. I do not think Mrs Mulder's argument about Europe and the level playing field is so strong for several reasons. Firstly, in some European countries these networks are not public at all, but private, so not all European countries are the same. Secondly, some of those companies in the Netherlands, such as RWE-Essent, have more disadvantage from being connected to a German company than they benefit from it. So it's not necessarily the case that you're creating a different playing field. Finally, it is true that every company in the Netherlands, including DELTA and Eneco, is free to seek a partner abroad if it thinks it can benefit from it. The companies are completely free to do so under Dutch law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u39	Mr Vos refers to 2006...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u40	2008.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u41	2008. But it is now 2015. That is seven years later and a lot has happened on the energy market. I remember the motion in the First Chamber, co-signed by Mrs Sylvester of the Labour Party, and I also remember Mr Vos himself saying last year that we might not have to do that split. But now I hear him say that he does not want to prevent the division of these last two companies at the eleventh hour. By the way, the companies that are already split are part of an integrated company. The CEO of this even says that the future is in the integrated business.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u42	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u43	What is the point of Mr Vos? On what basis should the split go on? What makes these arguments so strong that the Labour Party believes that these two companies should be split up?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u44	I always find it fascinating to see the experience here in The Hague, where I have been allowed to speak in this Chamber on behalf of the Labour Party for three years now. I always find it fascinating how parties try to create the image that something has been said, when that has never been said. Mr Smaling knows that I said that I do not think the arguments for the division law, the Won, anno are as strong now as when we introduced that law and that I think they should be reviewed. That's what I did. I gave my final judgment on that, too. After considering everything, I believe that this law should be enforced. The great importance of that law is that consumers in the Netherlands have been given much more freedom of choice. Consumers have also received a different, lower, price. The important thing is also that our public networks are in safe hands, as the production and supply companies are doing so badly. The parties that in the past, when the law came into force, chose to comply with that law, have largely sold their production and supply companies at the right time. The losses that are now being incurred are borne by foreign parties. In that sense things didn't go so badly. The only two companies that are still unsplit for 10 years have said that they do not want to split up. Before that, they went to court, went back to court and went to court again. It's possible. We live in a rule of law. You can fight it. Finally, however, the judge said: I am very sorry, you do not have to do it under European law, but that law is still in force. We must then note that the law also applies to these companies. It is up to the Minister to decide what happens next. I also said that I think it is very important that the jobs in Zeeland should not just disappear. However, jobs do not disappear because a company is cut in half. Jobs disappear because a company...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u45	Shall we try to keep the answer a little concise?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u46	I will try to be brief, but there are so many people in the public gallery for a reason. We've received hundreds of e-mails. So I really want to have an opportunity to explain why I think we should do this and to ask the Minister the questions that are still alive with my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u47	You have that opportunity. However, I would not do that in an interrupting debate. An interruption is intended for a short question and an answer to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u48	Otherwise, you will remove it from my speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u49	I promised some flexibility in that. Mr Smaling, would you like to ask a follow-up question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u50	I want to, but that's gonna be hard when the answer's that long. Things have also been said that we can talk about for a long time. Energy prices without taxes are not substantially different from those of neighbouring countries. So you can question all of that. The question is whether these matters are part of Mr Vos' argument. Eneco and DELTA did, but so did Essent. In the appeal it was even assigned to the companies. So the judiciary has also struggled with this law. Now we are so many years ahead and everything we feared was covered in legislation. There's nothing left to go through with this. The 1,500 to 2,000 people would lose their jobs without any reason and without harming anyone. I really don't understand how you could be there for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u51	The question is, of course, the opposite: why should Eneco and DELTA not comply with the law that has been in force in the Netherlands for ten years? To date, an exception has been made for these companies, but this will not be done anymore. The cabinet bill deals with a number of very different issues, but you are tabling an amendment to save all those jobs. You know that you are creating a false reality, because you also know that we must apply that law to everyone in the Netherlands; otherwise we will have no proper administration in this country. So it's the other way around. If we want to make an exception the way you want to do it, then you must have very good arguments for it. I would like to hear from the Minister what effects he sees on employment in Zeeland. That is the most important point for me and for the Labour Party. However, if a company has known for ten years that it has to comply with legislation and has a loss-making component for ten years, it is up to that company to ensure that the loss-making component becomes profitable. In a profitable business, you don't have to fire people. It is not the case that we are destroying these jobs here, that is a reversal of reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u52	That has been the subject of discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u53	Mr Vos says that you should not change the law for one company and that a loss-making part is the responsibility of management. Then why was Aldel saved at the time? That company did not have a loss-making part, but was in fact bankrupt as a whole. One law was specifically made to save that company. That was the main argument put forward by both the PvdA Group and the VVD Group, I would like to stress to the VVD Group, which is not present at the moment; a separate law for a bankrupt company because of employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u54	Aldel is a clear case. You can make a law for a single company in the Netherlands, but you cannot declare a law applicable to a whole number of companies and make an exception for one or two companies. That is not possible in the Netherlands, in the Netherlands everyone is equal before the law. That is the basic principle of this rule of law. As difficult as that may be, it means that this law also applies to these two companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u55	We've established that you can make a law for a bankrupt company to save jobs. You could also accept an amendment because there are changed circumstances after ten years. For my party, there are more reasons why we should want that, not just because of employment. Theoretically, that could be fine, because it is a similar case to Aldel. The PvdA doesn't choose it in this case and I don't quite understand why.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u56	Mrs Van Tongeren also knows that there was another situation at Aldel. That had to do with the price of electricity, with the infrastructure and with all kinds of other things, and that is why we chose to do so. What we're discussing here is really another story that I've explained to you. For ten years, we have told a number of companies to comply with the law. Some of them did and some of them didn't. You cannot say, if these companies are completely out of business, that I am making an exception for you today. That's not how it works in the Netherlands. I also think that there are good arguments for enforcing the Won, the law that we are talking about. I have explained these arguments and will not repeat them. I did ask the Minister what exactly the consequences are for the people of Zeeland. I hate that those jobs could be lost there. Moreover, I do not know whether this is the case, and the Minister still has to respond to it. It's not our responsibility either. It is our responsibility to make careful legislation and ensure careful governance in this country, with the same laws in force for everyone. In my group, questions have been raised about the prohibition on outsourcing in Article 411 (3). Is it true that the result is that companies such as Joulz and Cofely are no longer allowed to do work for system operators? Can the Minister tell us what the consequences of this are for these companies? How many percent of their turnover will they lose at once and how many jobs will this cost? Are the system operators not too limited in their choice for an installation company? As pointed out earlier, the PvdA Group does not want infrastructure companies to be too limited in their possibilities, and this provision actually does. I have tabled an amendment to remove the new outsourcing ban from the bill. Depending on the Minister's reply, I will decide whether to continue with this amendment. I still have a few motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas employment in Zeeland has been seriously affected in recent years as a result of redundancies at, among others, Thermphos, Zalco, Philip Morris, Neckermann, Morres, the province of Zeeland and the Zeeland hospitals;]] [[Whereas, even in the case of the energy company DELTA, with or without the division of this plant, redundancies and/or relocation of jobs seem inevitable;]] [[Whereas, at the request of the government, the Meijer Commission has presented the report "Trusting in a sustainable future, a strong perspective for North-East Groningen";]] [[calls on the Government to set up a committee with the province of Zeeland with the aim of stimulating the Zeeland economy and thereby the employment of Zeeland, including structural measures, and to report to the Chamber as soon as possible on the progress of the Commission's results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jan Vos and Mr Albert de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34199-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u57	Now, do I understand that Delta must go bankrupt first and then your motion becomes a meaningful motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u58	I object to the way in which this is posted in this Chamber. The Dutch economy has suffered a great deal in recent years as a result of the financial crisis. We have put the country back on the path to growth with great difficulty; the economy is growing again, employment is rising and unemployment is falling. In Groningen there have been heavy blows but also in a number of other provinces in the Netherlands that are a bit further away from the Randstad. In Zeeland there have also been very heavy blows. This may not only happen with Delta now, but, as I said earlier, it has also happened with a number of other companies, on which we have also had an exchange of views before. I think it is very important that this cabinet should take responsibility for looking, as we have done very successfully in Groningen, in Zeeland at ways of boosting the economy there. Do not say that this is for the stage or that this is a tissue for bleeding, because you know that with all these tough measures in the Netherlands we are now making this economy grow again. This is partly due to the international situation, but it is also because of the policy that you have criticised for all these years, but which we can now reap the benefits of. I hope to find you on my side, Mr Smaling, and that you will vote in favour of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u59	I am really stunned, because what Mr Vos says in his entire contribution is that this company needs to be split up and that will go down. And then he comes up with a motion like that. It is really the most cynical motion I have ever heard here. I am surprised that Mr Vos dares to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u60	Mr Vos can still respond if he needs to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u61	These are harsh words from Mr Smaling. Again, I think it is important that we govern the Netherlands in such a way that the law is equal for everyone and that we do not make an exception for some when it suits us politically. I hope that you, Mr Smaling, will work with me to strengthen the economy...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u62	Let's do it through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u63	Through the President: Mr Smaling, I hope you will work with me on these structural measures, however cynical you may think so. If it was all easy, we wouldn't be here talking to all those people in the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u64	The reading of the motion went very quickly, but I think Mr Vos said that there are consequences for employment, whether or not it is split. I was a little surprised because, in my view, the effects on employment are particularly important if we are to split up. Did I get this right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u65	No. I argued last time that, as far as I know, a company creates jobs when it makes profits and grows. A company loses employment if it doesn't grow and shrink. I therefore do not share your view. I think DELTA and Eneco should just have profitable companies, that all their subsidiaries should in principle be profitable in the long term. Then you have a healthy business, a healthy business. Splitting those companies has nothing to do with that in principle, especially if you have had ten years to make such a business business profitable. We are talking about a long term, including the time when you could see the legislation coming. Those companies and their successive owners, managers and directors have thus had time to take measures to prevent this. Maybe that was not possible at all; perhaps the circumstances were so bad that you sometimes haven't been able to do anything about it, but in my view it is primarily a responsibility of the companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u66	It wasn't my point of view. I thought that Mr Vos had written in his motion that there were consequences for employment anyway, whether or not we split up the company. My position is that a choice can be made tonight and at next week's votes. We're passing the law now. Now we can agree whether or not we support the SP amendment. I really do call on the PvdA to support the amendment, because I hear that employment is also a matter for the PvdA. One small comment: I do not think there is a need for a committee, because the province of Zeeland itself already has a lot of plans. Let's work it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u67	Let me begin with that last remark. The motion calls for these plans to be implemented and supported from The Hague in consultation with the province of Zeeland. We simply have more resources and opportunities to do so. The wording in the motion is that redundancies seem inevitable. I cannot entirely judge that myself, so I asked the Minister for a more detailed assessment. Ultimately, it is up to the management of the companies to decide whether or not to move jobs; that is not up to us. I have already noted that you are from the same school as Mr Smaling. You say that the law applies to everyone, and you can defend it, Mr Vos, here in the House of Representatives, but I am from the opposition, so I support such an amendment in such a colorful way and make good decoration with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u68	Mrs Dik is addressed personally, so she can respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u69	I am indeed making this a personal fact. We've talked about the split, and we've legally laid it down. Then we had a certain picture in front of us. However, you must always face up to reality and actuality. The reality is that two companies have been split up and have come directly into the hands of non-divided foreign companies. That has cost jobs and...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u70	This transcends the limits of a personal fact. It is a glowing argument, but a personal fact really relates to the fact that you have been addressed personally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u71	I had started to mention the arguments for...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u72	Yeah, but that's not the point of a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u73	Then I conclude that my group attaches great importance to looking at the past ten years and current events. On the basis of the figures and the facts it has now, it will come to a decision. That has nothing to do with populism, opposition and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u74	That's clear. There is no response to a personal fact either, so I am giving Mrs Mulder the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u75	Mr Vos has just given a number of examples for Zeeland, including Thermphos and Zalco. We from The Hague had less direct influence on this through legislation. We did influence the regulations in Groningen. We all said at that time: this is undesirable and we are not going to do this. This law leads to a great deal of job losses in Zeeland and South Holland, in addition to all the arguments put forward by colleagues today. The CDA Group does not understand why the PvdA Group cannot support Mr Smaling's amendment. Perhaps Mr. Vos would like to explain it to us one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u76	Thermphos was dumping white phosphorus from Kazakhstan. Then we can take action. Anti-dumping measures are possible at European level. That didn't happen. That's a political choice. At Zalco there were energy prices that were high in the Netherlands, higher than in the neighbouring countries, so that the company's competitive position was not good. We could have done something about that. We could have reduced those energy tariffs. Most of the parties, including yours, believe that tariffs should be raised because these companies are already receiving too much subsidies. We did not do that, and that was also a political choice. Today we are talking about DELTA and Eneco, and it is also a political choice whether or not we enforce the law in this way. I am saying that, and I have said this on many occasions, if the law applies to all other companies and legal entities in the Netherlands, it should also apply to these two companies. That is very unfortunate, but it is the reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u77	It is very unfortunate that Mr Vos of the PvdA does not correctly reflect the CDA position. I forgive him for not knowing that completely by heart. It is very painful and sad that you have to go through this division law and turn your back on two companies and then come forward with a motion to promote employment. That doesn't grace the PvdA fraction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u78	The Labour Party's group is not responsible for the management of DELTA and Eneco. The PvdA Group is responsible for the Won, the law that regulates the division of these companies and wants to keep the electricity grids in the Netherlands in public hands. That is what we want to do in order to secure these networks for future generations. We want this because the production and supply companies, with all the fluctuations in the energy market and with all the changes that are taking place now that we are moving on to renewable energy, have become particularly risky companies. This is also apparent from the figures of these companies. Those production and supply companies hang around the neck of the grid companies like a millstone. I think it is a good argument to implement the law. It is not up to us to determine whether or not these companies have employment in Zeeland. It is up to us to make the laws within which these companies can operate. That's a whole different thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u79	Mr Graus then has the floor for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u80	We are members of the States-General, we have the highest office in the Netherlands. We can find something of everything, especially when it comes to a primary need for life as energy. Heat and energy: we can find anything we want. I would like to make the point for the Acts that the SP and PVV have always fought and fought against the division and sale of energy companies to foreign companies. I was an energy spokesperson between 2006 and 2010. We didn't want foreign dependence. We wanted to keep affordability and everything in our own country. I say this because Mr Vos is pretending to be playing political games here, when for years before Mr Vos entered the Chamber, it was the line of the SP and the PVV. I'd like this to go well in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u81	Clear. There's no question. Mr Vos may respond if he wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u82	Mr Graus says he was then energy spokesperson. It's kind of him now, too. He also says something else, namely that he wants to keep everything in his own country. He also says he wants less, less, less Moroccans. Where are they supposed to go?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u83	I have the impression that this is a point that is strange to the order of the sitting. We shouldn't be discussing that here. There are other gremia where that can be more detailed. Mr Graus may ask a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u84	It turns out that Mr Vos has nothing better, because he is picking something out of the old box from a year and a half ago. Here's what I want to say. When it comes to a primary need for life such as energy and heat, everything should have remained in Dutch hands. They're basic necessities for our people. Indeed, the energy company should have remained in its own hands. No split and more, more, more. I dare say that quietly, full of pride.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u85	In fact, you are challenging Mr Vos to respond again. Mr Vos, if you would like to respond, that is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u86	Completely against my nature I fit and read my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the energy transition is increasingly driven by citizens and companies wishing to make individual or collective use of solar energy, wind energy, green gas and sustainable heat;]] [[Whereas this raises new questions for the energy sector as a result of the emergence of local energy systems with decentralised generation, savings and digitisation;]] [[Whereas, in this context, the system operator becomes interested in decentralised congestion management through (access to) storage capacity and flexibility services, as an alternative to traditional network increase;]] [[Whereas decentralisation also raises new questions about investment in and management of solar, wind, gas and heat capacity and about supporting decentralised demand management systems for consumers and industry;]] [[Whereas it is not certain whether commercial operators, who have to work with short payback periods, want or can make long-term investments in these activities, thereby slowing down the energy transition rather than accelerating it;]] [[Whereas infrastructure companies, which, as public enterprises with long-term investments, independently facilitate the energy transition, can or even must play a role in this transition to a sustainable energy supply;]] [[calls on the Minister to carry out a more detailed analysis of the role that infrastructure companies can play in the (accelerating) sustainability of energy supply, and to forward this analysis to the Chamber in the energy report,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister intends to conduct an investigation into flexible and dynamic transport tariffs;]] [[Whereas dynamic tariffs are one of the ways of preventing local congestion, as an alternative to network congestion;]] [[Whereas there are also other options, such as the adjustment and adjustment of decentralised production units, demand response and storage;]] [[calls on the government to include these options, including demand management and market buying-in flexibility, in the investigation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas infrastructure companies can contribute to the energy transition;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with Gasunie, to enable experiments on the construction and management of gas infrastructure contributing to the development of a sustainable energy supply,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the guarantees of origin (CoA) do apply to green electricity, but not yet to grey electricity;]] [[Whereas this is desirable as it makes it clear whether the trade mix consists of atomic, gas, coal or other fossil power;]] [[Whereas this system already exists in other countries and can be integrated into the existing CentiQ system;]] [[expresses the desire to extend the COO system to grey electricity;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, to this end, the implementation issues and costs associated with the introduction of a full disclosure system for energy consumers;]] [[calls on the Government to consult and cooperate with market players and environmental and consumer organisations on this matter;]] [[calls on the Minister to complete the examination of the design of systematics on the main lines in 2016 and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Jan Vos. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34199-51]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jan Vos and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34199-52]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Jan Vos. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34199-53]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Jan Vos and Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34199-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u87	This is quite a fine motion, but there is also an amendment tabled by my group, supported by a number of other parties, to simply regulate this in the law. What is stopping the Labour Party from putting its name under the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u88	I have had a lot of discussions with the parties involved and I have noticed that there are two points on which there is no clarity. The first is that of the costs to these companies. Mrs Dik may think that all this is going to be easy, but it is often the cost of this kind of company that has to fire people at some point. The second point is that it is not entirely clear to these companies how to shape this operationally. That is why I tabled a motion and not an amendment. I want to do this as much as Mrs Dik wants, but I am not going to impose something from The Hague that I cannot fully overlook.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u89	A follow-up question from Mrs Dik.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u90	Now is the time to settle things with each other. If the PvdA wants it as much as we want it, I say to the PvdA: sign the amendment and support us. I have argued that many companies are already tracking data through the CertiQ system. There is already certification. The only ones who don't want that are the coal power stations. The PvdA doesn't want to support the coal power stations, does it? Isn't that the consumer's choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u91	A response from Mr Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u92	I very much appreciate Mrs Dik-Faber's ambition, the way in which she always puts forward her points and the amendments she is tabling. However, I believe that we have a responsibility not simply to confront the companies in question with a legal obligation which may have all kinds of consequences, and that we may soon be back here to talk about decisions which we say may perhaps have been otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u93	Clear. You will continue your speech. You have one more motion, if I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u94	I've seen my clock ticking fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u95	We'll keep a sharp eye on that. You're coming out flawless.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u96	I hope I can still table this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the transition to sustainable energy supply needs to be significantly accelerated in order to meet the climate targets set;]] [[Whereas, in accordance with Articles 5.34 and 5.37 of the draft law, the Government has laid the foundations for the creation of temporary tasks and experimental space which could eventually lead to appropriate legislation and regulations;]] [[Whereas temporary tasks and experimental space are necessary to maintain sufficient flexibility in the uncertainty of future developments, including technological developments;]] [[Whereas temporary tasks and experimental space will make an important contribution to the transition and achievement of climate objectives provided that their implementation provides sufficient scope;]] [[Whereas the underlying General Management Measures have not yet been notified to the Chamber;]] [[calls on the Government to send these General Administrative Measures to the Chamber before 1 January and to ensure that they are formulated in such a way as to remove optimal obstacles that exist today and give real scope to test innovative concepts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Jan Vos. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34199-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u97	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply. Indeed, it makes it easier to follow the 35 amendments. This is clearly a legislative proposal which the Chamber wanted to have a strong debate on because it had a lot of questions about it and for which it has also put forward proposals for improvement. We welcome the frameworks for wind at sea. That won't surprise the Minister. I cannot wait until we can visit the first windmill that will be placed there with the standing committee. GroenLinks wants to reduce gas consumption further. Gas is a fossil fuel. Its extraction causes problems. So the less we use it, the better it is. It is important that the designation of heat areas by the ACM is in line with the fact that municipalities can decide on their own future infrastructure. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that following the introduction of the STROOM Act, areas in which no gas system is (anymore) established and which are exempted from the system operator's obligation to connect may be designated;]] [[noting that the law and implementing arrangements assume that the decisions are taken by the ACM, including the identification of the (gas) system operators themselves;]] [[Whereas it is desirable that decisions of municipalities regarding their own future energy infrastructure should be reflected in the decisions of the ACM;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the decisions of the ACM on the designation of heat areas and the obligation to connect gas system operators are in line with decisions of municipalities on the future infrastructure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34199-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u98	Developments in the energy market are moving fast. We see that electric car batteries are already being used in some countries to store energy. I ask the government to include an experimental article in the law as soon as possible. I'm filing the next motion for this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the law currently prevents consumers from using electric cars as a battery for sustainably generated energy;]] [[calls on the Government to provide, in the short term, an experimental article allowing consumers to use their electric car as a home battery,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34199-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u99	The Minister already announced that the supply and production chapters should be revised in 2017. The experience of the current experiments must be taken into account. I therefore ask the government to forward the evaluation to the Chamber for the next phase of the review of the Electricity and Gas Act. I have a motion on this too. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas sustainable local energy and the participation of small consumers in the electricity market are in full swing;]] [[Whereas local initiatives are currently being experimented with;]] [[calls on the Government to evaluate the functioning of the experimental area and to inform the Chamber of the next amendment of the Electricity and Gas Act about the findings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34199-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u100	Then I have a question. We have been puzzled about it, but we did not get out of reading the answers and looking back on the previous debate. Are there still two suppliers on a WOZ object, and can you combine two connections to one WOZ object with the postcode rose projects? In the second case, if there is a postcode rose on one of the two connections, does the agreement still apply that there are no connection costs for that second connection? I shall now turn to the question of full transparency. The Minister states that he intends to improve the supply and production chapters in the next phase of STROOM, but does not see any added value in a ban on imports of electricity without a certificate, as in that case cheap European guarantees of origin for renewable electricity are purchased, thus using more renewable electricity only on paper. I attach great importance to transparency. I would therefore very much like this to be better worked out and examined. Can the Minister indicate the difference with the current Dutch practice of selling such electricity and with the purchase by the Empire of cheap foreign guarantees of origin to green our own power consumption? So that's what we're doing right now. Does this mean that the Empire is going to change its purchasing policy in this respect? Then I'll come to the hot hanger tonight. As far as I am concerned, spokesmen have also explained very clearly, on behalf of GroenLinks, why you can have a moving insight. In 2007 we voted in very different circumstances and with different expectations for something that we see in 2015 that does not hit the target set. That is why we have co-signed the SP amendment. I very much hope with others that a review is possible. I have already indicated that, not so long ago, we passed a law in the Chamber for one specific company, also on the grounds of employment. I will not repeat the questions of the other spokesmen. I have them in my lines. This will be a pleasure for the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u101	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u102	I'll be at the Borssele nuclear power plant. What happens to that after split? Can the Minister assure the Chamber that the Borssele nuclear power plant will not be in foreign hands? I have a motion on this too. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the division of the future of DELTA as an independent company is at risk and this affects the future of the Borssele nuclear power plant;]] [[calls on the Government to consider the ACM, at least postpone the division of DELTA until there is a solution to the ownership of the Borssele nuclear power plant, and to inform the Chamber about this solution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34199-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u103	Then I have one more question. The decommissioning of nuclear power plants in England and Germany appears to be much more expensive than ever planned. There, too, attempts have been made to save money for it. The German authorities are currently reviewing all the energy companies that have nuclear power plants by checking whether there are sufficient reserves. Can the Minister assure us that there is a view of sufficient financial resources for the Foundation for the Management of Decommissioning Funds at the nuclear power station Borssele and the Guarantee Fund for the Final Storage to pay for the decommissioning? If the Minister gives us a positive answer and says that it will be okay, can the Chamber receive any support? Finally, I come to the producer tariff. The Minister states that the main reason for introducing the producer tariff was the expectation that the Netherlands would become a net exporter of electricity. In practice, this does not go against the Minister's expectations. How can the Minister be sure that the current prediction that the Netherlands is a net importer is correct? Is it not wise to retain this possibility in any case in case the Netherlands becomes a net exporter? For the sake of clarity, I would like to go along with all the comments on the wiring of the Christian Union and on the transparency of the origin of electricity and gas from a number of different spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u104	You mean all of the Christian Union's comments on wiring, I think. Cablering of the Christian Union is something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u105	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister and his people for the answers we have received. A nice and clear overview showed why the Minister was or was not in favour of certain amendments. For the CDA, the most important point in this legal treatment is the division of Eneco and DELTA. Last week, the Minister did not want to talk about the law on independent network management and splits, while the group ban has always been controversial. So now we have the Supreme Court's ruling before us. Despite our questions, last week the Minister hardly addressed the question of proportionality. The rest of the European Union has a safe network without splitting. Then why do we have to do this for safety? And why is a heavy agent like splitting two healthy companies needed? Like many spokesmen before me, I would ask the Minister to be very serious about this today. Because of the split, if it continues, a lot of people are unnecessarily out of a job. By not letting the ban enter into force, the Minister can prevent these people from losing their jobs unnecessarily. I would point out here that the CDA Group is so hard on this, that it is very much considering voting against the law as the Smaling amendment. is not accepted today. We are not reassured by developments. That is why we are putting forward a motion, in line with the motion previously adopted in the Provincial States of Zeeland. Again, the CDA is not for this split. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, the Zeeland region and South Holland and the affected companies to give a period of two years for the separation of the company so that as few jobs as possible are lost, and to support them in this process if they so wish,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34199-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u106	Like my fellow Members, I urge colleagues from the VVD Group and the PvdA Group to reconsider their positions. There are many open ends in the role of the network operator. The system operator may place a battery in a neighborhood in order to prevent network congestion. It is then unclear how this energy can be deposited. How does the Minister view this? The reply showed that the Minister had a study carried out on flexible transport tariffs, including in conjunction with industry. However, this does not take into account other possibilities to prevent network congestion, for example by purchasing flexibility services. That is why we have tabled a motion on this issue together with the PvdA Group. I come to the quarter-hour rates or dynamic rates for consumers. In June 2014, when discussing smart meters, the Minister indicated that they would be possible in 2016 and that he would work on putting the quarter-hour rates into practice. Last week, the Minister suddenly indicated that it would be 2019 and that the smart meters would have rolled out 80%. Frankly, we were a little surprised by that. That is why I am tabling a motion in line with the motion I tabled together with Mr Smaling in 2014. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in the course of 2016 it will be possible to work with smart meter allocation in individual members;]] [[Calls on the Government, in consultation with the sector, to draw up a roadmap by February 2016 to ensure that consumers with smart meters are given the opportunity to conclude contracts on the basis of quarter-hour rates as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34199-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u107	I have also tabled an amendment on wiring. With this amendment, I want the cost of wiring to be charged according to the carrying capacity and length of the wiring line. Mr Van Veldhoven has also added a number of questions. If the amendment is adopted, there will be no mention of the 25% mentioned by the Minister in his response to the amendment. The CDA wants the financial contribution of municipalities to be reasonable. Is the Minister prepared to discuss this in an open discussion with the municipalities? I'd like to get a response to our questions and to D66's questions. In the light of the Minister's reaction to our Amendment No. 32 I changed this. I wonder how the Minister looks at that amended amendment. We hope, of course, that he will be able to give the "judge chamber." The village community in Reduzum would very much like to continue with its village mill. I have also spoken about this in a previous period. In order to help Reduzum further and to ask the Minister to do his best to include these initiators in the experimental clause, I have another motion on this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the village community in Reduzum is engaged with great passion and enthusiasm in the renewal of their village mill for which there is much support;]] [[Whereas the project of the village of Reduzum concerns renewable energy and the acquisition of more practical knowledge as required in the experimental assessment;]] [[Whereas this project can contribute to the knowledge about experiments and to the facilities and community spirit of Reduzum;]] [[calls on the Government, together with the initiators of Reduzum, to examine the extent to which they can make use of the current experimental assessment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34199-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u108	I see that someone is very anxious to ask a question and I am done with my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u109	Mrs. Dik, you'd like to post a third interruption? You may, go ahead!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u110	I really appreciate that. I have a question about the wiring. I have, of course, also seen the Minister's reaction. He says that with this amendment he holds on to the 25% contribution of municipalities. Some municipalities cannot bear it and may therefore pay a little less than 25%, but this has to be paid by other municipalities, which means that this contribution is much higher than 25%. I don't think that's the intention! I would like to hear the reaction of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u111	Mrs Dik rightly notes this. That is why Mr Van Veldhoven and I have just asked additional questions about this, because we also want to know exactly what this is about. I am very curious to hear the Minister's response in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u112	Of course, I am just as curious, but I must also remember the debate we had last week. At that time, I warned the CDA group that we should not bring municipalities into a negotiating position vis-à-vis the Ministry of EZ, because they would really lose out. For this reason, I would once again urge you to consider whether my amendment to assume a fixed contribution of 5% is not the better route. Then we can settle this with each other. Then we do not have to look for an explanation from the Minister or negotiations, but it is clear this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u113	I am quite clear about Dikk's amendment. I'm very curious about the Minister's answers tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u114	I am also very curious about the Minister's answers, but I am also curious about the intention of the CDA to table the motion. Was the intention also that it could be more expensive than that 25% or wasn't that the intention? The Minister interpreted it in his reply in such a way that it is within the scope of the amendment. Was that also the aim of the CDA Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u115	It will never be the CDA's goal to make it all more expensive. I want to be absolutely clear that this is not our objective. However, in the Minister's written response, we see that it has been explained that way. Let me be clear that I am not happy with that. The Minister should give more space to municipalities to look at the different factors on which the use of the wiring depends. In one municipality it weighs more than the other. Last week I indicated that some municipalities might have more to do with this than others. There's got to be room for that. The CDA is a party that puts everything where it belongs. In that sense, I am really waiting for the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u116	Mrs Mulder says: we just need to see what's reasonable, but it shouldn't be more expensive than that 25%. Depending on the Minister's reply, she should therefore look again at which of the various amendments tabled on the wiring that is best covered. In any case, the Minister clearly keeps open the possibility that it may also be more. If that is not the intention, at least one amendment is proposing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u117	We are going to look very closely at all the amendments, both Mrs Dik-Faber's and Mrs Van Veldhoven's.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u118	Mrs Van Veldhoven has already made that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u119	My group has also tried to make a nice amendment on wiring. If the CDA were to choose, without having to look at a political majority to be achieved, does Mrs Mulder not agree with GroenLinks that this is actually the result of a public provision that we all benefit from and whose costs should be turned over to all Dutch people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u120	I have, of course, also seen the amendment tabled by GroenLinks. They choose 100%, so municipalities don't pay any more. If you come from the situation in which the municipalities paid 100%, the minister has actually met the municipalities quite a long way. That can also be said here today. You have to see how heavy that weighs in the various municipalities and what their effect is. I wanted to leave room for that with the amendment I tabled together with Mr Vos. In that we have clearly indicated that the 25% should go down. The Minister's answer raises further questions, which have also been justified today. I await the Minister's answer. However, 100% goes a little too far for me. This must also be taken into account by the municipalities. It's not an automatism that we can just wire everything. We need to look closely at where you do and where you don't. I think that's a healthy consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u121	You must indeed look carefully where you do and do not do so, but it should not be just the bad luck or happiness of a group of inhabitants. A neighborhood or street is always hit. Either they're just sitting in a community that's pretty lame, or they're in a community that's financially incredibly tight. I understand, however, that political reality forces us to say that at least this is better than what we had. Does the CDA agree with GroenLinks that it shouldn't depend on chance if your municipality gets the net, negotiatedly, financially around if you come to live under such a cable?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u122	The CDA is different from GroenLinks, which is why my group will not support this 100% either. At the same time, the Minister makes a good move which reduces the costs for the municipalities. It should be a step further down. I await the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u123	Mr President, I said I was an energy spokesman between 2006 and 2010. Mrs Klever is now spokesperson for energy at the PVV. I'm replacing her today. By the way, I always call her Sucker. She's sick. I wish her well. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that the energy position creates many problems for which this bill does not yet provide a solution. The Minister has written that he will take the protection of consumers from the price peaks in the future energy system in the next part of STROOM. That is why I am holding a motion for a resolution on this matter. However, this legislative proposal gives the Authority Consumer & Market the power to stop connecting existing districts to gas. Of course there is something to be said for that, especially after the earthquakes in Groningen. There was another earthquake last week. However, as long as this is not properly regulated, there is a risk that residents will be hunted at unexpectedly high costs. The Party for Freedom finds that irresponsible. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the draft Decision designates the ACM to also determine whether its renewal is desirable for existing gas connections or to switch to a heat grid or all-electric connection;]] [[Whereas the Minister leaves the cost settlement to municipalities, network operators and residents;]] [[noting that this does not guarantee full compensation for the conversion of their previously gas-connected housing;]] [[calls on the Government to assume its responsibility and to define the cost distribution if existing homes with gas connections are designated as homes with a heat grid or all-electric connection and to ensure that the property owner is not unduly hunted for costs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Klever. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34199-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u124	The motion refers to "all electric." Sorry, Chairman, but that's what it's called. I know you don't like all those foreign words in Dutch motions either, but that's what it's called.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u125	We'll all wear it bravely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u126	I just walked to the employee of Reinette Klever with the question whether we really couldn't make anything else out of it, but this is just the professional jargon. Mrs Klever also asked a question about the energy exchanges in the first term. In order to avoid further legal proceedings, it seems useful to us if there is to be an answer to that question. I therefore hope that the Minister will answer that question. I know he's often as rigid as a sea container, but if I ask him very nicely and neatly, he might want to give me an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u127	I'd limit it to asking "very sympathetically."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u128	Look, there can be a laugh with the Minister. So I did it again after all. Furthermore, the treatment of this bill is of course mainly about splitting DELTA and Eneco, and the loss of about 1,800 jobs. Together with Prof. Smaling of the Socialist Party, the PVV has worked hard on this matter in recent weeks and months. But I also did it myself, in the past as an energy spokesman. Both the Socialist Party and the Party for Freedom have been consistently opposed to splitting. We've always been against that. So we are not really playing a political game with that, as Mr Vos of the PvdA just said. These are just the facts and this is bound to be in the Acts. I've never played a game before, and as long as I've known him, Mr. Smaling hasn't done that either. It is unnecessary to destroy these beautiful companies and make them a prey for foreign, undivided competitors. It doesn't have to be from the EU. It is not necessary for the transition to renewable energy that the cabinet wants. There is also no need to allow more competition. Moreover, it is inconsistent if we demand division of DELTA and Eneco, but at the same time open the door to cross-participants with undivided foreign parties at TenneT and Gasunie. I therefore appeal all the more to the PvdA in particular. I see that Mr Vos of the PvdA is not in the Chamber right now. He's probably just getting a stuffed cake. That's too bad. Ah, there he is. I particularly call on Mr Vos to support Professor Smaling's amendment, which was also signed by my colleague Reinette Klever. At the VVD people laugh, I say to Mr Vos. His party's gonna have a look at it in a minute. The PvdA will have it checked in a minute. Do something for the supporters, including the people who are here! What happened to the "A" of Labour at the PvdA? I really appeal to Mr Vos to support that sympathetic amendment. Thank you very much, Mr President. A blessed evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u129	Mr. Chairman. Everyone wants to stoke and cook, a hot shower, hot food and a warm house. They can't be out of our daily lives. But Eneco's CEO said it: the energy world will shake on its foundations for the next twenty years. The STROOM Act will shape the changing energy market, which will be completely different in ten years' time. How do we not know, but that there will then be another Law STROOM discussed is clear. For today, I thank the Minister for the answers and the examination of the amendments in writing. That helps. We welcome the bill. We can certainly continue with that. That gives clues for the future. Then I'll come to the fork. I regret that every time you get the stigma that you're against jobs when you're in favour of splitting up, and that you're in favour of jobs when you're against splitting up, because it's not true. It's pertinently not true. If we listen to trade unions FNV and CNV, then we hear that they have reservations about the numbers mentioned. But with all due respect, if you say as CEO of DELTA "I know; there are 800, but I'm not gonna tell you what's going on," you'll end up in the list of CEOs like Lehman Brothers, who said Greece was fine, and that of Volkswagen, who said his Volkswagen is economical and does fine in terms of emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u130	That calls for an interruption by Mrs Van Tongeren, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u131	I have a point of order. We in the House always have the custom that people who cannot defend themselves here in the Chamber are not personally attacked. I really don't think I can picture the CEO of Eneco in this way. They're having a hard time out there. So I would very much like Mr Bosman to take back his words in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u132	I take back my words immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u133	I think it's right to ask. It is not often that a speaker gets applause from the gallery. This has to do with the fact that the Rules of Procedure do not allow any endorsement or rejection. I really need to ask you to leave that out. Thank you very much for your kind cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u134	It concerns the preservation of jobs, the preservation of jobs in the future, future-proof jobs. DELTA and Eneco have known since 2006 that there has to be a split. However, they have chosen the path of litigation and lost it to the Supreme Court. To this day, the moment the ACM has to maintain, for almost ten years DELTA and Eneco have counted themselves rich. What we now have to take into account is the concerns of the workers. Last week we received and spoke to a large part of the staff here on the Square. Those concerns are great. It is therefore of the utmost importance that we take the next steps towards splitting up the two companies carefully. There are a lot of interests. Certainly at DELTA we see the position of nuclear power stations as a unique fact, but also the concerns about employment in Zeeland need attention. The VVD looks at the preservation of future-proof jobs when split up, because they are there. And there are plenty of them, but every time we focus on what we lose, we lose what we want to keep. Maybe we should all take a moment to think about that. I would therefore ask the Minister to have a good answer to both of the concerns I have just raised. Then I'll come to another subject. The possibility for system operators to disclose information on energy saving options to prevent costly investments in capacity increase is also a step in the right direction for the VVD to achieve more energy savings. If there is no such possibility, the VVD provides for expensive copper slices to be put into the ground, while this could have been achieved with energy savings. Finally, I would like to make two motions, partly on behalf of my colleague Jan Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u135	There is an interruption by Mrs Mulder, her third.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u136	It seems that the VVD group will support the Minister's proposal and the law. That's why I just filed a motion. It is in line with the motion that was tabled earlier in Zeeland. Is the VVD prepared to support this motion as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u137	There are a number of things in it that you have to be very reluctant about. For example, there is a specific deadline in it, and that is not what we are talking about. That's why I think you should be cautious. I shall be tabling a motion myself in a few minutes' time, which will be about the same. I do not think that you can set a deadline because the ACM has its own responsibility here. I think that it is already acting very neatly, because it could have enforced the law and that has not been done so far. In view of this space, I believe that care should be taken. I do not think it is right and unwise for the House of Representatives to set a deadline for this, because I do not think she is in a position to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u138	But does the VVD think it is possible to give the two-year period as a direction? Then we can leave it to the ACM if she wants to spend so much time on it herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u139	Every direction we give, I find unwise. I also think it is essential that both companies can come up with solutions as soon as possible. I hope that the various scenarios were already available and ready and that they are now working on them as quickly as possible. This makes it clear. It is also good to note that there are future-proof jobs. The fact that this is published as soon as possible is also good for the staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u140	I give the floor to Mrs Van Tongeren for her third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u141	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, but I still have to post that third interruption. I heard Mr Bosman say that he was also concerned about the position of the Borssele nuclear power station. Does Mr Bosman agree with GroenLinks that the plant should remain in Dutch hands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u142	I think 30% of that power plant is already in German hands, in this case RWE. I think it is wise for the Netherlands to hold a majority stake in Borssele. An agreement has been made on this and I believe that it has been confirmed by the Minister. However, we should not pretend that the nuclear power plant is entirely in Dutch hands, because it is 30% in German hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u143	It is true that we still have a majority stake, but a letter from Minister Verhagen, who was sent to the Chamber in my first period, states that resale of those shares can only be blocked if public policy, security or public health are at stake. Does the VVD also consider it acceptable for Borssele's shares to be sold to Russia or Saudi Arabia, and that they should then guarantee public order, public health and security?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u144	I am not talking about Russia's or other countries' dealings with their nuclear power stations. Should it be proposed to reject the shares, the Minister must judge them. It seems to me that it will certainly be discussed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u145	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u146	I'm filing two more motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u147	Perhaps Mr Smaling would like to begin with another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u148	Mr Bosman does not agree on this point, but it does not matter. Sometimes we agree and then we laugh at each other, but the VVD position surprises me anyway. If I understand correctly, Mr Bosman thinks that Eneco and DELTA should already have plans in place. But you can already predict that the credit rating of these companies will fall after the split and then it will be a huge job to stay on track, if that is possible at all. The hijackers on the coast are mega companies that are already active in the Netherlands, with nets abroad. This split is a huge headline on European policy. I don't think it's appropriate for the VVD to be in favour of that. Why is that the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u149	There is no question of a headline on European policy; it is Dutch legislation. We also represent the consumer and the Zeeland energy customers. It is essential to know what the energy price is. How exactly does it work in the company? How do we know for sure what price is real? I would just like to mention that last spring the ACM had to give an indication, because the network company had granted a loan to the group. I'm getting signals that the network losses are not being put on the market, but are being resolved within the group. So that gives a completely different view of price development. The consumer should have known that. Maybe the shareholder should have known, too. It might have led to a different price level. The protection of consumers is therefore also of benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u150	The things mentioned by Mr Bosman are all laid down by law. Both in the old laws and in STROOM you can find all kinds of articles with paragraph No. So much to point out that what Mr Bosman has just mentioned is regulated. If things are not going well, there is either the ACM or the Minister to intervene. Everything we've been worried about in the middle of years is covered. Perhaps Mr Bosman was more concerned about it than the SP. If you add those things together, I wonder what the hell reason is left to get those two companies into the abyss. Especially from the VVD, I don't get it. These are strong Dutch companies with potential, especially in the sustainable segment. That's where we want to go, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u151	Mr Smaling talks about "hunting the abyss." He also needs to see that companies evolve, change, and adapt to time. That's what we see in a lot of companies. It doesn't matter if it's an energy company, a car company or a port company. A company evolves, changes. If you stick to what we saw 10, 20 or 30 years ago as a company, you block the corridor to the future. You need to see how you can keep companies and certainly jobs for Zeeland. I am truly convinced that it is a great risk to employment if we allow DELTA to exist as a group. If the company is split, we have the greatest chance of maintaining the most employment for Zeeland. That's what I'm convinced of, and that's what I stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u152	Apart from the question of how different parties believe that employment in Zeeland can best be assured, what does Mr Bosman think of the Minister's refusal to respond to certain questions put by Members of Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u153	I do not judge the Minister, the Minister is about his own answers. I think that's very sensible. The Minister answers the questions as he does, and that is his right. If Members of Parliament have any further questions, they can ask them at any time. They can ask written questions about it, debate it or hold an AO. All these things are at our disposal, but the Minister is talking about his answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u154	I would like to put another question to Mr Bosman, because he too is talking about his own answers. Can he explain why the need to use this medicine is still there at the moment? What does he think of the guarantees in the law and why does he not consider them sufficient?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u155	As I have just said, we see that companies do not really internalise these guarantees; they do not really use them. The crosspollination is there and is still taking place, but I'm worried. The split between a network and an energy company is essential, also for DELTA, because I am concerned about the future of the energy company. Energy companies are changing. When I look at what happened in the past, from that perspective, I see an energy company pulling parts in and putting it under water. That is for me, especially as far as DELTA is concerned, reason to continue to split up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u156	Mr Bosman continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u157	I have one more question. I didn't interrupt much tonight. May I ask a second question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u158	This was the second one, so this will be your third.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u159	Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u160	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u161	Fantastic. I would like to return to Mr Bosman's reply. He actually says that we do have legislation, but that it is not waterproof enough or that it is not sufficiently enforced. He says it's a bit messed up too, so isn't it also a matter of maintaining the separation of network activities and other activities? Or is splitting really the only solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u162	For me, a split is the best solution right now. I have a good ally in that. Mr Brinkhorst recently thought it was a good idea and an important point to continue with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u163	D66 fully supports the objectives of the Splitting Act. I am sure that Mr Brinkhorst, the former Minister for Economic Affairs, still fully supports these objectives. The only question is whether at the moment that means of division is necessary to achieve the goals. In my first term, I warned you not to confuse it. I hear Mr Bosman saying that companies do not implement the legislation properly, there are still some problems in the implementation of the legislation that this separation should bring about. In my first term, and just now, I mentioned a number of examples of safeguards which, without implementing the Won, should ensure the protection of the network, even though the holding company has other activities. Where does Mr Bosman see this legislation going wrong, what is the gap in it that can only be closed under the Won by implementing the Splitting Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u164	If the energy company is going to lose that kind of money, the whole company will lose it. I am very concerned about that, and that is the most important point for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u165	Mr Bosman continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u166	With the filing of two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that system operators are responsible for connecting homes and offices to the national energy network;]] [[Whereas energy needs are peaks and declines;]] [[Whereas the energy needs of households will increase more and more in the coming years;]] [[Whereas increasing the capacity of networks can generate socially undesirable costs;]] [[Considering that consumers and businesses are more confident and confident that their investments in energy saving will deliver real money if the advice comes from an independent party;]] [[noting that system operators have an insight into where energy savings may be viable in relation to the prevention of network congestion;]] [[calls on the Government to regulate, by AMvB, that system operators may disclose information on energy savings options to prevent costly investments in capacity increase,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Independent Network Management Act was adopted on 21 November 2006;]] [[noting that the Supreme Court has recently ruled that the law on independent network management is not contrary to European law;]] [[Whereas there is broad concern about the potential job losses in both energy companies;]] [[Whereas 70% of the Borssele nuclear power plant is owned by an unsplit energy company at present;]] [[invites the Government to consult with the ACM in order to exercise due diligence in the implementation of the Independent Network Management Act and in particular to respect the position of the Borssele nuclear power plant,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bosman and Mr Jan Vos. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34199-65]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bosman and Mr Jan Vos. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34199-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u167	Minister, perhaps it would be a good idea if you first indicated which stages will be followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u168	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the opportunity to put things in order in my second term. A large number of motions have been tabled and a large number of amendments have already been tabled. Some additional amendments have been tabled. A lot of questions have been asked. I shall first deal with the question of division. I shall then turn to the various questions raised by the spokesmen. Then I will give some more information on some of the amendments and I will deal with the two new amendments. Finally, I would like to comment on the motions. There's a lot of things going on. Moreover, the spokesperson also occasionally commits interruptions, which may lead to a bit of a mix-up, but I will try to keep everything separate. We'll see how far we can get together; I think a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u169	For the sake of clarity, I would like to say to the spokesmen that in principle we agreed on two interruptions per person. I ask them to keep the interruptions compact, then they deserve a third opportunity to interrupt. We want to try to shape it this way: basically two interruptions, in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u170	First of all, I would like to say something about the Independent Network Management Act and the question of division, which various spokesmen have raised. The amended amendment - Smaling c.s. in piece No. 25 focuses on this. What exactly is the status of the Act independent grid management in relation to the Electricity Act 1998 and the Gas Act and in relation to what we are doing now, namely replacing both laws with a new law? The Independent Law Management Act has never been a separate, independent, stand-alone law. It was an amendment to the Electricity Act 1998 and to the Gas Act then in force. At that time, a number of provisions were included in the Electricity Act 1998 and the Gas Act which dealt with two things. Firstly, it was agreed that the networks should be in public hands and, secondly, that they should not be part of a group in which supply and production activities are carried out. This was the amendment of the Electricity Act 1998 and the Gas Act, which was implemented independently by the Act. The provisions of the Independent Network Management Act, which amends the two above-mentioned laws, are now being incorporated into this bill, simply because that law came into force in 2008 and was also maintained by the Supreme Court. That's the law. So if you replace the entire Electricity Act 1998 and the Gas Act with a completely new law, you also take over the provisions that were introduced by the Law independent grid management at the time. So nothing new or additional is happening here with regard to division. What was established at the time by the legislator, what came into force and what remained at the Supreme Court, is now simply incorporated into this. That is the status of the Law independent grid management in relation to those two old laws and the new law, which is at issue today. There's been a group ban since 2008. That is clear when you look at the vast majority of companies. All but two of them complied with the group ban. The situation envisaged by the legislator has thus also entered into force. However, two companies do not comply with the group ban. They make use of their legal possibilities. They've done it all the way to the Supreme Court. In the end, the law remained in place there. The appeal brought by DELTA and Eneco against the law did not lead to the outcome they wanted and thus the law remained in force. That law now also applies to DELTA and Eneco. They're breaking that law right now. What DELTA is now asking for is to amend the law so that it can continue to exist as an integrated company. That is what Mr Smaling has put in his amendment. We need to talk about the situation that will arise if the amendment is adopted. I will deal with this later. It's good to see what we're trying to do with the law. First of all, we want to regulate the infrastructure for wind at sea. Furthermore, we ensure that the infrastructure needed to have the desired capacity is provided in good time for wind on land. We ensure that system operators make the investment plans necessary to achieve all these ambitions and to be able to absorb the flow generated there. We also take care of the smaller sustainable producers, for example the farmers who provide biogas. We also ensure that those who use the reduced rate energy tax scheme, which is referred to by the Chamber as a postcode rose scheme, can put the electricity they produce on the grid that is in public hands without having to pay for it. We also create space for experiments. There are all kinds of things that we cannot yet see, but which may be desirable. We need a broader experimental clause for this than there is at present. This law offers the opportunity to come up with an AMvB and make possible all kinds of experiments that could be good for the future. That is the purpose of this law. I will deal with the employment aspects in detail later, as a number of Members of the European Parliament have called for, in particular Mr Vos. I will deal with the effects on sustainability and on the nuclear power plant. It is good to first indicate the effect of the Smaling c.s amendment. adopted. The effect is that you get a very uneven playing field, a very illogical playing field. He proposed that the group ban should not apply to Eneco and DELTA. He proposed that the provision on the networks to remain in public hands should remain in force. Then you get the situation that the nets that are currently in public hands, such as Enexis and Alliander, have the opportunity to also engage in supply and production. They can set up wind farms, they can take over existing coal plants if they want and they can take over gas plants. They can do anything. Because they are in public hands, they are allowed to do both networks and supply and production. Nuon and Essent are not in public hands and are therefore not allowed to buy networks. They should not have nets because they are not in public hands. So you get the situation that the company Nuon may do production and delivery, but no nets, as well as the company Essent. The company Enexis is allowed to put in nets, in production and in delivery, and Alliander is allowed to do so. Then you get a completely illogical situation. That is the first objection to the amendment. The second objection is as follows. After many years of discussion between the minister and the field, discussion within the field, discussion between the First and Second Chambers and discussion between the government and the First and Second Chambers, it is said: we want in that changing market, where you get competition on production and delivery and where you run risks of production and delivery, in all circumstances that keep nets out of it. We do not want to take any more risks there. The very best way to do that is to keep those nets completely in public hands and outside the group where the production and delivery is. That choice has been made. If we adopt that amendment, we will let it go. This will undermine the situation which we have deliberately pursued, which has been laid down by law and which I am convinced is good for our country, for the customers of electricity, and we will prevent them from paying too much for electricity and for the development of the market. That situation will then be undermined. Mr Smaling says that we have settled matters in decisions, so that there are no risks in terms of supply and production if things go wrong with the networks. This must not be used on the nets; it must not be called into question. We have indeed settled this in decisions, but we are dependent on monitoring to ensure that those decisions are actually complied with. It is conceivable that we have seen this before with the Port Company in Rotterdam, for example, that there are signatures that the shareholder and also the supervisor do not know about. In theory, this could also happen in this case. It may be that something is not allowed to happen on the basis of a decision, but that it is. Due to the fact that the different companies are in a holding company together, they are separate legal entities, but they are in a holding company together, through the holding company, they transfer the risk from one company to another. Those are risks you're taking. At the time, the legislator chose to rule out these risks altogether, by providing that the networks should not be part of a group which includes production and supply. That was one of the considerations at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u171	I'm trying to follow the reasoning. The Minister tries to rule out any possible problem, but if within a holding company a manager can conclude contracts that should not be concluded, that can also happen with someone who becomes the CEO of a network operator. In fact, the Minister's argument is that all networks should be nationalized in order to eliminate all risks. A port operator could also be part of the network management.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u172	If you've kept those grid companies completely separate, they're not part of a group in which the production and delivery are included, you've minimized the risk. That's what you can do as a legislator to the maximum. If you don't, a grid company could be in a group together with a production company and a supply company. If problems arise in a situation of problems and stress, weird things can happen. After all, it is part of a holding company. The holding structure implies that in certain circumstances risks from one legal person may pass on to another legal person. The legislator said at the time that the networks should be optimally secured in all circumstances and that risks, both large and small, should not arise. We can do that through the group ban. I believe that this is still the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u173	If the Minister wants to completely rule out the risk of a CEO signing wrong, fraudulent, unfair contracts, he should think of nationalising. The risk is properly covered in current legislation, but you cannot guarantee 100% for all CEOs of all companies. If the minister does, he'll have to nationalize. Otherwise, it is not an argument to say: I do not want that holding company, because there could be fraud in the future and in order to avoid that, I will split up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u174	If you want to exclude every risk for every CEO, you have to nationalise everything in the Netherlands. This has been tried for some time in the Communist East of Europe, but it has been found that this does not work in any way. We can do the best we can. If we have something to say as the owner of shares or as the body that makes laws, we can say that we do not want the networks to be part of a group or a holding company, because there can be risks there if wrong things happen. In order to eliminate this risk as far as possible and to do the best we can, we decided at the time that this was maintained at the Supreme Court that, in addition to the obligation that the networks should be in public hands, it is not allowed to include those networks in a group which includes supply and production.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u175	I thank the Minister for his answer on this point. I have a small question about it. Article 10 (9) of the 1998 Electricity Act states that network companies must be independent legal entities, including within a holding company. This virtually excludes the possibility of providing security for debts of other companies. What's the hole the minister's still afraid of? I understood that in the fictitious event of Eneco's bankruptcy, Stedin's assets would not fall in there. It is therefore not possible to rely on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u176	The risk is that compliance with decisions should be maintained through inspection. You then have to make sure that whatever you have in those decisions happens. If that doesn't happen, you're in a group with each other. Suddenly there is a big problem and I don't know what to do. There may then be a temptation to make use of those possibilities that are not allowed. You can still try to use them within such a holding company or group. This puts the networks at risk. At the time, it was chosen to do the maximum to rule out these risks. You do not do this with a provision in a decision or in a law that must be implemented afterwards through control and inspection, but by making a choice of principle. The Independent Network Management Act made a basic choice that I believe is very future-proof. I would like to say a little more about this, but this may not be appropriate in order to respond directly to Mrs Van Veldhoven's interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u177	So the Minister is actually saying: we have made a law whereby, if you want to implement it without that group ban, much more inspection is needed. Enforcement will then become much more labour-intensive. That is not impossible, but the Minister actually says that the practice will become unworkable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u178	At the time, the legislator chose to do the maximum to rule out risks. The maximum you can do is take things apart and make sure that the legal entities are not in one holding company. That way you don't actually run a risk of going wrong. I think that we made a choice of principle which was sensible at the time and which is still sensible today. I think he's actually only got wiser. A situation is outlined for other countries. It is said that they have integrated companies, such as Vattenfall in Sweden and RWE in Germany, and that is the future. However, there are major problems with production and delivery. Nuclear power stations must be shut down at their own expense. Coal and lignite plants are under pressure. These integrated companies are at great risk as a result of production and supply. In those other countries, these risks are also reflected in the network component. Here in the Netherlands, we have done this differently. That is indeed different from the situation in other European countries. However, I believe that this has been a sensible choice. It is not a headline on top of a European directive. It indicates that there are three possible systems. The Netherlands has opted for one of these three systems. That choice is set out independently in our Net Management Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u179	The Minister has not yet continued his speech, as Mr Smaling would like to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u180	Suppose the split continues and what remains of DELTA and Eneco is purchased by Vattenfall or RWE. You then have a large energy market nationwide that maintains a business model that as far as the minister is concerned is the model of the future. Why doesn't the Minister see that, if he continues to do this, there will be more of what he doesn't aspire to?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u181	I don't understand. Production and supply are currently at great risk because of our shared ambition, not only in the Netherlands but also in other countries. As far as I am concerned, the ambition is to make a transition from fossil to renewable energy. I hope that this is the ambition throughout the world. This means that what you have already invested in fossil energy is quickly becoming less valuable, and that you have to invest a lot in renewable energy to stay in the market. So you lose money on the one hand, and you need a lot of money on the other. These are the problems faced by production and supply companies. At the time, we said that we did not want to run risks with the network companies. However, the risks incurred by network companies, as part of an integrated whole, are greater than had been estimated at the time. The reasons we had to adopt the Act independently are now even more applicable and have even more power than before.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u182	When it comes to focusing on sustainability, would it really improve if you had headquarters in Stockholm and Essen and no longer in Rotterdam and Middelburg? Given all the legislation that already exists in STROOM and in old laws, where the network companies are all actually covered by the same regime for Enexis and Alliander, the same actually applies as for Stedin and DELTA Networking Company, I cannot understand why the minister still sees so much benefit in a law that has such a turbulent history. Now that these two laws are being abolished and are going up in STROOM, isn't it so strange that the Chamber is taking advantage of this moment to raise this issue? Apart from filing own-initiative laws, we do not have much opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u183	I didn't say the Chamber does anything crazy. I'm just saying that if the Chamber decided to waive what was laid down in the Independent Network Management Act, you'd get the situation that Enexis and Alliander could become integrated companies and NUON and Essent couldn't because they're not in public hands. You'll have a very strange situation in the Netherlands. You stand up for the interests of two companies because you do not think there should be an unequal situation, but you create a new situation that will create an even more unequal playing field and also an artificially changing playing field. The adoption of the amendment leads to a new situation which is strange and also undesirable, because what we wanted to achieve independently through the Law has proved to be even more important than we thought at the time. Then I come to the point of sustainability, Mr Smaling's second point. With all due respect for Eneco and DELTA, Eneco certainly has a name to uphold.It is not the case that the transition to sustainability and sustainable energy depends on Eneco and DELTA. Things are going on anyway. We're going to make that transition from fossil energy to renewable energy. The companies owned by European groups and which are not in the hands of public authorities, such as Essent and NUON, also invest in renewable energy. All these major investments in renewable energy, such as the five large coastal parks, are made by consortia. If a party like Eneco or DELTA falls out, there are other parties that take over or new parties that join. With respect to Eneco and DELTA, it is therefore not the case that sustainability will not continue if they comply with the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u184	Mr Van Veldhoven just referred to the Electricity Act, Article 4, which is also included in STROOM and which states that the network operator is a separate legal entity. In the event of bankruptcy, this cannot be passed on to the system operator. The Financial Management Decision also includes agreements on solvency requirements and liquidity requirements. So we have built many guarantees into our laws and regulations, which means that potential risks cannot be left on the holding company as a whole. Does the Minister still want to reflect on that again? We have enough guarantees in two important areas, so that the Minister's fears may be unfounded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u185	If you impose solvency and liquidity requirements on network companies, that does not mean that those network companies cannot be dragged into a problem where the holding company ends up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u186	In the event of bankruptcy, we must of course look at all the guarantees that we have incorporated into legislation and regulations. A curator will have to be aware of that. Moreover, in practice, not only the energy companies take risks, but also the network companies. I ask the Minister what the difference is. Why the fear of one side of the story and not of the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u187	The fact that a curator will have to take account of something is not something the legislator wants to be dependent on. We do not want all the legal persons of that holding company to be dragged into it if the holding company finds themselves in a problem. We do not want cross-responsibility and cross-guarantees to exist in violation of the rules. We want to exclude all risks with the nets. Mrs Dik says that network operators must also be at risk, but these risks relate only to those networks. They need to assess the networks needed in the future to meet all electricity and gas supply and demand. They must make investments in this direction. Of course you can misjudge things, but that only concerns those nets. If you get risks on the supply and production side besides those nets, then you run a lot more risks on those nets. We want the market to work on production and supply, but in order to do so, we want to keep the networks in government hands so that we can guarantee access and the purchase of these networks for everyone. Moreover, we do not want these nets to be dragged along in any way if problems arise in the market. That is the basic choice that has been made. I still think it's a wise choice. If we were to do what the Smaling amendment asks, you would have the strange situation that I have just described. That strange situation is that Nuon, Essent, but also the Dutch Energy Society and other companies that are not in government hands are only allowed to provide production and supply, while companies that are in government hands are allowed to do anything, from networks to production and delivery. So we're gonna have a weird situation. With the amendment, you will throw away the acquired of the law independent network management and you will run risks for the nets. You weaken the base under market forces and create an uneven playing field. Those are the reasons why I recommend to the Chamber that the amendment on item No. Mr Smaling. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Smaling for his excellent report. I would advise against that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u188	That leads to an interruption by Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u189	I would like to thank the Minister for really taking up the arguments he has put forward in order to pursue the division. The CDA is not convinced by it, by the way. The Minister says that there is a risk that the two non-divided companies in the Netherlands will buy nets, but there is also something like a privatisation ban. What are the chances he's gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u190	I can't see that. I can only conclude that we are creating a situation in which companies which are in government hands, in the hands of the municipality of Rotterdam, the province of South Holland or the province of Zeeland, are free to operate. They can do whatever they want. Alliander and Enexis are allowed to do production and delivery. We are creating that possibility with that amendment. The possibility to become such an integrated company is closed for NUON, Essent, Dutch Energy Society and other companies. So you deliberately create an uneven playing field as a legislator.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u191	A follow-up question from Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u192	What is the Minister's view of the risks of what has been outlined today by the Minister? That is what I want to know, because we have to consider this with each other. I am not yet convinced that it would be a very serious risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u193	This risk depends on the decision-making of the shareholders and thus of the provincial and municipal authorities. What they do again depends on the results of the Provincial State elections and the municipal elections. So I'm not sure what that's gonna be. Nor do I know exactly what it is going to be about the risks, no matter how big or small they are, when a network company that is part of a holding company is not allowed to do certain things but does. What is the real risk of being dragged along in a problem of the holding company as a whole? I don't know how big or small the risks are. I do know they exist. They're here. We have chosen to keep our gas and electricity networks, which are very good in the Netherlands, in government hands and in no way allow them to be dragged into a production and supply problem. I think that has been a wise choice. At the time, this choice was made with the support of the CDA, both the First Chamber and the Second Chamber as well as various directors, various cabinets of which the CDA was a member. That choice was made then, and I believe that the arguments that were used at the time are unabated. In fact, I think they are at present more effective than they were at the time, as a result of the changed situation in the energy market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u194	That leads to Mr Smaling's second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u195	I still have questions when I listen to the Minister. In view of the articles of law on this issue, there is a fear that the networks will be drawn along if production and supply are in difficulty. This is because the system operator is a separate legal entity within the group, because the assets of the system operator are separate from the assets of the holding company and because the Financial Management Decision imposes solvency and liquidity requirements on the system operator. Actually, everything's sealed off. Everything that was intended in 2006 is now well protected by law. I can now hear the Minister say that we have a problem if such a group with networks and production and supply companies does not comply with the law. Of course, it is very strange to assume that companies will not comply with the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u196	Does the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u197	No, Mr President, because it can happen, and it happens that companies do not comply with the law. In a holding company's problem, all separate legal entities within the holding company may be dragged along, depending on how precise the conduct has been between themselves. If you impose liquidity and solvency requirements on a network company, that does not mean that the network company cannot be dragged into such a problem of the holding company. Those are all things that were considered at the time. We did not have to impose this ban at the time, but we have been thinking about it for years. There has even been an initiative from the Chamber. Several Cabinets have been working on it. The case has been postponed again. At the end of the day, a new cabinet came up with the proposal to introduce it completely, and from 2008 it will all be in force. Since then, the whole transition to renewable energy has started. We see all around us that the production and supply companies are at great risk. At a time like this, are we going to reverse what we did at the time? That is very strange, especially if it also deliberately creates an uneven playing field. For these reasons, I cannot help but dissuade the amendment tabled by Mr Smaling; I am sorry for Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u198	You can turn it around. This is a law with a turbulent past. There was the brutality of the First Chamber because of the motion-Doek c.s. was not carried out. There have been three court cases, where the appeal stood out on the side of the companies; that does indicate how the judiciary struggled with this law. There is also a growing understanding that in 2015 we are faced with a substantially different situation than in 2006. That should be a lot of ammunition for the Minister to say: it has served his purpose, but we are moving on in a different way now. Last week there was a page in the newspaper with a lot of signatories who are CEO, with whom the minister probably eats a bitterball regularly. Are they so stupid and is the minister so smart? How am I supposed to see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u199	I don't know much about laws that have been drafted so carefully. This started in 2001, when there was a motion from the Chamber that called on the cabinet to implement that split and that group ban. That was then worked on. In the end, after five years of preparation, this law came into force in 2006. At that time, independent grid management was implemented, but group management has not yet been implemented. Two years later, under a next cabinet, it was decided to do so anyway. Parliament has also agreed to this. That became a law, which had been in force since 2008. Then there was a legal procedure on which the Supreme Court finally expressed itself in the highest instance. It has decreed that that law will remain in force. That means that that law is currently in force for Eneco and DELTA. It would be very strange to reverse such a carefully drawn-up law, which has remained at the highest level in the Supreme Court, while the considerations that were at the time in 2001, 2006 and 2008 are currently highly applicable due to the transition to renewable energy and the risks posed by the production and supply companies. It would be very strange to reverse the case. Then there would be a wonderful situation. Now there is a law that has been carefully established. If we were to do what Mr Smaling proposes with his amendment, I think, with the arguments I have just given, that we would make it a wonderful situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u200	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u201	I'm not going into sustainability anymore. I have already said that Essent and Nuon also have wind farms, solar power stations and hydroelectric power stations. I have already indicated that all major new investments in sustainability, such as the five new offshore wind farms, are all carried out through consortia. There's a lot of interest in these consortia. If one party withdraws from it, there are others who will step in. I don't know exactly what's gonna happen to Eneco and DELTA. If there are problems with Eneco and DELTA, they are not problems caused by the network company. They are also not problems caused by the Independent Network Management Act. These are problems caused by the situation in the energy market. You can see that electricity prices are falling and that much more renewable energy is being produced. Together with the fall in gas prices, oil prices and coal prices, this has effects. I would also like to mention the costs involved in the closure of nuclear power stations. Different things are happening that have major effects on the energy market. This affects companies like RWE in Germany and Vattenfall in Sweden, but also Eneco and DELTA. Due to the changes in the production and supply market and the transition to a new market with renewable energy, jobs are lost in the category of production and supply, and there are fewer jobs. On the other hand, as a result of the transition to renewable energy, a whole new infrastructure is being built, making a lot of jobs available: at a company like Van Oord, which I believe will have a good chance of being involved in the construction of the wind farms, at companies that are going to do the maintenance of those wind farms and at a company in Limburg that provides the steel work for those windmills. All kinds of new jobs are created. You can see that jobs are disappearing in certain places as a result of changes in the market and that jobs are being created elsewhere. I don't know how many jobs that's going to be with Eneco and DELTA. That is also difficult to estimate, because this depends on what the shareholders are going to do. You now have shareholders who own the integrated company. Soon you will have the situation that those shareholders own the network companies, while those same shareholders own the production and supply companies. Then it is possible that those who assess the creditworthiness of such a production company and such a delivery company take into account how the shareholders behave. If they make it very clear that they have the ambition to keep both companies in their possession, then there can be a certain signal. I can't estimate that right now. It may also be that such a shareholder decides to sell that production and supply to a particular company on terms and conditions, which in turn has effects on employment, in a positive or negative sense. I can't estimate that right now. It's hard for me now to predict exactly how it's going to work out when Eneco and DELTA, like other companies, are going to comply with the law. It is difficult to say how that will work for employment. I can see that, if there is a problem for employment, there will be employment in this new sector somewhere else in Zeeland, but also in Limburg and elsewhere in the Netherlands. We're going to look at how this works out for Zeeland, for example. Is there any negative impact on employment in DELTA? We can then see that Zeeland currently has one of the strongest labour markets in the Netherlands. In the first half of 2015, the unemployment rate in Zeeland was 4.8%. That percentage was 10% to 12% in Drenthe. Zeeland has a low unemployment rate compared to most other parts of our country. In addition, Zeeland has proven over the years that it can take blows. One takes a blow on the one hand, but on the other hand, one blows when it comes to exploiting opportunities that arise. How exactly that will work out for Zeeland as a whole, I do not know now. I do know that the legislator has determined that provincial government is responsible for the regional economy. That responsibility is well taken up by all the provinces. If the province of Zeeland is faced with the facts, it would be there that some extras should be done and that is what we are dealing with, the Empire will certainly participate. We always do. If Zeeland were to set up a committee for this purpose, I would be prepared to allow the Empire to participate in it. That is all very well and then we will see how we can cope with the problems that may arise. We have done so in Zeeland in other places. I call it the plan on boundless work. We designed that together with the province. I also mention the plan for job losses at Philip Morris. According to newspaper reports, three quarters of the people who lost their jobs there have found a new job. The Empire has also provided support. On such occasions, we will continue to give that support. I shall now come to the motions and amendments on that point. However, we are very willing to provide support if a problem arises in Zeeland. The same applies to a situation in which employment is lost and employment is created. How does this work out for Zeeland as a whole? What does the province of Zeeland want to do? The government will certainly not run away from such questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u202	I think that commitment is important. With Aldel, that commitment turned out not to be an empty shell, because that company is running again. We also got a lot of people back to work at Philip Morris. We have made several plans in recent years which have also led to results. If the Labour Party, and perhaps other parties, could find resources for this in the discussion of the EZ budget, would the Minister be prepared to consider such an amendment very seriously? Is he willing to release extra money if that proves necessary? I'm asking for this a little too much, because I know he's willing to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u203	I would not recommend that Mr Vos do so. We are talking about a province where this problem does not yet arise. Nor is it clear how big the problem is on the one hand and what the benefits could be. So I am referring to the transition to renewable energy. If problems arise, this is primarily the responsibility of the county administration. Furthermore, the government has all kinds of resources available. I can draw from all these instruments. In doing so, I can make a contribution to this from the resources of the government. So it has not been said at all that extra money is needed for this. That depends on the situation. Mr Vos said that we acted at Aldel. That's right. We also supported the province and the municipality at Philips Morris. At the chemistry in Groningen we supported an initiative. In Drenthe we are currently in the process of participating. We will certainly want to do that in Zeeland, but given the current employment situation in Zeeland, given the uncertainty at DELTA and the fact that there is something else in a positive way, I think it is really too early to say now: where the provincial government is responsible for the regional economy, we are already going to spend extra money on this in the EZ budget. So what story do I have to say no to other parts of the country where unemployment is possibly even higher, which is generally the case, and from which I get the same request? I think that's a fragile story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u204	I hear the Minister now saying that he has existing resources, which can then be looked at. I think it's okay if we look at that, too. Of course, we will also have to look at how the situation is developing. Of course, it has not been said that the scenarios are as disastrous as those outlined by some. I hope that the opposite will prove to be true and that these business lines can continue in a good way when they are split up. But I understand that the Minister says: there are existing resources that we can use in due course if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u205	Sure. We have a large number of instruments in the Economic Affairs budget. We do not have the primary responsibility for the regional economy, but for the national economy. I believe that we are making the most of our responsibilities for the national economy and that the results are also there where we support business. As far as the regional economy is concerned, I think the provinces are doing really well. I see how Drenthe pulls it, how Groningen does it, how Limburg, Brabant and Gelderland do it. I can name them all; they all make it happen. The same applies to Zeeland. I'd like to leave them in that responsibility. I would like to discuss what instruments are available to me there. I would like to look at what we can do to help solve a problem that may arise and which is still the question of how large it is relative. I don't feel the slightest need to jerk my hands off Zeeland. On the contrary. In fact, I find it very special to see how employment in Zeeland has remained at a level after the blows in industry. This indicates the strength of the Zeeuws, the provincial government and the business community in Zeeland. Then I'll get to the nuclear power plant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u206	There is a final interruption by Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u207	I still have a question about Zeeland. In the first term Mr Bosman even said it: people are moving away from Zeeland. Relative unemployment remains relatively small because people leave. In a municipality like Sluis, in a town like Oostburg, there is almost no child around. This is, of course, due to job losses. If such a through and through Zeeland's company, where people from different parts of the province work, is so screwed up, also through a law of which you can doubt, even if the minister of not being, or who is still needed, is that really what we want?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u208	I'm not gonna kill DELTA. What happens is that a law also applies to DELTA. As for people and businesses in this country, they must comply with the law, as is the case with DELTA. The municipality or province is not now obliged to sell DELTA shares. That's not true. The municipality and the province are allowed to control both the grid and the production and supply business. If there is a normal dividend flow from that grid business to the municipality and the county, and they would like it, then there is nothing to stop them from putting that money into a production and supply business. That's not illegal. It's okay. That's their choice as a shareholder. They can also sell shares on terms. There are all kinds of things possible. All we do is that we apply laws that apply to others, including DELTA and Eneco. If there are negative effects on employment, it is not because of the division, but because of the situation on the production and supply market. Nuon, Essent, Vattenfall, RWE and all other companies are also affected by this situation. Eneco and DELTA can't stay out of that. The only way they could stay out of the Netherlands is by resting heavily on the network company as it happened in 2014. I don't know exactly what the profit was at DELTA in that year, but I'll look up the data so we can face that situation. There was a small profit in 2014, I think, of about 4 million. DELTA's network company made some 24 million profits, so if it hadn't been for that network company, you would have lost 20 million in the production and delivery business in 2014. According to information we have now read in the newspaper, DELTA suffered a loss of 150 million in the first half of 2015. This is not because of the law on independent network management, but because of the situation in the production and supply market. Those problems need to be solved, apart from the network company. That was important at the time, and it still is. I'm not gonna turn my back on DELTA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u209	This is going to be my last interruption, because I am through my interruptions. I have the impression that DELTA has taken on a number of things in recent years, which makes the company much better off than a few years ago. I believe that the situation outlined by the Minister has now improved considerably. The Minister is not a man who changes his mind very quickly, but I would like to make another point. He mentions Van Oord as a company that will create new jobs, but Van Oord is one of the signatories to the manifesto that appeared in the newspaper last week. So the management of this company also thinks you shouldn't do it. The Minister mentions the risk of one part pulling the other. However, this is regulated by the law and supervision is also provided for. The Minister has doubts, but if things go wrong, civil law still allows for the annulment of cases that are not permitted. Then it is as waterproof as Zeeland is now, after the Delta Works?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u210	I will not repeat all the arguments I have just listed several times. I'm getting to the point of the ad. I find it very interesting that a company should sign such an ad, but that does not relieve me of my responsibility as a member of the government to make good proposals and convince the Chamber. I've been able to do that now. I think it is fine that such a signature should be signed, but I have already said why, in my opinion, it was wise at the time to introduce that split and that group ban, and I have also made it clear why this is even more sensible now and why we really need to stick to the split. I have also said that we are going to run risks on the networks and that an uneven playing field will be created if Mr Smaling's amendment is adopted. That's not gonna change an ad like that. We are not governed by advertising in this country, but by legislation that comes into being in common cases between the First Chamber, the Second Chamber and the Government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u211	The Minister continues his speech. Perhaps it is good to strive for as little repetition of arguments as possible. They come back regularly, of course, but that might make the argument more compact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u212	I'll do my best. I'm coming to the Borssele nuclear power plant. There can be no risk of that in any situation. We have an independent Nuclear Safety and Radiation Protection Authority. He was in the Ministry of Economic Affairs first. The International Atomic Energy Agency has advised us to bring together the various authorities in the Netherlands and bring them to another ministry. Indeed, the Ministry of Economic Affairs is responsible for production, supply and the issues that we are all discussing now. Another ministry, in this case Infrastructure and Environment, may be responsible for the Nuclear Safety and Radiation Protection Authority without any connection to those matters. This authority therefore oversees the Borssele nuclear power plant. The nuclear power plant is stable. It's been calculated how long the plant can keep doing that. During this period, it is necessary to build up capacity to bear the costs of decommissioning the plant and of what should follow. As far as I am concerned, this is going to happen in the coming years. If the accumulated power is insufficient, then there is a problem. Because of the government's responsibility for the only nuclear power plant in the Netherlands, it is therefore her problem. In that case, we will discuss with the owners of the nuclear power plant the steps to be taken to finance the work to be carried out in the year when the nuclear power plant is closed down. The government therefore feels co-responsible for the nuclear power plant. We've set the system in motion. The responsibility we felt then, we will continue to feel until the closure and settlement of the closure. If problems arise in the course of the period, we will contribute to their resolution, in consultation with the shareholder, who bears the first responsibility. So I'm not in any way jerking my hands off that nuclear power plant, no matter how the situation develops there. I believe that I have given sufficient consideration to the issue of division.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u213	I was just waiting for the Minister to say something about the possible sale of Borssele's shares. Does the Minister intend to include this in his contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u214	I shall come back to that at the end of this period, at least if Mrs Van Tongeren could keep her patience until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u215	We can park the interruption until then, and if there is still a follow-up question, then so be it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u216	Yeah, that's the question about the property. The Minister said that he would not take his hands off Borssele and that by the time that power station is to be dismantled, he would consult. However, you can see in other countries that this consultation tends to result in a huge cost for the government. Governing is forward-looking. We have once started with various pots and funds whose predecessors have assured us that they will be sufficient for decommissioning. I would very much like to hear from the Minister what is in the pot and how he thinks that by the time Borssele is dismantled, this will have increased, so we will not wait until the time has come. I would therefore ask the Minister to give a financial insight into how Borssele's decommissioning costs are covered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u217	If there is an information need at the Chamber, I will see how I can meet this information requirement as soon as possible and in a good way. The comparison made by Mrs Van Tongeren between the situation in Borssele and the situation in other countries is still flawed. In Germany, the government has told RWE and E.ON to close their nuclear power stations, to cover the costs of closure, to ensure that the waste is managed responsibly in the future and to bear the costs themselves. So that's where they just get orders to shut down those nuclear power plants. We have a nuclear power plant which we have said can continue to run until the year 2034 and that in the interim power is being built up to cover decommissioning costs. So that's a situation that's incomparable to that in Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u218	I also thought I pointed to England where they had a similar savings system. The original savings system for Borssele might have worked, but either disappeared or not have been added to it. I have not been able to follow exactly where the original amount that started to build this up to 2034, has remained. I ask the Minister if he is prepared to give us an insight into that. That doesn't have to happen very quickly for me, because I prefer it to happen thoroughly rather than very quickly. In any case, it seems to me appropriate to see that it is guaranteed and that it will not be passed on to the community in 2034.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u219	I'm not going to wait until 2034. In the period between now and 2034 the owner of Borssele will want to keep an eye on how it works with the reservation of money and the building up of assets for decommissioning costs. If at any time there is an understanding that there may not be enough money in that reserve, then the owner has a problem and I expect him to discuss it with me. Then we will see how we can find a solution to this, also on the basis of the first responsibility of the shareholder. As far as Mrs Van Tongeren's information needs are concerned, I will see how I can provide for this correctly. I had the answer to Mrs Van Tongeren's other question in my head, but I was not sure. Fortunately, my associates helped me with that. That was about selling the shares. The shares of Borssele may not be sold without our consent. In addition to a legal provision, a covenant was concluded in 2006 and an additional covenant was concluded in 2011. These two agreements and the laws and regulations in force guarantee that there can be no sale of shares without the government's consent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u220	That is the reason for Mrs Van Tongeren's third and final interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u221	I have also just read the letter from Minister Verhagen to that supplementary covenant. As far as I understand it, the Minister can only block the resale of shares of the Borssele nuclear power plant on the following three grounds: public order, safety or public health. If, in principle, a party could run such a nuclear power plant, for example, I would mention Gazprom, but there are other large energy companies in other countries, but if we do not want that party in the Netherlands, I think it will be very difficult for the Minister to block it on these grounds. That is one of the other reasons why there must be an extra concern in case DELTA goes down and we have the problem of the nuclear power plant. I suggest we take a good look at this before we get into that problem situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u222	I don't have any clues as to a threatening problem. The three grounds are very broad. I can very well imagine that in a case such as Mrs Van Tongeren mentions it, the conclusion is that, on the basis of one of those three grounds, there will be no cooperation on the sale, apart from the question whether the shareholders would sell the shares. If they would, my analysis is that both covenants and existing laws contain sufficient safeguards to ensure that there can be no sale without the government's consent. That's the information I give the Chamber and what I stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u223	In my view, it is quite similar to the situation under the Mining Act, which the Minister has regularly said contains only a limited number of grounds. If DELTA gets into financial trouble, this is an asset that the company can sell. Then the Minister has only these three limited grounds at his disposal. What if the French state nuclear company wants to buy the nuclear power plant? Would the Minister agree to this takeover, which gives the French a majority stake in the Dutch nuclear power plant?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u224	I'm not in advance against selling. This has been discussed with the parties. Suppose DELTA wanted something with the nuclear power plant, what could happen? Is it even allowed to sell? If you have to give permission to do so, in what cases would you or would you not want to do so? It's been explored. Depending on the situation, we will take a specific decision on that situation. So we are not against sale in advance, but we cannot sell without our consent. I believe that the three grounds are broad. It is also about nuclear technology, for example. We have a well-run nuclear power plant in Borsssele, where there is a lot of experience in the application of nuclear technology. We do not want this knowledge of nuclear technology to become readily available to others. I can well imagine that there is a company that would like to buy the nuclear power plant, but that we think: we do not want that technology to come into the hands of that company. On the basis of one or more of the three considerations mentioned by Mrs Van Tongeren, we can say that we do not want to sell. There may also be a party who wants to buy the nuclear power station, which we all think is: if this party does so, will manage the nuclear power station until 2034 and is able to reserve enough money for it, we have no objection to it. I simply want the freedom to take a sensible decision on this subject, depending on the specific situation. That's the point of the split. Before I go to the amendments and the motions, I shall first deal with a number of separate questions that have been put. After my first term, Mrs Van Veldhoven wondered whether she had understood correctly that the shares of our network companies, in this case TenneT and Gasunie, would allow cross holdings with other network companies in Europe, which would put Dutch shares in private German hands. Yeah, that's a possibility. We would like to have this opportunity, because within the framework of the European energy market with large European producers and suppliers of electricity and gas, European consortia will be created for network companies. In order for the European market to function properly, this possibility must be considered. There are several ways in which companies in different countries can work together. One of the possibilities of supporting a partnership is the exchange of shares. The number of shares varies. We want to ensure two things, namely that the shares that are not in Dutch public hands form a minority. More than half must be owned by Dutch public legal entities, i.e. by public authorities. Moreover, the shares acquired through cross-equity should not then be resold to others. We are not allowed to do that, and we are ruling that out. Mrs Van Veldhoven has well understood that it can be exchanged in this scheme with foreign companies in private hands, but with the two limitations I have just mentioned. I shall come back to this later on in connection with an amendment tabled by Mr Vos. Mrs Van Veldhoven also asked about the wiring as a result of the Vos/Mulder amendment. She asked what objective criteria the Minister would use to determine the correct percentage. That amendment states that there must be consultation with municipalities in order to determine the percentage. It is conceivable that there will be shifts there and that we will consider in consultation how this can take shape. Such consultation must always be based on objective criteria. The size and capacity of a municipality is partly determined by the number of inhabitants, but you can also look at the number of kilometres to be wired. I haven't lined that up yet. This amendment is now on the agenda and I could implement it by holding exploratory consultations with the UNG. Then we can look at how the amendment can be done right and what precise objective criteria would apply. Mrs Van Veldhoven also asked about the situation of the Zeeuwse water company at split-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u225	Maybe it's a good thing Mrs. Mulder's interrupting first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u226	My point concerns the amendment tabled by Mr Vos and myself on wiring. If I understand the minister correctly, he still goes through the VNG in consultation with the municipalities. In doing so, he leaves all the room and that is in my view different from the answer we received in writing. It may therefore also mean that it could be more than 25% for certain municipalities. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u227	I will come back to that amendment. That amendment called for consultations with the VNG. I'm prepared to hold that meeting. I think it is desirable to maintain that 25% clause. Municipalities had to bear 100% of the costs themselves. Now they receive 75% subsidy, but the fact that they have to pay 25% means that they also have a financial interest in the careful, selective and economical application of the possibilities offered by this new scheme. I think it is desirable to maintain that. We have to wait and see if the amendment is adopted. I shall come back to exactly how that is worked out. I would like to look into this in greater detail in consultation with the VNG.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u228	Mrs Mulder has waived the follow-up question. She'll come back to that later. An interruption by Mr Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u229	We need to be a little careful with interruptions, because we don't know what else is going to happen. The aim of the authors of the amendment is to give a number of poor municipalities the opportunity to switch over where this would not be possible now, and to do so in conjunction with the VNG because it is the most appropriate party. If the Minister is going to do it again with that 25%, we might as well withdraw or amend the amendment, because then we will not be able to find out where the proposers want to come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u230	If the amendment means that each municipality must be considered whether a municipality finds itself poor and whether, if it is demonstrably not poor, it has good reasons not to want to pay the 25%, if I have to negotiate that percentage with each of those individual municipalities, there will be an unworkable situation. I know that 25% of the choice has been made very consciously. In this way we keep the financial and substantive involvement of the municipalities optimal. We are meeting the municipalities by 75% where that is now 0%. That's a good starting point. I will then look with the VNG, given the legislative proposal and the amendment, at the considerations that can be taken into account to make certain changes to the original plan. If that means negotiating the 25% separately with each of the municipalities, then there is nothing left of the proposal. With that explanation, I must advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u231	Mr Vos has waived his follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u232	I agree with the Minister that it is an unworkable situation, not entirely convenient for the Ministry of EZ but also not convenient for municipalities. All those municipalities that have to negotiate with the Ministry about what they can contribute, how many kilometers it is and what their budget looks like next year. So again the question to the Minister. The fact that we are going to socialize is indeed a necessity, given the cost statement he has provided himself. Socialising 75% of costs means something, including for those energy-intensive companies. The difference to 75%, 85% or 90% socializing is no longer so many steps. Why are we making it so difficult for ourselves and for the congregations? Why do we not say that we are going to socialize a little more of the costs and not have to discuss them? Then the municipalities were helped and the minister could be satisfied because municipalities would then be able to implement that cable programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u233	We're not making it difficult for anyone. A previous cabinet, which included the Christian Union, had not arranged anything at all on this point. The current cabinet says that we are prepared to buy out those in the outskirts who live under the power lines. We're willing to buy their property so they can leave. That was not settled in the past, and we have taken care of it. Municipalities that decide to switch to a residential area now have to bear 100% of the costs. We want the municipalities to bear only 25% of these costs, so we do not make it difficult for the municipalities. You don't have to turn it around now. On the contrary, we make it very easy for the municipalities; we are very much in favour of them. Mrs Dik said in her second term that it appears to be an extra few hundred thousand euros for large companies, while the Minister said it was millions. That's a misrepresentation of business. Mrs Dik said last time that the additional costs for households and businesses are so low that we could simply share them through socialists. At that time, I said that for SMEs it would be tens of euros and for the largest energy customers an amount of one million euros per year or more to be paid as a result of socialising the 75% cable costs. It turns out that's exactly the way it is. I gave the Chamber the exact figures. If we do not assume 75%, but assume 85%, 95% or 100%, we are talking about hundreds of thousands more for large companies. For smaller SMEs, this is an extra euro and for households it is even smaller amounts of extra. If we socialize small costs over a whole group, we can make them so small that we can talk them out of it. I really think it is important to look at the scheme on its own. The scheme consists of 75% subsidy and 25% that the municipalities themselves have to pay. This is necessary, also as an incentive for municipalities to come up with effective, efficient plans. They themselves have an interest in ensuring that the costs are as low as possible and that the possibilities are used only for situations where it is really desirable to have cabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u234	My amendment maintains a contribution from the municipalities. The municipalities therefore retain the financial incentive to think carefully about the plans and to deal efficiently with the funds. My point is that the 25% proposed by the Minister is unrealistic. In my home, where there is the highest density of homes under high-voltage cables, no house can be added under the high-voltage cables unless that one football field is removed. At this point, my hometown is not alone. A number of municipalities have united in the Municipal Platform High voltage. All the municipalities tell the same story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u235	Please come to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u236	Here and there there may be a possibility to build some extra homes, but mostly modo is about thinking on paper, while in practice it doesn't work. That 25% simply cannot be contributed. The Minister therefore creates an arrangement which is of no use to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u237	That is an observation. The Minister may respond, but there is no question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u238	I don't know much about Mrs. Dik-Faber's place of residence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u239	The clean Veenendaal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u240	You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u241	She knows more about her municipality than I do, but it seems very strange to me that the municipalities have nothing to do with the scheme, given that the municipalities currently have to bear all the costs themselves. We now come, unlike previous Cabinets, with a new arrangement in which we assume that 75% of the costs will be reimbursed. It is quite possible that Mrs Dik's place of residence will be compensated for more than 85%, or 95%, or 100%. I understand that, but it seems very useful to me to make a critical assessment in the case of wiring. A municipality has an interest in this and the people who live there also have an interest in it. If there is a cable running over houses and we make sure that that cable can be removed and disappears underground, then those houses will be worth 10% to 15% more. More property tax will therefore be paid to the municipality. The whole climate of life in such a neighborhood can therefore improve. I think that's very good. The municipality has to make a decision. That 25% is a very healthy incentive and the 75% is a major concession.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u242	Mrs Mulder can still use her deferred follow-up question. You have room for one question. After the Minister's reaction to this, we may be able to close this issue right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u243	Is the Minister prepared to see the 25% as a maximum? On certain municipalities that are poorer or need to cable more meters underground, the Minister may be able to talk to the VNG in this way. Will the Minister undertake to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u244	That is a clear question that invites you to a compact answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u245	In addition, what I have just said is: if it is a maximum, it means that every congregation will come to me. Otherwise, this town isn't worth a snipe. The municipality will then argue that the ceiling should not apply to it. One municipality says she's demonstrably poor. The other city says she's gonna be poor. Another says that she runs a lot of risks in all kinds of areas and that she has to reserve money for it, so she doesn't have any money for this. Another municipality says: we're talking about so much that we can't make it to 25%. Each municipality will submit an argument to try to reduce that 25% to a lower percentage. Otherwise, a city like this doesn't function well. What I can do, given the 25% principle and given the possible amendment adopted, is talk to the VNG to see if there are any possible nuances in the regulation that I have proposed on the basis of objective criteria. In my opinion and in the opinion of the UNG, these are nuances which are also practicable in practice. I'm willing to explore with the VNG what they might look like.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u246	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u247	I was working on the Zeeland water company. The regulations in force for energy companies do not, in principle, contain rules relating to the relationship between DELTA and their water company Evides. On the basis of the Drinking Water Act, however, it is true that direct public shareholdership is preferred, not indirect shareholdership as is the case with Evides. That is the general point I can make. However, it is separate from the legal treatment at the moment. Mrs Dik-Faber asked a question about her amendment on full disclosure. These were certificates of origin for grey stream. It is technically possible to set up a system for the certification of grey electricity for the Dutch conventional coal, gas and nuclear power stations without too much administrative burden. However, we are growing towards a situation with many more suppliers. In this situation, therefore, you will also have a significant increase in the administrative burden. That's one downside. The next downside is that the import makes the case weird. If a large amount of grey electricity regularly comes from abroad, where all this is not kept up to date, you don't know what you can still certify in the Netherlands and what you can pass on to customers in a responsible way. For this reason, out of the 28 Member States of the European Union, there is only one Member State that has introduced full disclosure. Of the other Member States, only Sweden does this on a limited scale and on a voluntary basis. That is absolutely not a covering system for the full generation of electricity. Austria buys almost free certificates for Norwegian hydropower power. Austria then says that the electricity it draws from abroad is electricity from Norway. In this way, Austria has set up a system which, in my view, is mainly a paper system. The added value for consumers is not present. I think that if, together in Europe, we could also set up certification of grey electricity in addition to certification of green electricity, this could have added value for the Dutch consumer. I am quite prepared to talk about this at European level, to look at the possibilities for doing so, and to see how this could be organised. I am committed to this, but I do not want to set up a system that has no added value for the Dutch consumer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u248	Mrs Dik's third and final interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u249	The Minister wants to put this on the agenda in Europe and then wait and see what happens. It would be very nice for the Minister to take this position when it comes to the split. That is where we are getting a little out of hand in Europe. Why does my group think it is so important that there should be full disclosure? That's because green electricity is now mandatory certified and grey electricity is not. Why would we use that unequal playing field? Why do we charge the green energy suppliers with a piece of administrative burden, although they are clear, and do we not do that to grey producers? That difference can't be justified, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u250	For green electricity, this is a European requirement and not a grey energy requirement. For green electricity we do this, and for grey electricity nobody does that. The only country that does it is Austria. But it is a system that has no material added value for consumers. That's why I don't want it. If you set it up in the Netherlands, you create administrative burdens, while it has no added value for consumers, especially because of the hole in it. You cannot determine from the electricity coming from abroad to the Netherlands where it comes from. Does it come from lignite, from nuclear power stations, from coal plants, from gas plants, from wind turbines or from solar panels? There will be green energy from windmills and solar panels, but not from the other. So it's not a functional system. The other countries in Europe, with the exception of Austria, have also drawn this conclusion. I've just been talking about Austria. Mrs. Dik returned to the split at the beginning of her interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u251	I thought we finished that theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u252	Yeah, but it's being re-proposed. I'll leave it at that this time, but next time I'll repeat the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u253	At some point, it's also clear. There's a follow-up question from Mrs. Dik.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u254	I think there's a lot of records. I repeat: CertiQ is a system in which a lot of data is kept. Based on that, you could certify. To my knowledge, this is being widely used and there are also European reports that recommend it. Can we not take a first step by at least applying it in the Netherlands and then working hard to further roll out that European?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u255	No, because the CertiQ system is a system where the administrative burden is limited only if you limit yourself to large conventional power stations. However, there are many more suppliers that come into the picture and then it becomes complicated. Moreover, it makes no sense because of the imports of grey electricity from abroad where there is no certification at all. This is also apparent from the fact that all the other countries of the European Union do not do so. The only country that does so is Austria, but it is not material. It makes no sense to do it in the Netherlands. Another thing is that you could organise it together in Europe; it would have added value. I am prepared to explore this possibility and see whether it can be achieved in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u256	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u257	Mrs Van Tongeren pointed out that Aldel had a special arrangement for network tariffs at the time. That's not true. At the time, all Dutch energy-intensive industries were subject to a network tariff regime. Aldel had a short-term interest in this because of the imminent bankruptcy, but other companies were also in a difficult situation. At that time, we laid down the rules for all these companies. It wasn't something that was done for one company. We do not do that in the Netherlands. Mrs Van Tongeren wondered whether several suppliers for one object within the meaning of the Wet onroerendelijke onderwijst were possible. Yeah, that's possible. The bill allows for two suppliers on one object within the meaning of the Real Estate Act. Is a second supplier possible if the postcode rose is used? Yeah, you can. The sector is working on the technical codes to clarify exactly how this should be worked out. I can therefore answer Mrs Van Tongeren's questions in the affirmative. Mr Graus has asked for energy exchanges. What role can an infrastructure company play in energy exchanges? You have a network company that could be part of an infrastructure company. In an infrastructure company or group, one of the participating companies can be an energy fair, facilitating wholesale energy. That infrastructure company itself is not a party to that trade and cannot be an intermediary, but it can facilitate trade because it is desirable from the point of view of the infrastructure company. I would now like to discuss the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u258	I suggest that you confine yourself to the amendments to the documents. 41, 49 and 64. You explained the rest in writing, argued and provided an opinion. The amendment in part No. 41 by Mrs Van Veldhoven to replace the amendment on item No. 39.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u259	Mr President, it is a question of dealing with a law which, like you, I very much appreciate. I think it is also necessary to make a few comments on some of the amendments which have been made by the spokesmen. I hope you will give me the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u260	What are the amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u261	I am concerned about the amendments to the documents. 34, 40, 41, 49 and 64.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u262	I don't think that's a problem. The amendments to documents Nos. 34 and 40 have already been commented on in writing, but if necessary, it is good to get them back. The other amendments were received later and did not comment in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u263	With the amendment in part No. 34 Mr Vos deleted the ban on system operators to outsource work to suppliers. I would like to remind the House that we are talking about Nuon, for example, among suppliers. For example, in the case of system administrators, we are talking about Alliander. It's about legal duties Alliander has. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Van mij mag het bedrijf die niet uitbesteden aan bijvoorbeeld Nuon.]] Mr Vos believes that this should be possible. This means that Nuon via Alliander, with which one used to be in one group, enters the customers. That is, of course, extremely confusing for the customers. It is not always clear to customers that there is a distinction between a network operator and a production and delivery undertaking, but if the production and supply undertaking enters the customers under the banner of the network operator, then you will really get an incomprehensible situation for the consumer. Nor is it necessary for Nuon and Essent, for example, to carry out work on behalf of Enexis or Alliander. There are plenty of other suppliers that can do that. Enexis and Alliander can do that very well themselves instead of Nuon and Essent doing that. I would suggest to Mr Vos that the amendment to item No. Thirty-four to be reconsidered. I come to the amendment to item No. 40 by Mrs Van Tongeren c.s. This concerns the guarantees of origin, the certificates we have just discussed. This is a modification of the chapters on supply and production of the Electricity Act 1998 and of the Gas Act. We have incorporated these chapters in the legislative proposal before us. We will come up with a further amendment to both chapters. In addition to what I have just said, I think it would be wise to discuss these changes again on that occasion. I do not wish to go into detail on the amendment to item No. 41.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u264	You maintain the advice: dissuade?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u265	I maintain the advice "dissuade," thank you, Mr President. The amendment in part No. Forty-nine is Mrs Mulder's amended amendment to replace her first amendment under No. 49. Thirty-two had filed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u266	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u267	Ms Mulder stated that the system operator should be entrusted with the task of conducting an investigation in the event of serious malfunctions and that the results of that investigation should then be made public. It's already happening. In the event of a malfunction, ACM will occur. ACM can and will do that. It will then investigate itself. ACM is independent. It can also have a third party do it. This appears to be the case in practice. In the last malfunctions there have been, it has always been so. I therefore believe that legal coercion is not necessary, but legal coercion will not in practice lead to a change in the way things are. I do not think this amendment is necessary, but for this reason I do not see any major objections either. That is why I leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u268	The amendment in part No. 49 to replace that in item No 49. 32 is therefore given the opinion: Judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u269	I come to the amendment to item No. 64 by Mr Vos on cross participation. This means, for example, that TenneT or Gasunie will work with companies in other countries and will support this by exchanging shares. In his amendment, Mr Vos states that this should be limited to a maximum of 25 and that this should apply only to transmission system operators, i.e. network operators, in Germany or in Belgium. I would advise against this amendment. The 25% is not something that makes sense. Of course, as a government, you want to control the majority of the shares and control them, and you also prevent resale. I think that makes sense, but I don't see the justification of 25%. The amendment also states that it can only be done with Germany or Belgium. Germany has a number of countries, which are part of the Federal Government. There are four large nets in Germany. Two of them are not connected to the Dutch network. However, they should be allowed to participate in such a cross participation, whereas Luxembourg, for example, which is not linked to the Dutch networks, should not be allowed to do so. It is perfectly conceivable that we will come to something in the Benelux context. Then why should we exclude Luxembourg? In pentalateral North-West European cooperation we are with France. Why should we exclude France anyway? I know France is not directly connected, but at the same distance other networks in Germany are not either. I believe that the limitation to Belgium and Germany alone does not make any sense either. For both reasons, I do not recommend the amendment to item No. 64 by Mr Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u270	Are you going to move on to the motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u271	I'll move on to the motions, Mr. Chairman. In the motion in part No. Mrs Dik-Faber asked the government to join and discuss the implementation of the employment plans of the province of Zeeland and to inform the Chamber before the end of the year. Maybe I can get the motion from Mr Vos right away. Anyone know what number it has?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u272	That is the motion by Mr Jan Vos/Albert de Vries in part No. 50.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u273	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u274	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The intention of the motion by Mr Jan Vos/Albert de Vries is that the government, together with the province, should set up a committee to give impetus to the Zeeland economy and employment, and to inform the Chamber as soon as possible. I want to do it the way it says it. I have already mentioned this and said that the initiative lies with the province. It is responsible for the regional economy. At the moment there is no hard need to do this for Zeeland as a whole. We have to wait and see what the possible effects are on DELTA. We also need to see the counter-effects. Then we have to look at what Zeeland itself thinks is important. If Zeeland then takes the initiative and sets up a committee, I am prepared to participate in that committee and to present the instruments we have for that purpose. If the explanation that I have just given to Mr Vos and Mr De Vries' motion is also the explanation of the authors, I can leave that motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u275	I see Mr Vos's gently-agreed nodding. This is particularly important for the Acts. He agrees with your interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u276	Spacious!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u277	There was a louder nodding than I'd seen. Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u278	Thank you, Mr President, and I shall now come to the motion for a resolution on part No. 43 in which Mrs Dik-Faber asks me to discuss the implementation of the employment plans of the province of Zeeland and to inform the Chamber before the end of the year. That is not a wording that I think is better than the wording of the other motion. That is why I would like to advise against this motion, where I left the verdict on that other motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 44 Ms Dik-Faber asked the government to consider seriously alternatives to the buy-out of residents on high-voltage lines, including wiring of 220 kV and 380 kV lines, moving the route or using innovative types of masts with less radiation. So far it has been about the 110 kV and 150 kV lines. You would also visualize the 220 kV and 380 kV high voltage connections, if there were technical reasons for doing so. I believe that these technical reasons may be possible. The technology is changing and I can imagine that there will be more possibilities. The motion could therefore be enforceable under a number of conditions. Mrs Dik-Faber asks me to take a look at this and consider it seriously, given the changing technology. I would have no objection if the Court were to pronounce this as its judgment. That is why I leave the judgment on that motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u279	Mr Graus has a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u280	I'd love to. I did not use any interruptions and I would like to give one of my interruptions to Mrs Dik-Faber, because I saw that she wanted to ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u281	Unfortunately, they are not interchangeable!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u282	No, but then I'm just gonna ask her, I'm gonna stand here again, and I'm gonna ask the question. I'll be right back!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u283	That is extremely loyal! In the meantime, the Minister continues with the motion in part No. 45.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u284	The motion in part No. 45 belongs to Mrs Van Veldhoven. It invites the government to support a rapid roll-out of zero-on-the-meter homes, for example by allowing building-related funding in the experimental space of the Electricity Act, while exploiting the potential of grid operators. I have no inhibition to support the zero-on-the-meter initiatives. I think that these are very desirable initiatives. The zero-on-the-meter houses are industrial initiatives where in a very short space of time an old rental house is converted into a modern house that does not have to be supplied with energy; they are produced as much as decreased. The most important thing was that we got this industrial process going. In Groningen I am currently conducting a pilot with 150 homes. As soon as that pilot turns out to be successful, 1,500 more of those zero-on-the-meter homes in Groningen will follow. That is one of the things we do to compensate in Groningen. In doing so, we have initiated the industrial process. I am motivated to carry out this much more and on a larger scale in the country. I am also in favour of looking into whether this is possible for residential properties. However, I do not think it is appropriate to include the system operators in the funding. That is not the intention of these system operators. They have a duty of their own and they must confine themselves to doing so. Despite my sympathy for the zero-on-the-meter houses, I therefore advise against this motion in part No. 45. In the next motion by Mrs Van Veldhoven, on item No. 46 it asks the government to examine how gas certification can be introduced into the gas market and what the administrative burden is. Certification of fossil gas is very complicated. I cannot make any demands on foreign producers. They produce gas. That will then be on the market. I don't have any control over that. I do not see how what is called for in this motion can work in practice. The Arctic Sea is also mentioned in the motion. This is not the way the gas market works at the moment, not even in the Netherlands. The Netherlands has its gas roundabout. I do not see how this can lead to good in practice. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u285	Gas enters the Netherlands only through a limited number of pipelines. There is also only a limited number of players with whom contacts are maintained in this area. They all have in their annual reports where they get their gas from. In this way, it is possible to make the origin of the flows transparent. Why is this so complicated?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u286	I don't know where countries like Qatar and Russia get their gas. That certainly applies to Russia. The gas is traded on a world market. I am in no position to make demands on countries like Qatar and Russia. I cannot demand that they say: this gas comes from there and that gas comes from there. That doesn't work, given the way that gas market is organized. That gas is also constantly traded. The Dutch gas is also placed on that gas market. Anyone can buy it and sell it. That happens all the time. I don't care to hold hands with suppliers that I can't control.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u287	Can the Minister not make demands on it, or do he not want to make demands on it? The Minister can simply say that we need to be able to demonstrate where the gas entering the Netherlands comes from. He can do that, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u288	I can do anything. I can accept that we can't have nuclear power. I can also accept that we should not use shale gas, that we should not extract gas from the bottom of Groningen, that we should not extract gas from the small fields and that we should not extract gas from the North Sea. I can also accept that we must tell Russia that it cannot supply gas if it cannot deliver a certificate. I can tell Qatar that, too. I can do anything to make it difficult for ourselves, but we can also keep acting normal. The gas market is an international market. The gas is constantly traded. Besides, we really don't have any control over those suppliers. In such a situation it may be theoretically conceivable that I would make demands, but if I were to make them, it would not be in the interests of the Dutch customers. So I'm not willing to do this, and I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u289	That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u290	In her motion in part No. 47 Ms Van Veldhoven asked the government, in the Decision, to clarify when and how the ACM also assesses the need for expansion and replacement investments in the maritime transmission system. In that transmission system at sea, we have established a scenario for wind at sea. We have included the minimum transport capacity for each wind farm, as well as the way in which every wind farm is electrically accessible to that network at sea, as well as the future developments in offshore wind energy that must be taken into account in this electrical access. The transmission system operator, TenneT, elaborates this scenario in an investment plan. It should include all replacement and expansion investments. Due to this scenario, it is not necessary for the ACM to review the need for the proposed investments, as the need for such investments for the network at sea already follows from that scenario. We have chosen a very clear line for this net at sea and for the wind farm at sea. We have a law on which this is based. We have made plans for how this can be achieved per year. What we need to do is to do our own research. We make all the results available to everyone. Then we will arrange the financing. We have done everything that needs to be regulated around the nets at sea. In this way and with the supervision that the ACM can keep, we have dealt with the matter very well. This motion does not provide any material improvement. I therefore advise against the Van Veldhoven motion in part No. 47.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u291	The motion in part No. 47 is not recommended. Then comes Mrs Van Veldhoven's third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u292	At the moment, we are still working on scenarios because we are talking about the extension of a network. Soon we will have a network on land and a network at sea. Then there is a situation where the ACM for the land network, which is managed by the same administrator as the network at sea, gives a test and not for the network at sea. I find it strange that this distinction is made in the decision, because the Minister does not want to make a substantive distinction in the future. I can imagine that the ACM will say for the short term: we have already physically met this test because we have tested the scenarios. But in the future this might be different for replacement and expansion investments. If the Minister says that there is no material difference between what I want and what he wants, and if I say that I find that unclear in the decision, then I ask the Minister to look again at that decision. The motion asks to see if that might be clarified.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u293	We have chosen an exemplary plan for wind at sea. There's 40% cost reduction. Turning on TenneT. If TenneT does not deliver that net at sea in time, then there is a compensation scheme for those who win the tenders and have to invest. The participants in the tenders do not have to choose their own part of the sea and do research there. We have chosen that for them and we have already done that research. We've arranged the funding. We have laid the legal basis for it. We have had scenarios made, in which all these things become clear. So there's no problem. And why would we solve a problem that does not exist with a motion? That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u294	Whether I consider the Minister's plans to be as exemplary as he himself, I shall leave it out of the ordinary debate. But the decision explicitly provides for an exception for wind at sea. That makes it confusing, because the Minister actually says that he wants the equipment to be the same, but the decision explicitly provides for an exception for wind at sea. I'm just asking him to see if that confusion can be removed. Then we'll see what he does with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u295	There's no confusion. Five parks are now being built for the net at sea. One company, TenneT, has been designated to ensure that it is connected to the country. It has also been agreed with TenneT that this goes with standardised units: there comes two, there comes two, there comes one. Everyone knows what he's doing with each other. We've taken care of all that. We have developed scenarios for this, so that all the aspects mentioned by Mrs Van Veldhoven are also clear. Then I don't have to go over that again. We've taken good care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u296	The Minister continues with the assessment of the motion in part No. 48.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u297	In it, Mrs Van Veldhoven asks to consider how the legal connection obligation to gas can best be converted into a legal connection right to heat and inform the Chamber about it before the summer. The law already allows exemptions from the gas connection obligation at local level. The bill provides enough room for heat. We come up with a separate implementation agenda for heat. I first came to the Chamber with a vision. There will be an implementation agenda. There's gonna be a new heat bill. So I'm doing the things Mrs. Van Veldhoven is asking. But since I already do it, there is no objection to the Chamber saying that again, although it does not have any added value. That is why I leave the judgment on the motion in part No. 48 to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u298	The judgment on the motion in part No. 48 is in the Chamber. Then we go to the motion in part No. 51.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u299	In the motion in part No. 51 calls on Mr Vos to carry out a more detailed analysis of the role that infrastructure companies can play in accelerating the sustainability of energy supply, and to forward this analysis to the Court of Auditors in the Energy Report. The most important thing is to clarify the definition of roles and responsibilities in the energy market. In the current Electricity and Gas Act, this definition was not sufficiently clear. As a result, parties felt uncertain and did not want to come up with new activities and services, because they did not know if they could. So we have now made a very clear definition. System operators and infrastructure companies know exactly where they stand and what they can and cannot do. As a result, the market players, which are often very small and sometimes somewhat larger, also know in what area they will not be competitive by public companies. It is now up to the market players to show that they are making use of the freedom they have been given, that they will indeed offer all the new activities and services we expect from them. I expect this to happen. Let's see how this works out in practice. If something goes wrong, there's the possibility of doing something with experiments. I think it would be much better to give the clarification we have now chosen the opportunity to work, to keep that experimental possibility under control and, if necessary, to look at it later, whether or not after experiments, whether any changes are needed. I do not think it is appropriate for the market to now consider how infrastructure companies can be put into an unclear role. I therefore advise against Mr Vos' motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u300	The motion in part No. 51 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u301	The motion in part No. 52, by Mrs Mulder as the second signatory and Mr Vos as the first signatory, deals with flexible and dynamic transport tariffs. The motion asks that the options, including demand management and buying-in flexibility through the market, be included in the investigation. I have said before that I am going to investigate whether flexible grid charges can contribute to making demand response available on the market. That is to say, with flexible tariffs, you achieve a high level of electricity and gas reduction at desired times and less reduction at times when you do not think that is desirable. I am going to investigate whether the flexible rates can contribute to this. This applies to the citizens. Companies, including energy-intensive energy, could contribute more easily to the system balance with flexible grid tariffs. Actually, you're in the middle of questioning. You make sure you don't get a big question at times when you can't use it and a big question at times when you can use it. I think I can inform the Chamber about this investigation at the beginning of 2016. I will also look more broadly at these flexible grid charges, for example as a means of saving net increases. Mr Bosman has already spoken about this. So this is part of my answer to Mr Bosman. I will include options such as the adjustment and adjustment of decentralised production units, as well as the system of demand response and storage options. I'll also see if we can investigate this further in labs. I also believe that it is the intention of the motion that I do this. I therefore consider the motion to be a policy support and leave it to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u302	The motion in part No. 52 is left to the discretion of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u303	In the motion in part No. 53 of Mr Vos, he wrote that infrastructure companies could contribute to the energy transition. The bill allows infrastructure companies to contribute to the energy transition within the constraints that have been deliberately introduced into that law. In addition, we can use the experimental space to see what new tasks may be taken up. Whoever's behind this is the Gasunie. What role could the Gas Union play in promoting sustainability? With the Gasunie, which is a 100% State participation, these experiments can be discussed and jointly designed. I do the same with all the others who are interested in experiments. In the case of the Gas Union, however, it should not be involved in the production or supply of electricity or gas. The Gasunie is a network company, a system operator, and it should not be involved in the production or supply of electricity or gas. That point of departure remains for me. With this in mind, these experiments on sustainability can be further discussed. So I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u304	Does Mr. Vos endorse this exegesis? Yes, I can see him nodding, this for the sake of the Acts. For the motion in part No. 53 therefore applies: Judgment of Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u305	Then I come to the motion on part No. 54. That is another motion by Mr Vos, who, as usual, has shown himself to be very active. This time he found Mrs. Van Tongeren by his side. This motion calls on the government to investigate the grey electricity guarantee system. He asks how the current system for green energy can be extended to grey energy. I have already indicated that this cannot be done for the Netherlands alone, but that it could be done at European level. This means that the consultation that Mr Vos and Mrs Van Tongeren advocate in this motion can take place in the light I have just outlined. Then I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u306	The motion in part No. 54: Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u307	It is a pity, but I cannot clearly nod at this point, because this motion has really been drafted for the Netherlands. It is also intended that Dutch parties should consult each other on this matter. I understand that the Minister will not be able to give a ruling to the Chamber, but nevertheless I will maintain the motion. So this time no generous or explicit nod.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u308	The exegesis is a bit more limited, more focused on the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u309	Then what I said earlier, namely that there is a lot of electricity coming from abroad, that there is no certification and that other countries do not actually do it, and that where it is the only country that does it, the material does not really represent anything. So I would only like to do that research in the light of European cooperation. If Mr Vos says that he has nothing to do with European cooperation on this motion and I should therefore only do it for the Netherlands, then what I said earlier is true and I should therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u310	On the basis of the interpretation of the proposers, the motion in part No. 54 dissuaded by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u311	Then I come to the motion on part No. 55 by Mr Vos, inviting the government to send the Chamber General Administrative Measures to the Chamber by 1 January and to ensure that they are formulated in such a way as to remove optimum obstacles that exist today and give real scope for testing innovative concepts. I think it would be good to ensure that the General Measure of Management on temporary tasks for the system operators joins the Chamber in the second quarter of 2016. It's a matter of temporary duties. There is still some work to be done on this. Mr Vos could be generous in that respect by giving me the time until the second quarter of 2016. If that is acceptable to him, I can leave the verdict on that motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u312	In other words, for the summer recess of 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u313	I can agree to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u314	In her motion in part No. 56 asks Ms Van Tongeren the government to ensure that the decisions of the ACM on the designation of heat areas and the obligation to connect gas system operators are in line with decisions of municipalities on the future infrastructure. In practice, the ACM always follows the decisions of the municipalities. That's how it goes. So this motion solves a problem that is not there. It's an unnecessary motion. That's why I'm betraying her. The Van Tongeren motion in part No. 57 is about energy storage in electric cars. As long as the charging point of the electric car is located behind the meter of the consumer, he can already do what is requested in the motion. There is no limit for the consumer to use the power he generates with solar panels or otherwise behind the meter for both his own household and what is associated with it, as well as the electric car he may have. There's no legal limit to that. With experiments, we deviate from the legal rules. In this case, there is no legal rule that stands in the way of what has to be done behind the meter. There is therefore no need to include this in an experimental article. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u315	I see Mrs. Van Tongeren at the interrupting microphone. She may say something about the interpretation of this motion, but she may no longer question the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u316	In my opinion, there are consumers who do, such as people in an association of owners where a cooperative has solar panels on the roof. People with their own home and their own carport are not the only ones who have electric cars and want to charge them themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u317	A distinction must be made between the front and the rear of the meter. That is an important distinction. Behind the meter there is no limitation. That is not what the problem is about. Mrs Van Tongeren refers to collective generation using the reduced energy tax scheme. I shall return to that situation at the end of the debate on the motions. As a result of Mrs Van Tongeren's interruption, I shall leave the motion in part. 57 more lay down, with your permission, Mr. Chairman. In her motion in part No. 58 Ms Van Tongeren asked the government to evaluate the functioning of the experimental space and to inform the Chamber of the next amendment of the Electricity and Gas Act about the findings. There is already a General Management Measure for Experiments. It entered into force in February of this year. We've had the first tender. The first experiments are now being assessed and the decisions are now being prepared. The experimental space is currently available only for experiments that see on both local and renewable energy. It must therefore be both local and renewable energy. That makes for limitations. That's what we're gonna do in the new bill. There is a much broader experimental clause, which allows us to experiment with everything within the European framework. Given the importance of bringing the legislative proposal and the lower regulation into force as of 1 January 2016, I have chosen to take over the current AMvB experiments without any substantive changes. Then I would like to work on extending this General Measure of Management, because it is important to integrate more experiments into the new AMvB. In order to be able to work out this AMvB well, I need more time than 1 January next. That is why the bill now states that the new AMvB is to be worked out and submitted to the Chamber with its backing. In this way, the Chamber will be fully involved. I think we are at the beginning of using that experiment AMvB new form. It is not realistic to discuss again what we should evaluate and what should be done in the event of a subsequent legislative amendment. For that reason, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u318	The Secretary of State is dissuading the motion. You have an enlightening question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u319	I do not mean that the evaluation should be ready for this law, but that, next time the law comes along, we will take the experience we have gained.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u320	Does that lead to a different advice from the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u321	It goes without saying that we use the experience we have gained in developing a new AMvB. With all due respect, I really do not need a motion from the Chamber and this seems to me to be a completely unnecessary motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u322	You continue to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u323	Yes. I went into detail on Mrs Van Tongeren's motion for a resolution on item No. 59, in which it states that the future of the Borssele nuclear power plant is affected by the division of DELTA and in which it invites the Government to consider postponing the division of DELTA at least until there is a solution for ownership. I don't think there's any reason to make this statement. I have indicated how we have dealt with this and how we have organized it. For that reason, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u324	The motion in part No. 59 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u325	In the motion in part No. 60 Ms Mulder asked the government to give the Zeeland region and South Holland and the affected companies a two-year period to split up the company. She refers to DELTA and Eneco. I can't do that, because I'm not going over the time limit of division. We've done that quite deliberately differently in this country. We know a legislator, the government, the Lower House and the Upper House. In addition, we have an independent supervision and that is ACM. I am of course talking to ACM, ACM takes into account the interests of the companies. The companies have requested ACM to apply the law, monitor and deal with it. ACM should also take into account DELTA and Eneco. In addition, merger issues may still have to be taken into account. I am willing to bring all aspects that play to the attention of ACM once again, but I am ultimately obliged to accept the independence of ACM. I can't tell ACM what needs to be done and that it needs to be delayed for two years. That is not possible under the law applicable to ACM. For that reason, I must advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u326	The motion in part No. 60 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u327	In the motion in part No. 61 Ms Mulder asked the government to come forward with a roadmap in consultation with the sector by February 2016 to ensure that consumers with smart meters would soon be given the opportunity to conclude contracts on the basis of quarter-hour rates. In practice, a number of cross-compliance conditions must be met before consumers can benefit from 15-minute rates, i.e. flexible delivery rates. It's all got to be possible. You have to have ICT systems that are sufficiently reliable and the internal processes need to be adapted. Both suppliers, programme managers and system operators must have coordinated their activities. In general, we have made a plan for this. ICT systems should be suitable for a nationwide central ICT system by 2016-2017, the allocation of electricity consumption at short interval levels should be possible by 2018 and should therefore be able to offer flexible delivery rates on a large scale by 2019. This is feasible and is the subject of regular consultations with the parties concerned. I'll follow those possibilities closely and see if I can speed this up with experiments. We have this timetable, we have the possibilities for these experiments and we have the consultation. The design of a separate roadmap has no added value, so I advise against this motion by Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u328	The motion in part No. 61 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u329	Mrs Mulder has tabled a motion on item No. 62. It is not about Mrs Dik-Faber's residence but about the village of Reduzum in Friesland. It invites the government, together with the initiators of Reduzum, to see to what extent they can make use of the current experimental assessment. This is a solitaire mill and it is also the policy of the provincial government. The provincial board makes the assessment whether or not it wants solitaire mills. I don't want to sit in there. I respect the consideration the county board has to make. The legislative proposal only provides for derogations from the provisions of the law currently under discussion and does not derogate from provisions contained in spatial legislation. For this reason, the experimental provision in this law cannot solve the spatial policy laid down in other laws, apart from the fact that I do not want to sit in it. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u330	Mrs Mulder's last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u331	Yes, chairman, at the point of the smart meter. The Minister has a global plan. Can he send it to the room? We had the impression that much more would start in 2016. Despite good information to the Chamber, it seems that a different picture can emerge as to how it should proceed. The CDA was surprised about 2019. That is why I would like more clarity. Can the Minister send that planning for a particular AO, for example the general energy consultation, to the Chamber? Then we can talk about it and then I'll hold on to my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u332	I shall repeat what I have just said in a letter which may be discussed in general consultation, so that Mrs Mulder has the opportunity to speak about it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u333	I thank the Minister for this commitment. I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u334	At the request of Mrs Agnes Mulder, I propose her motion (34199), No. 61). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u335	The motion in part No. 62 dissuade the minister. We shall then be ready for the motion on item No. 63.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u336	Mr Graus and Mrs Klevertje's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u337	We agreed that this kind of intimacy would be confined to the group chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u338	Excuse me, Mr. Graus and Mrs. Klever. They ask the government to take responsibility for this. We are always happy to record the cost distribution if existing homes with a gas connection are designated as homes with a heat grid or all-electric connection and to ensure that the property owner is not unwelcomely chased at cost. We have a heat bill that doesn't work properly. We have sent a heat vision to the Chamber and are now in the process of evaluating that Heat Act. We have indicated when we will come up with a new Heat Act. I think that heat is of the utmost importance and I am working on it with great conviction, but this is something that needs to be dealt with in the context of heat and a proposal on heat. This bill is not about heat projects at all. To make a statement about heat now, when you cannot place it in a large whole, is not wise. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u339	I think I'm gonna hold the motion. Mrs Klever can then decide to put it back to the vote under the Heat Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u340	Excellent. In my opinion, this will certainly be an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u341	At the request of Mr Graus, I propose his motion (34199), No. 63). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u342	In the motion in part No. 65 the government is invited to arrange per AMvB for system operators to disclose information on energy saving options, thereby reducing costly investments in capacity increase. Mr Bosman has mentioned this a number of times. He says that at some point you can lead a thicker cable to a certain number of customers, but that it is also possible to do it in a different way, through energy saving and energy storage. On this point, he and Mr Vos tabled the motion for a resolution on item No. 65 submitted. The bill already lays down the obligation for system operators to disclose information useful for the market. The potential for energy saving is certainly part of this. The obligation to provide information can be developed at AMvB with more concrete provisions. If the Chamber considers that this is necessary, the AMvB may explicitly require that information on options for energy saving be made public. I shall leave this motion to the Chamber and await the Court's ruling on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u343	The motion in part No. 65: Judgement Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u344	In the motion in part No. 66, tabled by Mr Bosman and Mr Vos, invites the government to consult with the ACM on the exercise of due diligence in the implementation of the Act on Independent Network Management, while respecting the position of Borssele nuclear power station. The motion calls for this care to be discussed with the ACM in the light of the employment and safety of the nuclear power plant. I believe that a carefully split process is important in all circumstances, but certainly when it comes to a nuclear power plant. I am prepared to conduct the requested consultation with ACM. I have said all the necessary things about how I see the state's position vis-à-vis the nuclear power station. I said that the first responsibility lies, of course, with the shareholder. I see the motion, given the way it has been formulated, as a support for policy. Given the importance of the nuclear power plant, I think that a ruling in this sense by the Chamber is not problematic. That is why I shall leave the vote on the motion for a resolution on item No. 66 to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u345	The motion in part No. 66: Judgement Room. The Minister was going to come back to the motion in part No. 57.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u346	Also on the motion on item No. 51 I would like to say one more thing. Perhaps you could give me half a minute to look at these motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u347	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u348	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to say a few words about the motion on item No. 57, on the energy storage of electric cars in case an association of owners wants to do something about this. If electricity is first imported on the grid and then electricity is taken off the grid for the cars of persons belonging to that association of owners, there is no question of using own electricity directly behind the meter. Then it goes through the net and that is not what the motion refers to. I believe that there are major developments in the field of the storage of electricity in cars, as I have said to the Chamber on many occasions. You have renewable energy produced by wind and sun. What is more beautiful than storing this sustainable electricity and then using it for electric cars without any environmental or climate impact? I really think that's a beckoning perspective. We have a lot of cars in this country, and I estimate that we have a lot of electric cars in the future. You'll have a large storage capacity. Somehow it has to be used. Maybe she needs to be used in different ways. I do not rule out the possibility of something coming at this point. I am therefore prepared to look carefully at how I can use the AMvB to enable experiments on this point, even if they are contrary to the rules in force, but in anticipation of the objective I have just outlined. I think that's what Mrs Van Tongeren wants, too. If the commitment that I will do my best to enable the desired development through that experimenter-AMvB is sufficient for her, and if she shares the perspective I have just outlined with me, she could withdraw or maintain her motion. I shall do what she thinks is appropriate on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u349	Is it possible to leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u350	I'd rather not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u351	Not even with your exegesis just now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u352	The motion states that I have to take care of this, and I would like to use that experimenter-AMvB for that. So I think it would be better if the motion were withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u353	Is the applicant satisfied with a commitment? I would like to give the petitioner the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u354	I will amend the text as proposed by the Minister. Maybe we won't make it by Tuesday, but I'll retable the motion. I'd like to have a ruling from the Chamber on it. I thought I understood from the first debate that the Minister was thinking this way. If the text is too short, I will adjust it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u355	Clear. We look forward to that with interest. The motion is therefore still before the House. There may be a new version. Let me be clear: has the motion in this form been dissuaded by the Minister? Is that a good summary?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u356	Yes. If there is an amended motion, as Mrs Van Tongeren has just announced, I will leave it to the House to decide. I will also discuss this with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u357	Sounds like a pretty tight plan to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u358	I've got the motion in part no. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Mr Vos asked for an analysis of the role that infrastructure companies can play in improving the sustainability of energy supply. I think that a number of comments can be added to what I have said. Indeed, it is up to market players to show that they are going to use the clarity that is there. I've already said that. They should also make use of the possibility of experimenting. I think that is what Mr Vos is trying to do with his motion. A theoretical study of the office has no added value compared to what I have just said. Dissuading the motion actually suggests a difference between Mr Vos and me that I do not taste in practice. I would therefore like to consider Mr Vos holding or withdrawing this motion and looking at developments on this point. If he finds that something else is going to go, he can come back with it. Right now, I don't see any difference. As he formulated the motion, I advise against her. If Mr Vos withdraws the motion, he has, for my part, had the assurance that, if market players do not make sufficient use of the possibilities, I will use experiments to see what added value infrastructure companies may have on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u359	Can Mr Vos be sufficiently satisfied with this commitment from the Minister? And does that cause the motion to be withdrawn?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u360	My group has doubts about the role that market players are going to play here. We therefore also find the third motion of D66 interesting, which states that it is precisely a matter of extras that should be done to enable the network companies to achieve sustainability. In that light, this motion should also be considered. I'll think about it again. I will also read the text of what the Minister has said here. For the moment, I am not very inclined to withdraw this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u361	The formal status is therefore that the motion is maintained. In this form, the Minister has advised against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u362	Studying is always wise. That certainly applies to me, but sometimes also to Mr Vos. Perhaps he would also consider that one of the important points of this law is that we have made the roles clear. Where there have so far been no or too few market initiatives, the market really has the opportunity to come up with initiatives because they know that they do not get unfair competition from network companies. If you have drafted such a law and if you think the market will take advantage of those opportunities, it is also good to offer the market that opportunity. If it turns out that the market is not doing it well enough or not fast enough, then I am prepared to see if what can be made possible by these network companies in a responsible way. But first let's give the market the opportunity. I will follow that closely. I'm not too bad to use those experiments if necessary. If it turns out that it can only be achieved in the desired way with these experiments and with the involvement of the network companies, then we can always go one step further. The difference between Mr Vos and me is very small, but I do not see any added value in doing a theoretical study of the office on this point. The implementation of the intention of the law, together with the possible application of the possibility of experimentation, seems to me to be more useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u363	I'd like to talk to you about this "theoretical desk study" qualification. For example, we are talking about the project Streamspeed, which we have talked about before. That's a great way to renovate houses.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u364	Yeah, but I think we should limit ourselves to...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u365	I didn't interrupt too much tonight. You complimented me on that during the suspension. I would like to make this point. The Minister also said he doesn't know what to do with the rest of his evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u366	No, no, no, we're not worried about that. You've had your three interruptions in the second round. I don't think we should open the discussion. We must now come to a business agreement on what we are doing with this motion. To that end, I would like to invite you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u367	I will consider what I will do with the motion. And that wonderful project Stroomaccelerate, isolating the homes, the role of network companies and pension funds with the present value we save for the next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u368	That's a very long clause, but it's clear. We await your final decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u369	I have already said to Mr Vos that I share his enthusiasm for the Rapids project. I use the very first opportunity I can create in Groningen to get industrial production going, with 1,650 homes. The companies that need to get industrial production going are really happy about that. I'm willing to drive rents across the country on a larger scale. I'm also willing to include the properties. In short, I am quite willing to disagree occasionally with Mr Vos, but in this case they are hardly present.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u370	That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u371	I will come to the moment when I have finished my reaction. I would like to thank the Chamber for the opportunity it has given me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-28.u372	I hope the time is not such that you look at the clock with despair and wonder: what am I going to do now? This brings us to the end of the debate on the proposal for a directive on electricity and gas. Thank you all for your input, your commitment, your interest, including in the public gallery, and for your support. The vote on the amendments, the legislative proposal and the motions is scheduled for Tuesday 13 October. I wish you all a pleasant conclusion to a working day.
