ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. The CDA calls on the Minister to stop experimenting in the Oostvaardersplassen. The situation is becoming increasingly acute for the animals that live there. It's supposed to be pure nature, but they're sitting behind a fence and they're suffering while we're watching. For example, there is not enough food and the animals are regularly in the cold water. They suffer unnecessarily under these circumstances that we humans can influence. Like the veterinary trade association, the CDA considers that the grazers in the Oostvaardersplassen suffer in an unacceptable way. The CDA has reported this before, but the cabinet is deaf and deaf. If these practices were to occur in the regular livestock sector, the world would be turned upside down and we would have an urgent debate this afternoon. I've been called by people who saw the dead animals lying on the train. When I saw the footage myself, I thought they were recorded in a desert area. This just can't go on. The CDA asks the Minister what he is going to do this week to prevent the unnecessary suffering of animals in this reserve. The CDA still wants two things. Firstly, it wants the advice of the veterinarians to get the heck cattle out of the area to be followed quickly. Secondly, the CDA wants the remaining animals to be substantially reduced. Is the Minister prepared or will he continue to experiment with the animals in the Oostvaardersplassen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. I am here to replace my colleague Mrs Dijksma. Quite a coincidence, last Saturday, I was in the Oostvaardersplassen for a few hours. So what Mr Geurts has put forward also lives with me. Mr Geurts speaks of an opinion given by the veterinarians, but he is also undoubtedly aware of the fact that we have had an international committee twice to see which management could best take place there. You have the possibility of active management and of reactive management. This latter form of management can take place reactive or reactive at an early stage. There was late reactive management. We are at one point, after a second opinion of an international committee in 2010, the committee has both been led by former CDA Secretary of State Gabor........................................................................................................................................ This means that animals are fired as soon as they are seen to be in trouble in winter. That is how it works at the moment. Almost all the animals that die in the Oostvaardersplassen area die from gunshots. That percentage is about 99. The animals that are shot are mostly red deer, but also horses. The heck cattle aren't very common. In the last three months, in other words, two heck cattle have died in December, January and February. One of them died of natural causes. The other animal has been shot. This does not, therefore, indicate that there are major problems with heck cattle at the moment, in so far as there is already a major problem. A total of 437 animals died every three months: 429 animals died from gunshots, 8 died from natural causes. That's the situation in the area. We've had international advice twice. A further opinion from the Management Advisory Committee will now be added. That advice has now been received. Last week, the Secretary of State discussed this with State Forestry and Flevoland. Next week, she will take a decision on that opinion and that consultation. She will inform the Chamber in a letter. I hope that the Chamber, if it so wishes, will be available to discuss this matter with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-6.u3	I am pleased that the Minister has looked at the area with his own eyes. I've been able to do that a few times. My point, however, is that animals suffer unnecessarily there. At the moment there are animals in the water, not because they want to, but because this area is so full. It is not for nothing that the veterinarians' profession makes such an urgent appeal to the Ministry and the Cabinet to act quickly. She's proposing to take the heck cattle out of the area. I understand from the Minister that next week we will be able to receive a letter from the cabinet indicating how this matter is handled. My question to the Minister now is what will happen in the short term. I see pictures on Twitter and in other ways they come to me and those pictures show that the animals have already begun to eat the barking of trees. Then we're talking about nature. Nature is destroyed by nature. It needs action quickly. When will the Minister take responsibility for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-6.u4	Just the fact that animals eat the bosses of trees doesn't mean it's wrong. Animals that build up a fat reserve in the summer use that reserve in winter, but they have to keep their entire intestinal system going; that means they also eat things that have no nutritional value, but which are necessary for them to go into the summer in a good way. The picture of animals suffering unnecessarily is not confirmed by the facts. If it is seen that animals come into a situation where they suffer and do not survive winter in a good way, then those animals will be shot. Your conclusion that there would be something wrong with the heck cattle in particular is not supported by the facts either. The rifle takes place in particular at the red deer and the king's beard. As far as heck cattle are concerned, there has only been a three-month discharge and an animal which has died of natural causes. I therefore believe that there is every reason to wait a week for the Secretary of State to make its decision, based on the advice given by the Management Advisory Committee, which is partly based on the consultations she has held with, among other things, the province of Flevoland.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-6.u5	I understand that we are not getting any further on this matter this afternoon and that I have to be patient until the Secretary of State comes up with a letter. In general, I have patience, but the point is that these animals are suffering right now. The vets are making an urgent call. I hope that the cabinet will take swift action and that we will not receive a reprieve letter on this report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-6.u6	I am always very happy when people here in the Chamber are very worried about animal welfare, but then the question is always: is it a fair story? Or are you just arguing for the opening of the hunt like the CDA does? Or do you say shame that animals cannot migrate while you have stopped the connection to the Veluwe? I have a question for the Minister about the recommendations in the report he is talking about. Twice an international committee has advised and it is clear that there must be links to other nature reserves. The deletion of the plans for the OostvaardersWold is no longer compatible with a good commitment to the welfare of the animals in the Oostvaardersplassen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-6.u7	On the eve of a decision by the Secretary of State on this point on the basis of a third interesting opinion which she has received over the years, I do not wish to comment on it in general terms. As far as the links with other land are concerned, I think that an important element is the fact that animals must be able to find shelter, both in winter and in summer. That's what you do in a forest. When managing that forest area, you have to take that into account. Forest areas should also be opened up. I say to Mrs Ouwehand through you, Madam President, that this element will also be clearly reflected in the decision next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-6.u8	Mrs Ouwehand, your group's second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-6.u9	It is good to hear that the Minister knows that shelter is important. I ask him to convey the following to the Secretary of State. The opening up of Dutch Wood has always been blocked by, for example, parties who now speak of shame, the CDA and the VVD. It must remain clear that the recommendation contained in those two reports from the Gabor Committee, that a wider connection to larger nature areas, the Veluwe, is not simply wiped off the table by new insights from a much smaller club. That recommendation has been there for years and not for nothing. I think that if the welfare of the animals in the Oostvaardersplassen is worth something, you have to keep fighting for it, including the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-6.u10	I hope that Mrs Ouwehand when she talks about 'a smaller club' does not talk about the VVD. I assume she's talking about the vets. I'll pass her opinion on to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-03-tweedekamer-6.u11	Thank you for your answers. You may stay for a while, because the following questions are also put to the Minister for Economic Affairs by Mrs Schouten of the Christian Union.
