ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u1	I have already welcomed the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. As you said, today we are dealing with bill No. 32402 which deals with rules to promote the quality of care and the treatment of complaints and disputes in healthcare, the Wkkgz. The members of the CDA Group welcome the government's desire to focus on improving the quality of care and to ensure good, safe, timely, accessible and affordable care for all clients, as well as the cabinet's commitment to greater coherence and efficiency. Members also support the desire to make care more customer-oriented. Of course, the CDA Group attaches great importance to ensuring the rights of clients and a proper complaint and dispute procedure. The members therefore support the Minister's intention to improve the quality of care and the handling of complaints and disputes. The legislative proposal has been a difficult one. The law is a continuation of the previously submitted bill of law on Client Rights in Care (Wcz), which aims to merge the rights and obligations of the client and the healthcare provider into one new legal regime. This bill raised so many questions that it stopped in the Lower House. In April 2013, the Minister submitted the third letter of amendment limiting the original bill to only the quality, complaints and disputes elements. Since July 2013 it has been in the Upper House for treatment. In the case of an offer, the text was so complicated and unclear that the Chamber asked for a new full explanation. The Minister stated that the rewriting of a new explanatory statement after the end of the examination in the Lower House was no longer possible, since the articles were subject to exchange of documents, including the Acts, during the parliamentary procedure. According to the Minister, the creation of a new text could be accompanied by 'falsification'. Where the Ministry with so many officials can offer the explanatory notes only as an accumulation, institutions, individual care providers and patients are deemed to understand and implement this bundling of hundreds of pages of texts, commentary comments effortlessly. There has rarely been a legislative proposal in which the Council of State has so explicitly asked fundamental questions about the cause and the necessity. The Council is convinced that client rights in the Netherlands are legally well secured and sees no need for this far-reaching review. The Council is in favour of making better use of the available instruments. We rarely saw a bill on which we were sent so many fundamental concerns from so many organizations, on so many points. Institutions, individual care providers, patient organisations and their national domes raise serious objections in the design and elaboration of the bill. In fact, there are only positive-critical signals from consumer and customer organisations, although they also consider that the law needs to be amended because of the unclear definitions, because of the uncertainty that remains with this legislative proposal about the right of complaint in the municipal domain and the chain care, because of the unclearness to which complaint should be submitted and to which dispute body a complaint may eventually be brought or should be brought. After all, it is always possible for different healthcare providers to be associated with different dispute bodies. Those are quite fundamental things. It is too easy to say that caregivers and organisations who express objections are afraid of cold water. The resistance is not in unwillingness to work more patient-oriented or to improve the functioning of the complaint law. It is not a question of misunderstanding, as the Minister would suggest. The field I mean, among other things, the university medical centers, the Dutch Association of Hospitals, the Association of Disabled People, the KNMG, the Order of Medical Specialists, the Association of insurers, the National Family Medical Association and all other primary organizations, from dentists and dental hygienists to obstetricians, from physiotherapists to psychologists have read the bill and see what it will mean for them in practice. They are supported in this vision by the Council of State and Actal. The Minister has a different view of reality. Mrs (CDA): We rarely saw a law on which there is a difference of vision between the minister and the field on so many fundamental points. Let me mention three points, although there are more. First of all, the rule pressure. The minister hardly expects an increase in regulatory pressure, but the field fears serious increase and also Actal. Actal writes that not all elements of control pressure have yet been taken into account in the latest calculations of the Ministry of the Interior or Sira. Actal raises questions about the proportionality of the legislative proposal for the first line of action, which is given the same bureaucratic obligations as large institutions and raises questions about the proportionality of implementation obligations. Actal even suggested reconsidering the bill. Mr. Chairman. As you said, today we are dealing with bill No. 32402 which deals with rules to promote the quality of care and the treatment of complaints and disputes in healthcare, the Wkkgz. The members of the CDA Group welcome the government's desire to focus on improving the quality of care and to ensure good, safe, timely, accessible and affordable care for all clients, as well as the cabinet's commitment to greater coherence and efficiency. Members also support the desire to make care more customer-oriented. Of course, the CDA Group attaches great importance to ensuring the rights of clients and a proper complaint and dispute procedure. The members therefore support the Minister's intention to improve the quality of care and the handling of complaints and disputes. The legislative proposal has been a difficult one. The law is a continuation of the previously submitted bill of law on Client Rights in Care (Wcz), which aims to merge the rights and obligations of the client and the healthcare provider into one new legal regime. This bill raised so many questions that it stopped in the Lower House. In April 2013, the Minister submitted the third letter of amendment limiting the original bill to only the quality, complaints and disputes elements. Since July 2013 it has been in the Upper House for treatment. In the case of an offer, the text was so complicated and unclear that the Chamber asked for a new full explanation. The Minister stated that the rewriting of a new explanatory statement after the end of the examination in the Lower House was no longer possible, since the articles were subject to exchange of documents, including the Acts, during the parliamentary procedure. According to the Minister, the creation of a new text could be accompanied by 'falsification'. Where the Ministry with so many officials can offer the explanatory notes only as an accumulation, institutions, individual care providers and patients are deemed to understand and implement this bundling of hundreds of pages of texts, commentary comments effortlessly. There has rarely been a legislative proposal in which the Council of State has so explicitly asked fundamental questions about the cause and the necessity. The Council is convinced that client rights in the Netherlands are legally well secured and sees no need for this far-reaching review. The Council is in favour of making better use of the available instruments. We rarely saw a bill on which we were sent so many fundamental concerns from so many organizations, on so many points. Institutions, individual care providers, patient organisations and their national domes raise serious objections in the design and elaboration of the bill. In fact, there are only positive-critical signals from consumer and customer organisations, although they also consider that the law needs to be amended because of the unclear definitions, because of the uncertainty that remains with this legislative proposal about the right of complaint in the municipal domain and the chain care, because of the unclearness to which complaint should be submitted and to which dispute body a complaint may eventually be brought or should be brought. After all, it is always possible for different healthcare providers to be associated with different dispute bodies. Those are quite fundamental things. It is too easy to say that caregivers and organisations who express objections are afraid of cold water. The resistance is not in unwillingness to work more patient-oriented or to improve the functioning of the complaint law. It is not a question of misunderstanding, as the Minister would suggest. The field I mean, among other things, the University Medical Centers, the Dutch Association of Hospitals, the Association of Disabled People, the KNMG, the Order of Medical Specialists, the Association of insurers, the National Family Medical Association and all other primary organizations, from dentists and dental hygienists to obstetricians, from physiotherapists to psychologists, the field has read the bill and sees what it will mean for them in practice. They are supported in this vision by the Council of State and Actal. The Minister has a different view of reality. We rarely saw a law on which there is a difference of vision between the minister and the field on so many fundamental points. Let me mention three points, although there are more. First of all, the rule pressure. The minister hardly expects an increase in regulatory pressure, the field fears serious increase and also Actal. Actal writes that not all elements of control pressure have yet been taken into account in the latest calculations of the Ministry of the Interior or Sira. Actal raises questions about the proportionality of the legislative proposal for the first line of action, which is given the same bureaucratic obligations as large institutions and raises questions about the proportionality of implementation obligations. Actal even suggested reconsidering the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. I have a question. Mrs Martens mentions a large number of gremia from the field who have sent letters of concern and questions. It does not mention the other gremia which have expressed support in letters. I'm thinking about the Consumer Union. I won't go into all that gremia any further, but there are quite a few of them. For the sake of balance, it might be good to take note of that. If you look at what the objections are about, they relate, among other things, to the framing of the law. However, if the law does not frame one point, it is the freedom to opt for a dispute committee and to set it up, for example with regional general practitioners. I think what Mrs Martens says is somewhat contradictory. On the one hand, it pays a great deal of attention to those who feel framed, but on the other, it objects to those points on which the law offers freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u4	I will come back to a number of issues relating to freedom, but it is true that consumer and client organisations are advocating this law. That is what I said, although these organisations also criticize the way the law works and what it says. These organisations are convinced that their position will be improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u5	There are a large number of them, but Mrs Martens does not mention them all. For the sake of balance, it might be good to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u6	That's fine. Then I come to the second point, the Disputes Committee. The dispute committees in the Wkkgz have the task of giving a binding opinion on complaints and claims. Both the field and the Council of State warn about the consequences of the linking of both, which also require quite different expertises. They fear legalisation and the promotion of a claim culture. The field fears medicalisation and believes that the Wkkgz leads to defensive medicine, with the high risk that the costs for health care will increase further. If, after a failed mediation, you immediately arrive at a dispute body that has to judge both the complaint and the claim, you are more likely to prescribe things to prevent complaints and claims. Can the Minister state again whether clients should submit the complaint and claim at the same time or whether they can wait for the binding opinion on the complaint? If the complaint is well founded, can they still ask the Disputes Commission for a binding opinion on the claim? The bill only mentions the procedure for the appointment of arbitration committees. There is nothing arranged about composition, expertise, independence, quality etc. From the world of the Disputes Committees, fear of wild growth and price displacement sounds. They would like to see good conditions laid down, particularly with regard to the organisation's establishment and professionalism. I'd like a response from the Minister. Have we understood correctly to the Minister that the resolution of disputes is not entrusted exclusively to the SGC? The third point, the deadlines. The Wkkgz reduces the time limit within which a complaint must have been dealt with to 6 weeks. In the eyes of many, this period is not always feasible, especially in holiday periods and in complex cases. Departure is allowed in consultation. However, this leads to additional consultation and bureaucracy by and for the caregivers and the client is disappointed in his expectations of the deadline, while there are hardly any complaints about deadlines and clients usually consider careful treatment more important than the deadline. There have been three written questions about this bill. The members of the CDA Group thank the Minister for her comments. Unfortunately, this does not entirely reassure Members. The field sees problems, the minister doesn't. Looks like a well-nothing discussion. Such a discussion is not very fruitful here. However, it underlines the concerns about the drafting of the law. We would like to hear from the Minister again what arguments she would like to convince the critics. There is already a right of complaint, which also works satisfactorily in many cases, albeit not everywhere. The fact that there are relatively few cases before a dispute panel or judge shows that, as the Council of State also writes, the current Act, the Wklcz, offers sufficient opportunity to resolve complaints properly. The Minister also notes that the handling of complaints by many healthcare providers is already working well. Complaint handling in primary care has been evaluated as well as sufficient by healthcare professionals and patients even in 2013. Can the Minister explain why she is opting for a new law, with new definitions, new procedures and new obligations, for only a limited part of the healthcare sector, and with a great deal of burden increases, including for those who already work well? Why does it not follow the advice of the Council of State and the IGZ to make better use of the existing instruments, especially since the Minister wants to encourage low-level informal mediation procedures?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u7	Mr. Chairman. Here, too, for balance. Is Mrs Martens aware that there are evaluations of the already existing Quality Act healthcare institutions, including by ZonMw, where the law has been negatively evaluated? Those who complained felt that the complaints were not being handled properly and that it took too long. There were doubts about the impartiality and independence of complaints committees. There are also those evaluations, in addition to those mentioned by Mrs Martens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u8	I told you, things aren't going well. I have summarized that a little bit less, but there are places where it is indeed not going well. That does not alter the fact that there are many places, as the Minister also writes, where things are going well. It is now a question of whether the existing instruments, the legal instruments, provide sufficient targets for improvement, or whether, given what is not going well, there is every reason for radical change, with new definitions, new procedures and new obligations for a limited part of the healthcare sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u9	This line of thinking occurred about 12 years ago around the evaluations of that time. I mentioned the SunMw evaluation. Those were negative assessments of the current law. That is precisely why we are now putting in place a legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u10	This change of law started in 2008. However, this does not alter the fact that, in 2015, the Minister himself notes that a lot is going well. Something happened between 2008 and now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u11	That's right, but when you look at the evaluations, you see that it's going particularly well in those places where work is already being done in the way proposed in the present law, the way everyone has to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u12	This can already be done with the legislation in force. That's crucial. That is why I am looking forward to the Minister's reply. However, new procedures, new definitions and new burdens will also be imposed on those who are already working well. That's one of our concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u13	It can be partly according to the current law, but at the moment there can be no work without a complaints committee. So you can't work entirely according to this law right now. You need to have a complaint board now. Soon there will be the freedom to have or not to have that committee. The places where things are going well now are places where complaints officers are present. This law regulates precisely that we no longer have to have a complaints committee. Instead one is confronted with a complaint officer, a human being of flesh and blood who can look at and listen to the patient. So it does go well in many places, but those are the places where it happens according to this law. That is therefore a very good reason to support this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u14	That is why I am curious about the Minister's response, because that is precisely where we have questions. The current complaints committees are low-threshold, cheap and independent, and I come back to this even more precisely, and in many cases I know how to avoid going to court or a dispute committee, to which many institutions are now affiliated. The problem is not that there should be a complaint officer, or that I will come to speak later on, who can mediate; that is a good thing. Low-threshold mediation is one of the things that is very important and deserve attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u15	I call Mr Bruijn, who will speak later. Maybe he can take his interruption with him in his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u16	I'll be brief now. The complaint officer won't be able to get there anytime soon. That is what the present law provides for. Where things are going well, enlargement is taking place. Mrs Martens spoke of bureaucracy. She made one point: if you yourself exceed the agreed time limit under your own responsibility, you have to discuss whether you will get the room for it. The law gives all the room for that, by the way. If we want to look at bureaucracy, we have to compare the total of this law with the total of the current legislation after it has been introduced. That's what Sira's been investigating. This shows that the total charge increase is €100 per healthcare provider. That seems to me to be an acceptable price, given the quality that comes back. How does Mrs Martens view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u17	Sira Consulting made a reading. That was the measurement that was also discussed in the Lower House. Then there were two updates. Actal also reviewed the second update and found that not everything was included. The estimate is that the costs and charges will be much higher than €100.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u18	Not so much higher that we should refuse this quality improvement on that basis?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u19	I am curious to hear from the Minister exactly where she sees the improvement in quality when much is going well. I will come back later to discuss what else the Complaints Commission is doing. The aim is to eliminate the legal basis for complaint handling, low-threshold, cheap and with a learning capability aspect. A dispute committee, which is at a greater distance, may give a binding opinion, but a course to the judge I shall also come to speak about it, which is limited to a purely procedural one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u20	So if it is a quality improvement, could it cost a little more? I understand that from the words of Mrs Martens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u21	Depends on the proportions. I will continue my speech. The new law leads to obligations for only a limited part of the sector and increases the burden on those who are already working well. The question is why a new law is necessary if the Minister is to encourage, above all, low-threshold informal mediation procedures. We would also like to know what is not possible now, which is made possible by the legislative proposal before us. Can the Minister explain again why she does not want to embrace the proposal of the National General Medical Association? It proposes first to follow a mandatory route of complaint mediation. If the mediation fails, a course will follow to a complaints committee, which gives binding advice on the health complaint. If the complaint is justified, a course may follow to the Disputes Commission, which makes a binding ruling on the claim. Afterwards, the possibility of appeal to the judge and disciplinary board remains open. In addition, there is, of course, an independent complaint officer in support of clients. We should like to receive a response from the Minister on this point. Is the Minister prepared to make an exception for first-line care, now that the complaint handling has been evaluated in 2013 and has been found to be more than sufficient, and has Actal also had questions about the proportionality of the burden increase for first-line care? On two points, we would like to draw attention to the impact on clients and the coherence of the regulation. First, a comment on the securities for the clients. The Council of State considers that the rights of clients are not strengthened by the Wkkgz and that the relationship of trust between the physician and the patient is under pressure. We support the arrival of a mandatory mediator. In the bill, that's the complaint officer. However, if it is presented at the same time as someone who is mainly there to assist the client, we wonder whether this will not make the mediation task more difficult. Intermediaries are supposed to be neutral. Why has it not been chosen that clients should be entitled to an expert, independent trust, as in psychiatry? How customer-friendly is it if a client is left alone after a failed mediation attempt? After that, the role of the complaint officer was played out, although he may still be able to advise on the possibilities for a further procedure. How customer-friendly is it if, after a binding advice, a client no longer has a de facto appeal option, because the court is supposed to check the binding advice only on a procedural basis? How customer-friendly is it if the Wkkgz de facto abolishes the current legal basis for a mandatory, accessible, inexpensive, internal, independent complaint procedure through the complaint committees, close care provider and client? This procedure often appears to prevent escalation in practice, as is evident from the small number of cases where the step is now taken to a dispute settlement committee or the judge. Why does the Minister consider external disputes committees, possibly regional ones, to be more low-threshold than the current complaints committees? In addition, the complaints committees are now making recommendations whereby the healthcare professional is legally obliged to indicate within one month what measures he has taken. With the Wkkgz, this legal basis for an organisation's learning ability or a health care provider lapses. Dispute authorities do not make recommendations, while clients like to be heard and want to prevent the same from happening to others. The bill aims to provide an impetus for improving care, but deletes a legal basis for learning ability. The second point that we are calling for attention to be made is the coherence of legislation. The proposal aims to bring greater coherence into the legislation, but the members of the CDA Group see more fragmentation than coherence. After all, the Wkkgz does not apply to the whole healthcare sector and in relation to chain care there is still much unclear. With the Wkkgz different definitions apply in the different areas of care, for example those for "client supporter" and "good care." With the Wkkgz, "good care" is no longer based solely on the duties of the healthcare provider or on the professional standard, but also on the rights of the client. Good care should also be provided through the Wkkgz "in line with the client's real needs." This is a subjective dimension, which may even sometimes run counter to a professional standard. The legislative proposal also does not clarify the meaning and definition of this concept. Is the Minister prepared to formulate the definition in such a way that it will automatically conform to the definition developed by the Healthcare Institute in due course, so that the same definitions will apply throughout the healthcare sector? Can the Minister also ensure that client organisations are involved in the development of future definitions? With the Wkkgz there will be a mandatory complaint officer. In other legislation, names are used as a "compulsory client confidence person," a "complaint intermediary" and a "patient confidence person." The Minister felt that these functions could be combined. It is said from patient organisations that this is not possible and desirable because of the different interests and requirements that are imposed on it. With the Wkkgz, various healthcare providers are therefore subject to different complaint laws. What do you mean, more coherence? The members are also very curious to see how the Minister sees the supervision of the IGZ over the 40,000 new caregivers of so-called "other care." Can IGZ take action in case of malicious alternative care providers? Does the IGZ have sufficient expertise and adequate testing criteria in this area? The providers of "other care" do not have to provide "good care," but only "care that does not harm." Does this definition provide sufficient targets for a real assessment? And does the IGZ get more money and more resources? A register will be created which will include all healthcare providers, including the providers of the so-called "other care." The register is explicitly not intended as a guarantee of quality. Members would like to see the function of the register clarified once again. Finally, Mr President, as has already been said, the members of the CDA Group wholeheartedly support the intention of the legislative proposal. Our group is also keen to see customer-oriented care and easy-to-access, informal complaint and dispute settlement. MEPs also support the desire to encourage improvements in health care. An important tool for this is learning ability. We have read the bill, the Minister's answers, all reactions and documents with attention and have spoken with many interested parties. Now that much is going well and there is so much criticism of the bill, Members are concerned whether the bill will not throw the child away with the bath water. Doesn't the cure get worse than the ailment? Mr President, I am well within my time, because my last sentence is: Members are looking forward to the Minister's response with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u22	Mrs Martens says in her contribution that the Disputes Committee is not more easily accessible than the Complaints Committee. I certainly agree with parts of this and I will agree with them. However, I wonder whether she is not creating a bit of a deception, because it is not claimed anywhere that the Committee on Disputes would be more low-threshold than the Committee on Complaints. That would be the same as saying: the judge we have now is no more low-threshold than the complaints committee. Nor is that the step taken by this bill, as far as I understand it. Instead of the compulsory complaints committee, we get a complaint officer, who is of course more low-threshold than the complaints committee. Apart from the course to the court, which always remains possible, we get an extra choice for the client, the consumer, I always like to call him patient, namely the Disputes Committee, which the patient might consider to be his preference, because there is expertise behind the table. If you say that the Committee on Disputes is not more low-threshold than the Committee on Complaints, then I think you are wrong about this law and you are actually creating the wrong picture of the law. How does Mrs Martens feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u23	This law is intended for a more accessible resolution of complaints. It can only be that the course to the Disputes Committee is intended for this purpose. That's how it can be read in the pieces. The Minister may be able to explain that. In any case, the settlement of complaints as it is at present is at a very low level. That's also a very good thing for clients. As far as the complaint officer is concerned, many complaints committees already work with mediation. Someone's already in there, so that's not a problem. But the complaints committee is already saying a little bit more about the complaint itself. So it's not just mediation. That seems to me to be a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u24	Mr Bruijn, this is your last interruption, I presume.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u25	Yes, Mr. Chairman. In any case, we agree that the complaint officer is more low-threshold than the complaints committee. We also agree that options are now being extended to the courts. This is the next step. There is not only the possibility of going from court to court, but on top of that the choice to go to the Disputes Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u26	We disagree on this, because the step to the judge actually becomes a wash nose. In fact, the judge is only allowed to carry out a procedural review after a binding opinion. So the hallway to the judge stays open, but what's the judge gonna test? The procedure. Otherwise, the Minister will have to explain it again. That is how I understood it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u27	No, the process to court remains completely open, but the consumer can also choose not to go to court, but to a dispute committee. Of course, once you choose to go to a dispute committee, you cannot also refer the same matter to the judge. That has been the case for a long time in the whole of justice. That's not the issue here. The issue is that in addition to going to court, which is now the only option, you now also have the option of choosing from the course to the Disputes Committee. The case as a whole becomes more low-threshold, because you get a complaint officer instead of a complaints committee. That's the move.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u28	I'd like to hear the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u29	I would like to join in on this. In my view, the complaint intermediary or official is more low-threshold than the complaints committee. The Disputes Committee is more accessible than the judge. It is a question of simplifying legislation twice, rather than making it more complex. Of course it goes well in many places, but it also leads to clarity. Mrs Martens says that everything is going very well, but at the same time client organisations say that things are not always going well everywhere. They would like a clear regulation for all caregivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u30	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u31	My question to Mrs Martens is: why do you find the bill more complex?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u32	It makes the case more complex because it works with new definitions and new procedures. Moreover, I mention the combination of complaint and claim. It also becomes more complex because of the pressure of regulation. All that while in many cases things are going well. The crucial question is whether the existing instruments do not already provide sufficient basis for good, easily accessible complaints. Does it offer sufficient leads for the improvement of care? Learning ability and reducing the claim culture are important aspects when it comes to the quality of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u33	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing a legislative proposal which, in its current form, is the result of the parliamentary treatment of the Client Rights Care Bill (Wcz) submitted in 2010. The Wcz was in preparation since 2007, partly following a call from the Patient Federation NPCF. That was the base. The members of the VVD Group agree with the aim of the bill, which is to make the care more client-oriented, provide for a low-threshold complaint procedure through informal complaint handling and mediation, and increase the quality of care through greater openness on rapport and learning of rapport incidents and complaints. The members of my group and those of other groups have asked questions about the need for this law. The government has given several reasons to adapt the legal framework aimed at quality of care and complaints and disputes. The current complaint law clients care sector (Wklcz) has been negatively evaluated in a large number of evaluations. In particular, clients experience complaints committees as biased. The handling of a complaint takes too long and the judgment "grounded" or "ungrounded" is perceived as unsatisfactory. The course to civil justice is often not an alternative for financial and procedural reasons, according to these studies. The "Quality of professional activity" chapter of the BIG Act does not apply to solo-working healthcare providers without a protected title, while this number is growing sharply. There are also no legal requirements regarding quality, complaints and disputes for providers of cosmetic interventions and alternative medicinal products. The IGZ has too few powers here. There are insufficient safeguards to protect the health care provider himself. The definition of responsible care is outdated. The reporting obligations for healthcare providers at the IGZ are too limited. This also applies to the file obligation in the WGBO, which does not regulate the note of an incident. The government has all supported the fact that better use of available instruments, rather than a legislative amendment, is not sufficient, as it concerns non-existent obligations and safeguards in current legislation and suppliers that do not fall within the scope of current legislation. The members of the VVD Group thank the Minister for his written reply. The members of my group also thank the involved field parties, some of whom are present, including both supporters and opponents, such as the Consumers' Union, the KNMG and many others, for their valuable discussions and contributions. We have taken good note of their arguments. The members of my group still have a few additional questions. Our first question concerns the regulatory burden. The regulatory burden and position of small-scale healthcare providers have been discussed extensively in the written procedure. It is clear that several industry organisations of small healthcare providers have now jointly organised a complaints committee for their members. Following the entry into force of the Wkkgz, these members may also establish the compulsory complaint officer and the connection with the dispute body through their interbranch organisation. In the further reply, the Minister indicated that in the implementation path for the Wkkgz, it will explicitly take into account how small-scale healthcare providers can meet the requirements of the Wkkgz and how they can minimise the administrative burden. This can be done, for example, by jointly organising a complaint officer with other providers or by providing a model for the safe reporting of incidents for small healthcare providers, which minimises the administrative burden. How does the Minister expect, with all due respect, that the implementation costs for the small healthcare provider in particular will develop? Is it prepared to include this aspect in the review of this law, which was announced five years after its entry into force, and to inform this Chamber accordingly? I'd like a commitment. My next point concerns judicialisation. In the written preparation, the members of my group have asked questions about possible judicialisation and increasing the number of claims, as pointed out by, among others, the Royal Netherlands Society for the Promotion of Medicine (KNMG). There are fears that a risk of judicialisation of the doctor-patient contact may arise if a financial compensation of a failure in the provision of care becomes possible or even a habit. On the other hand, the judge can already impose financial compensation and the now functioning complaints officers are more likely to dejure themselves, by resolving cases by mutual agreement. Moreover, thanks to an article in Medical Contact, our specialist journal, dated 10 September last, it was revealed that the fear of judicialisation was based on the assumption that a dispute settlement committee could issue fines. That assumption seems wrong. This also remained undisputed in further consultation with the author, who, by the way, has been corrected very correctly by my group. If this inaccuracies can be confirmed, it is clear that at least part of the care for judicialisation can be taken away by virtue of that article. I shall come back to that later when I talk about the powers of the arbitration body.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u34	Isn't "juridate" and "fee" meant to be a speech error, because it's about the claim? This therefore remains the risk of legalisation: a fine cannot, but the claim allocation does, and it remains.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u35	I would have thought so, too, but in the article, an important article in an important journal, the very first word in the head of the article was "fine." There is therefore no doubt that it is indeed a question of fines, not of claims, not of complaints and not of other procedures. It's about fines. Fortunately, we can take care away, because further research shows that the Disputes Committee cannot issue fines. That's good news for everyone. The concern which was based on the assumption that litigation committees can issue fines, quod non, can therefore be eliminated in any case. I think we are all happy about that as we are here. You too, Mrs. Martens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u36	Then the claim will stand. And you also know that headliners in the newspapers sometimes put something different than the text actually means to say. That is no longer a question, Mr President, but an observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u37	I'd like to go through the chairman. The procedure is the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u38	What Mrs Martens says is true. That is why we have contacted the author in question. At that time, the word "fine" turned out to be the way it was meant to be. It was not only the first word in the head, but also later in the article. Fortunately, the discussions we had with the author and a number of lawyers showed that the dispute committees cannot issue fines. Fortunately, this concern, on which this whole article was based, has been removed for at least a large part. I think we should all be very happy about that and that Mrs Martens should certainly be happy about that. We can sob each other in the arms about that, I'd almost say. The government has explained why it does not fear legalisation. Various studies show that people appreciate informal dispute resolution positively. In adjacent policy areas, the application of informal dispute resolution leads to a situation in which a large majority of clients are satisfied with the outcome of the settlement. In care, nursing, home and maternity care, and in mental health care, the dispute committees started in 2011 and 2013 respectively and so far there are no signs of claim culture or legalisation. In the construction sector, for example, it is interesting that it is precisely providers who explicitly include informal dispute resolution in their regular contract terms. In the case of enquiries, this appears to be the case, for example, because of the substantive expertise and often faster handling in those councils. There is no evidence that a committee of peers would award a claim more quickly than a judge. The question is also whether it would make sense to fear that. Some say the opposite is even more obvious. How does the Minister view this? Notwithstanding the above, the government has indicated its willingness to take this aspect into account in the review of this law five years after its entry into force, due to the number of questions raised about jurisdiction and the concerns that it raises in the field. I would like to ask the Minister to confirm this. I would also like to ask the Minister to forward the evaluation to this Chamber and to inform us in advance of the design of this evaluation. I would also like to ask the Minister what exactly will be measured in the zero measurement announced. Is this only about the number of claims per unit of time, or is it also looking at notifications, procedures, patient satisfaction and satisfaction among healthcare providers and healthcare providers? Finally, how does the Minister view the variant put forward by the National Family Doctors Association (LHV) and other means that the Complaints Committee makes a binding ruling after which the Disputes Committee determines the level of the claim? In this way, would it not be compulsory to allow the two bodies to co-exist, or even much more, in the interests of bureaucracy? Finally, I would like to ask the Minister to address in this debate the fear of undermining the willingness to report and the guarantees of the position of the caregivers, as highlighted by the KNMG and the Branch organisations in particular. For the moment, my group does not share that fear. My group does not think that a doctor acting according to his professional standard would change his actions because we get the Wkkgz. The question is also whether the doctor would be worth a snipe in front of him. I'm here to talk about the dispute settlement. In response to questions from my group, the government states in the further reply that a dispute settlement body offers a low-threshold alternative to the process of civil justice, which is perceived by many clients as too high a threshold. A step towards a more accessible provision. My group understands from the reply that the term 'alternative' must be read here in such a way that the existence of a complaint officer and a dispute body required by the Wkkgz for the care provider does not in any way affect the possibility of direct access to justice if the client chooses to do so. Can the Minister confirm this? I would also like to refer to the previous debate that I had with Mrs Martens on this subject. In order for this option to be de facto real, it is important that the client is explicitly given and explained this option, according to the members of my group. Does the Minister share this view? Can the Minister indicate how this will take shape?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u39	Do I understand that Mr Bruijn continues to refer to the Disputes Committee as being more low-threshold and that he also thinks that the course to court after conciliation is pleasant for the client? It's all meant to make it more low-threshold and bring it closer to the client. After the conciliation, the court will immediately proceed as an alternative to the dispute committees. In my view, the complaints committees allow for a low-threshold, internal and independent judgment, and the judge remains only for the passers-by. That's still something crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u40	I have said that the reply states that the Disputes Commission offers a low-threshold alternative to the course of civil proceedings.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u41	I would just like to emphasise that Mr Bruijn has just said that it is not intended for that purpose. Now he quotes from the reply that it is intended for that purpose, of which he has written a document.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u42	I'm afraid I'm being miscited right now, but I'm glad Mrs Martens is saying this. That gives me the opportunity to explain it again. The whole movement is towards more low-threshold. Instead of the compulsory complaints committee, we will have a compulsory complaint officer. In many places where everyone thinks it is well arranged, there is now a complaint officer. In the patient's experience, it is more low-threshold than the complaints committee. That's a move. The other movement is that instead of just going to court, we should now also be able to move from the corridor to a dispute committee. Then, of course, we should not compare the Committee on Disputes with the Committee on Complaints. After all, the complaints committee shifts to the complaint officer. The Disputes Committee will be added as an option next to the judge. According to some, the Disputes Commission is more accessible than the judge. I did not say that I experienced it myself, because I have no experience of it; I read that it is, according to some people. It is very important that the Disputes Committee has expertise on board; I do have experience with that. For example, in the construction sector, the providers choose to go to a dispute committee on a massive scale and not to the courts, precisely because of that expertise. If you were afraid of more claims, I wonder if a committee of peers, being the Disputes Committee, would be more inclined to grant a claim than the independent judge who, moreover, has little knowledge of the facts. Relatively little; let me be careful in my formulation. The whole movement is one of more low-threshold and more choice. I can't see it any other way unless we start comparing apples to pears. But then we also have to compare the current judge with the current complaints committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u43	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In order for the choice of the court to be de facto real, it is important that the client is explicitly given and explained this option. Does the Minister share this view? Can it indicate how this will be de facto shaped? This is all the more so since the choice of course to the Disputes Committee cuts off the possibility of a court dealing with the substance of the matter. After all, the binding opinion of the Disputes Commission can only be submitted to a court for a procedural review, as set out in the reply on page 44. We would like to hear the Minister's views on this. In this context, how does the Minister view the suggestions made from the field regarding the quality requirements to be set for the complaint officer? The Wkkgz requires healthcare providers to be members of an independent dispute settlement body that is competent to deal with disputes and can also impose damages up to €25,000 in any case. Does my group understand that claims for damages above €25,000 must always be brought before the ordinary court and that the arbitration body will declare itself unauthorized and inadmissible? The dispute body therefore treats both complaints with a claim for damages and complaints without a financial claim. The arbitration body shall carry out its task formally by delivering a binding opinion. In Article 20 of the Wkkgz, this has been legally translated into "judgment by binding opinion," according to my group, adopted within the meaning of Title 15, Book 7 of the Civil Code, Art. 7:900 and beyond, resulting in a settlement agreement. Can the Minister confirm this? This means that the parties are obliged to comply with the judgment of the arbitration body. It is not a judgment; it does not have an enforceable title. If a party fails to comply, it is at most possible to claim performance, but not to execute it. De facto, it can be seen as a judgment, because appeal is excluded and there is no further legal protection. The arbitration body may also mediate and facilitate the settlement of disputes between the parties. This is meant by "consultative tasks." In this case, the parties can still find a lasting solution to the dispute between themselves. In that case, a ruling on the basis of binding advice from the arbitration body is not necessary, but the parties themselves agree on the way in which the dispute is terminated. But even in cases where there is a claim for damages, the intermediary role of the dispute body is possible, especially when both parties want to continue with each other and to maintain or restore confidence in the relationship. Fortunately, the patient has the opportunity to submit claims and complaints at the same time, so that the complaints officer can talk to that patient about that whole package at once. And fortunately, that is not being pulled apart, so you would only get more procedures, more steps, more bureaucracy and more costs. Can the Minister confirm that the dispute body may impose a binding opinion but not a fine or a warning, because the dispute body is private and is not granted any powers by law? The last note following the report states that a ruling may include the imposition of a ban and the issuing of a "statement of rights." That has not been discussed before. Would the Minister care to comment on this? What could be the outcome of the Disputes Committee? With regard to the optimal composition of the Disputes Committee, the Minister states in the reply that it is dependent on various factors such as the type of complaint, the type of healthcare provider and the local circumstances. Fortunately, as I say in the direction of the CDA, there are also options here. At the time, this was perhaps a reason for the CDA to support this law in the Lower House. Given the wide scope of the legislative proposal and the multitude of complaints involved, it is therefore not intended to prescribe a single specific dispute settlement body. Fortunately, according to my group. According to the reply, the bill allows the parties themselves to fulfil this requirement in order to meet the local needs in accordance with the wishes of the parties and in the same way as in other sectors as the dispute committees or arbitration committees have. Does the Minister mean by the latter that both the client and the caregiver can influence the composition of the individual dispute settlement committee in question? How does the Minister see this in practice? The response continues with the argument that it is conceivable that the Foundation will assume the role of a dispute settlement body for a number of sectors. At the SGC, the chairman is always a judge, so that legal expertise is present. Does the Minister not believe that legal expertise should always be present, including in sectors where the SGC is not or is not involved? Is the Minister prepared to promote that a lawyer is always part of the committee, for example by including it in the AMvB on the recognition system? Is the Minister prepared to include this aspect in the legislative review? Is she prepared to put the said AMvB in front of this Chamber? My group awaits the Minister's response with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u45	I will give the floor to Mr Don, but first I will make a long phone call because it is his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u46	I am happy to give the floor to Mr Don, who, as has been said, will make his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u47	Mr. Chairman. With great pleasure I am here today, with a certain awe but also with due pride. Being first MP is an honor and a firm challenge, certainly to be spokesperson care of the SP Group. From home, I'm a psychiatric nurse. For a long time I have been working for the Salvation Army in Brabant and Limburg. In that position I meet people in daily life who have not been well lucky. People who somehow fall into our society and wash up with our organization. People without help, we say to the Army. People who need help and care because otherwise they won't make it. But also people who often get it back together, with support, with a social investment, to find another place in society. The search is long and sometimes things go wrong, but the keeper often wins. That inspires me. I believe in the self-power movement. In doing so, the use of client experience is used to support other clients, who are not yet ready for recovery, in their search. Moving forward together, that also fits very well with the party I am allowed to represent here. So much for some personal remarks, so you can post me. Let me now turn to the legislative proposal before us. I would just like to say honestly that, in the context of what I have just said, I am not very enthusiastic about that. What problem is this bill really a solution to? I do not yet see it, and I have the impression that I am not the only one, both inside and outside this Chamber. It's already an old bill. The first version is from 2010 and the current legislative proposal from 2013. The wearing time is long: an elephant dress, but the child is nevertheless not a beauty. The use of this bill is not so bad. The way in which we have now organised complaints, monitoring and quality fragmentedly should be improved. However, the question from the SP Group is whether the bill provides an appropriate answer to society's demand for an improvement in the position of the client. The client organisations such as the Consumer Association, Patient Federation NPCF, Elke(in) and Healthcare Interest Netherlands are in favour. Improving the client's position is their main argument. In doing so, these organisations mainly look at the changes in the complaint law for clients. That's important to know. However, the majority of the inter-branch organisations in the care sector ask the First Chamber to reject the bill. That's not nothing and it's also something to take good note of. My group is surprised at the limited scope of the draft law. The Wmo with its local municipal developments does not fall within the scope of the Quality, Complaints and Disputes Care Act. This is reflected in the reply to the provisional report of 14 July 2014. I'm very sorry about that. Municipalities have the freedom to develop their own quality framework, complaint law as well as supervision under the Wmo. By excluding the Wmo, the Minister ignores the possibility of developing a framework law, which covers quality, complaint and supervision across all areas of care and therefore also applies to the Wmo. Such a framework could also give scope to the various professional and interest groups to further supplement the right of complaint and thus align it with the current practice of complaint handling. At a time when so many care tasks have been transferred to the municipality, I do not understand why the minister misses this opportunity. The citizen will soon have, if the bill were to become law, as an insured patient, the possibility of dispute resolution and a right of claim. This citizen may receive support from the same organisation as the participant, financed from the municipal Wmo budget. In that case, he'll just have to see if he'll settle his dispute and get his claim judged. In any case, not with the municipalities that have not included these possibilities of dispute settlement and claim assessment in their local regulation. Why this inequality? The Minister's choice to apply the bill only to the areas of care covered by the Health Insurance Act and the Long-Term Care Act also creates uncertainty for citizens, healthcare providers and workers in the first line. You will only have to provide care and support from different legal frameworks and various municipal regulations. The danger that the trees will stop seeing the forest seems to me to be real. How does the Minister see that? These were some of the points about which the legislative proposal does not go willingly and knowingly. I would also like to make a few comments on subjects which are part of the proposal. I think it is important that discontent, complaints and disputes are resolved as close to the source as possible. As far as we are concerned, that is a good idea from the Minister. The line is clear. For example, there is assistance from a complaint officer, a complaint regulation and a dispute committee. It is parts of the Wkkgz that should be organised by the healthcare provider and strengthen the client's position. However, what is the position of the healthcare provider when a complaint has been made against him or her? This remains unclear, despite the many questions raised by the trade associations and the First Chamber and the Minister's answers to them. A careful procedure is the basis for the complaint-solving dialogue which the Minister intends to pursue. However, there seems to be no guarantee for the health care provider in the draft law. Am I getting that right? What's the status of the court meeting? What does the Minister do to get closer to each other? A client's complaint, assistance from a complaint officer and an assessment of the complaint: this is the path set out in the bill. In a health care institution you can place this assessment of the complaint in a neutral manner with another section. But what about the primary care providers like the general practitioners? They have to judge the complaints against themselves, which I think is undesirable. How does the Minister see that? These are just two examples of a weak impact of the complaint procedure within the present draft law. There are also several comments to be made on the dispute procedure. Complaints and claims are different legal entities. However, the legislative proposal makes hardly any distinction in this respect. My group considers that this differentiation in the draft law is insufficient. Can the Minister explain her choice? I have another point of interest and one question. In the health and coercion bill that the First Chamber still has to deal with, the Minister explicitly opts for an independent complaints committee, hearing and hearing, appeal to the judge and compensation through the judge. In doing so, the complainant and the person against whom the complaint is addressed should be allowed to be heard. The right of complaint here is completely different from that of the Wkkgz. Of course, clients in forced situations deserve strong legal protection. But don't all clients deserve this? Doesn't the client's position crumble through different complaint procedures within different health care laws? My group believes so and wonders what the Minister thinks about it. My group appreciates the Minister's attempt to get a grip on the quality of care provided by alternative care providers. The registration of these healthcare providers in a register to be established and the supervision of the Health Inspectorate are steps to this end. My group wants to know from the Minister who will ensure that alternative care providers actually register and whether the IGZ has the knowledge and time to supervise the approximately 40,000 alternative care providers? I come to the end of my speech. The resistance from the professional field to the feasibility of this bill is strong. The inter-branch organisations and the client organisations seem to be almost opposite. This does not help the viability of the Wkkgz. It is clear that the SP Group is critical. I am not questioning the intention of the Minister with this bill. Good care, supervision and improvement of the position of the client is also the intention of the SP. We recognize the comments made by the client organisations. However, the Wmo falls outside the scope of the Wkkgz without good argument. The fragmentation of supervision, complaint and litigation opportunities for clients in the different areas of care continues to exist. Last Saturday, the NRC wrote: "Van Rijn wants research into dead in a problem family." It is a neglected family that seems to have been supported by the Wmo with a death in the municipality of Zoetermeer. The Secretary of State wants an investigation. Has that made the Secretary of State the conscience of the municipality? The city council is finally about the Wmo, isn't it? This is an example of this ambiguity. Who's gonna be talking about what in the end? To monitor the quality and feasibility of legislation is one of the special tasks that this Chamber imposes on itself, if I understand correctly. Let me therefore direct myself straight away in my first plenary speech. Looking over everything, I think this bill seems pretty messed up. That does not seem right to my group. The Group of the Party of European Socialists can imagine that several political groups feel this way and is, of course, also interested in the reaction of the government to our assessment of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u48	Mr. Don, will you stand still? Thank you. Congratulations on your maiden speech. May I briefly outline something of your background? You couldn't have gotten a better subject for a maiden speech than the bill we're talking about today. The quality of care and the position of the patient/client are close to your heart. Your professional roots are in health care and you are still active in this field, now as a driver. From 1980 to 1984 you followed the HBO course in nursing and you immediately started work in this field: first from 1984 to 1988 at the Department of Psychiatry at the Academic Hospital Utrecht and then from 1988 to 1993 as staff nurse at the Forensic and Observation Department of the Penitentiary Institution Amsterdam-Zuidoost, better known as the Bijlmerbajes. Then you shifted your attention to the policy side of the care. From 1990 to 1994 you studied Health Sciences at the Rijksuniversiteit Limburg in Maastricht and worked as an intake officer and care manager at GGZ Eindhoven from 1993 to 1999. In 1999 you became head of the Salvation Army in North Brabant and Limburg, a position you held until 2006. Your career in care was interrupted in 2006 when you switched to political governance. Your party, the SP, made a national profit of 175 council seats in the municipal elections that year and also converted them into aldermen's posts. From 2006 to 2010, you were therefore alderman for Welfare, Social Affairs, Wmo, Finance and Staff in Eindhoven. It was an interesting but also very difficult period for you, you yourself stated in an interview in June 2012 with BN DeStem: "I felt like a circus performer, you had to keep a lot of signs in the air." The headline of the interview was: "A line with God and with the SP." That first mentioned the fact that you have been working at the Salvation Army since 1999, an organization with a mission that comes from the Bible. On the question of the reporter whether you are also a bit of a Major Bosshardt, you replied: "Major Bosshardt is not equal, but wanting to help people who are in trouble, you'll find that with me." Your surroundings describe you as an engaged, driven and cheerful man, and frankly we have already come to know you a little bit. You are still working at the Salvation Army, since 2010 as director of the Wonen, Zorg en Welzijn Centre in North Brabant and Limburg. And if we have to believe the Internet encyclopedia Wikipedia, now it's coming, you've left the now politically. Wikipedia says: "Hans-Martin Don is a Dutch former politician." You know as well as I do that anyone can edit Wikipedia. Now I'm so curious who did this, but it's really there, at least, it was there yesterday. So it turns out again that you should not believe everything that is on the internet.This is a general statement.Because on June 9, 2015, you really joined the Upper House. Your maiden speech today is living proof of that! I wish you every success in your further contribution to the work of the Chamber. I shall suspend the sitting to give the House the opportunity to congratulate you on your maiden speech, but, as I say every time, I am the first to wish you luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u49	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would also like to publicly congratulate Mr Don on his maiden speech. The SP is, of course, a different party from the Christian Union, but the Salvation Army cannot break with us either. Mr. Chairman. By a long way, we are now reaching a bill that would initially only be part of a much broader law on customer rights in healthcare. The part that has been developed in this legislative proposal concerns complaints and disputes in the care sector, not participation and other aspects. The movement that has been put in place to strengthen the position and influence of clients in the care sector is important to my group. This is also reflected in our previous contributions to this Chamber and our commitment to empowering insured persons with health insurance. We will discuss this later in the legislative programme of this Minister. My group is sympathetic to the purpose of this proposal. If we look at its title, something has changed compared to the initial draft law. The legislative proposal we are debating today is specifically concerned with the quality of care. As far as we are concerned, this is not an aspect of this legislative proposal, but the framework within which the right of complaint, which has been revised, must function. The profit of this bill is that complaints and disputes are standardised and aligned with existing and future quality policies. The existing complaints regime has for a long time identified weaknesses. These relate to the informal nature of complaints schemes, the sometimes lack of trust in complaints committees, the dissatisfaction of clients with the handling of complaints and the difficult way in which disputes are handled. All this has led to the call for a legal framework, formalised procedures and a better guarantee of independence. In the asymmetrical relationship between doctor and patient, or between care provider and client, consideration should be given to the position of the weakest party. That's the patient or the patient. the client. After all, it's about his or her health, body and life. This position is now strengthened, inter alia by a right of appeal which was lacking in the old legislation. The new law obliges the healthcare provider to appoint a complaint officer. The client receives information on how a complaint can be lodged and if there is no outcome after a process of handling, the procedure is to scale up to a dispute body. The aim of the approach is to deal with a complaint close to the healthcare provider and, if possible, to resolve it there. Forms of mediation can be deployed early. This approach seems very appropriate to us: we must start with the situation that led to the complaint, address the people there and use the existing quality mechanisms there too. Now the Minister states that, in addition to the designated complaint officer, complaints committees can still exist. This is then done voluntarily, because there is no legal obligation to do so anymore. The need to maintain the complaints committees arises in situations where there has been satisfaction with the way things are going. My group has a question about the relationship between a still existing complaints committee and a complaint officer to be appointed. Satisfaction with a current regime does not necessarily mean that the client is really best served. The satisfaction of the current complaints committees can also be seen in the extent to which complaints can now be controlled. How will a complaints committee be related to the legally appointed complaint officer? For example, can healthcare providers first refer clients to their own complaints committee and then to the complaints officer? And what about the independence of the complaints officer, who is still appointed by the healthcare provider? I think it is important to talk in this debate about the quality requirements, the standards we set for the quality of the complaint officer. We would also like to ask the Minister what role she sees for possible ombudsmen in healthcare. They're developing, too. Can they be an alternative to the complaint treatment? In the written preparation, special attention has been paid to the smaller healthcare providers, the small self-employed or if one wishes: the soloists in the care. There has been talk of the regulatory burden of this item earlier this afternoon, and of the possible financial consequences that could weigh heavily here. But for small healthcare providers, the starting point must of course also be that their care is of good quality and that the client is in safe hands with them. Now the Minister says that she does not impose any further formal requirements if one only complies with the law and appoints a complaint officer. They can therefore implement the rules in their own way. What outcome is this going to lead to? What does this mean for small healthcare providers? We would like to hear more about this, as the Minister, after accepting this bill, is going to lay down rules for implementation. This law could result in a number of small healthcare providers falling over or being unable to function because they will no longer meet the quality requirements. How is this law enforceable without producing unintended effects in the world of small healthcare providers? The new law will lead to a redesign and professionalisation of the practice of complaint handling. I'm sure new protocols will be drawn up. There will also be indications of the behaviour and behaviour of healthcare providers. Is that trial being supervised? What role does the Health Inspectorate play in this? The practical consequences of the law, of course, directly affect quality and quality standards in health care. That is the purpose of this legislative proposal, because it places the complaint treatment within the framework of quality care. In this debate we would like to hear a statement from the Minister on the development of quality policy in healthcare in relation to the further development of complaint law and dispute resolution. How does she see this? Another issue that our group is still concerned with is the distinction between complaint and claim. The new law aims to deal with complaints at an early stage and, if possible, to find a satisfactory solution. If this is not done, there will be a course of action for the arbitration body, which will issue a binding opinion. Eventually, the corridor to the judge can be made. However, not all complaints have to end up in a claim and the complaint procedure should not judge, so is the idea. However, it is realistic to assume that not all people who complain always accept statements made by a complaint officer easily. The regulation now in place certainly paves the way for those who want to go to the highest authorities with their procedures. My group believes that this risk cannot be a reason to deny clients and patients the right to an independent procedure, but sees the reverse of this scheme. How does the Minister view this problem? We await the further exchange of views in this debate and would like to hear the Minister's answers to the questions we have asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u50	I see that Mr Bruijn wishes to place an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u51	I'll wait and see, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u52	I'm gonna go fill out that expectation. I actually have two questions for Mr Kuiper. He was just talking about the little care providers. According to Mr Kuiper, they might fall over, if I understood him correctly. The calculations show that the additional costs could be around €100 per provider. If that provider falls over if he gets €100 extra costs, he would have fallen over without this arrangement, I guess, so I don't share that concern. Moreover, there are many small suppliers who have been doing this for a long time, and none of them fall over. That's my first question. Then there is my second short question. You are concerned that this law opens the way to a procedure up to the highest organs, but that road is also open to the patient for a long time now. The patient can now also go to court, appeal and so on. Nothing's gonna change that. The intention of the law is to make this process unnecessary by better handling, more easily accessible, close to the patient himself, and even to treat the patient better so that he himself does not find it necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u53	The first question is about the collapse of small healthcare providers. Of course, that's not what I'm trying to do. What I see is that the risk with the small healthcare providers is potentially high. They don't have buffers, they're on their own. Then we're dealing with regulatory pressure. I agree with you that, according to the calculations we have seen, it must be possible to make a profit. There is also the threat of a claim, which can go up to €25,000. That is a very large amount for a small healthcare provider. I think it should be an incentive to deliver quality. This also applies to the small healthcare provider, who is, of course, more vulnerable in this dynamic than a large healthcare organisation. That's what I wanted to say. My main rule here is that the small healthcare provider, the soloist, must also deliver the quality we want to represent in this country. The form in which care is provided should not be a restriction on its quality. That is the first question. Then there is the second question. I agree with you that it must work in such a way that the complaint is captured close to the source, where something arises that people are dissatisfied about. I wouldn't want it to be juridified and people to move on to the highest authority. I expect this law to work in this way, but I have asked the Minister a question on this. You've got people going on after all. We don't live in a Utopia, where everything goes exactly as it can be in our performances at its most beautiful. It is realistic to think that there are people who continue to sue and who do want to judge. I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u54	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would also like to congratulate Mr Don. I know him as a man who goes for vulnerable people. I look forward to the further exchange of views in this debate and in the many debates that will follow. If you ask Dutch people what is most important for them in their lives, many people have good health at number one. Unfortunately, good health is not self-evident for everyone. When you are ill or you have a disability, you are glad that there are people who are committed to you, and fortunately, as far as I am concerned, more and more often with you, to make sure that you heal or if that is not able to lead the best life possible. People with disabilities or illness are often satisfied with the care provided. We are happy in the Netherlands with a good healthcare system, with many experts, involved professionals. I think we should not lose sight of this today. However, people may feel vulnerable and dependent if their body is not functioning optimally or if, for example, they are no longer able to take care of their disabled child or mother. If your main good, your health, is at stake, it is important that you can contact healthcare providers who inform you adequately and that you do not have to worry about the quality of the care provided. Moreover, there must be simple ways to enter into the conversation, if the care provided does not correspond to what you should have expected from it. When people are dissatisfied with the care provided, they are in almost all cases concerned with the adequacy of information provision, the extent to which they are involved in decision-making and/or the quality of medical content, and thus not only with medical content. The trust of patients and clients in the care provider increases when the healthcare provider himself engages in the conversation with the patient or the client when things run differently than expected. The Bill Quality, Complaints and Disputes Care is intended to strengthen the position of patients and clients in this bill, which uses the term "clients," although I also like the term "patients" to improve the provision of information on what is delivered and to reduce the threshold for talking to each other if care does not meet expectations. It has a long history, as has been mentioned several times. Already with the introduction of the new healthcare system, it was widely recognised that the position of clients should be strengthened vis-à-vis those of healthcare providers and health insurers. Mr Kuiper pointed out just now. The tricky thing is that opinions were divided and remain as to whether this can best be done through a separate legislative proposal to regulate the quality, complaints and disputes for all forms of care. Where matters are already well settled, the introduction of the law will only be codifying and of limited significance for daily practice, is the general impression. Clients' organisations advocate to introduce the integral law we are discussing today as soon as possible to finally strengthen the position of clients. On the other hand, representatives of different groups of healthcare providers look very differently at this. In particular, the sectors of healthcare providers warn about the further judicialisation of care and point to uncertainties in the process of handling complaints and disputes. In addition, they consider that a number of schemes lead to additional burdens and a sense of insecurity among aid workers. In the written and oral proceedings of the bill in the House of Representatives, and also in this Chamber, many of the points mentioned have been discussed in detail. We thank the government for the answers given. In the opinion of the PvdA Group, a number of points require clarification from the Minister in order to make a good assessment of the legislative proposal before us. For clients, it is important that they know who they can contact and what the distribution of roles is between all those involved. We have the following questions about this. The aim of the legislative proposal is to focus on the dialogue between caregiver and client in the case of questions and discontent with the care provided. In addition, the option of using a Disputes Committee is the one that remains if you do not get out in an interview, whether or not you are using a Complaints Officer. The PvdA Group welcomes this. On the basis of the government's explanation of questions on Article 21 (1) (c), it remains unclear to us whether the legislative proposal ensures this sufficiently. Does the Minister intend to propose that a client should only be able to refer to the Disputes Committee in all cases if he is dissatisfied with the handling of his complaint by the healthcare provider? If not, in what cases does the Minister consider direct access to the Disputes Committee to be relevant? How does the Minister intend to prevent the way to the Disputes Committee from being too easily followed? Our second point concerns the lack of clarity as to the position of the complaint officer. We assume that the complaint officer, as set out in Article 15, should put the client's interest first. However, the last note on the report states at the top of page 13 that the complaint officer also has the task of defending the interests of the healthcare provider. Is this answer true to what is envisaged in Article 15 of the bill? I would like to hear a clarification from the Minister on this point. Our third question concerns the division of roles to which a client should be justified when it comes to chain or network care. Questions have already been asked about this by a number of colleagues. This also concerns the scope of the law. With the transfer of important elements from the AWBZ to the Health Insurance Act, the Youth Act and the Social Support Act, people are increasingly receiving an integral package of care and support. This is often provided by people posted to a neighbourhood team by different organisations. Such a district team can consist of community care, welfare workers and people from youth care, psychiatry and disability care. It is often controlled by an official of the municipality. For the client, that's just one team. If we understand correctly, the activities financed by the Youth Act, the Social Support Act, the pgb care by non-BIG registered persons and the civil servant's actions from the example are not covered by the law. Did we get this right? And if so, who should the client be with if something goes wrong in the act of and the alignment between the aid workers in a district team? In addition, employees have to deal with both protocols and guidelines of their parent organisation as well as with a new set of rules and guidelines drawn up by the municipality. The question then is which frameworks for these caregivers are leading: those of their mother organisation, for example the psychiatry, and thus of this bill, or that of the municipality? Fortunately, in curative care too, there is increasingly an integrated approach to the problem of the patient. For example, medical specialists watch remotely in the doctor's office during the diagnostic phase. The bill provides for a healthcare provider to pass on a complaint that belongs to another person to the appropriate healthcare provider. How does the Minister view the division of roles when there is multidisciplinary treatment with multiple healthcare providers working together, as outlined above? In its replies to this point, the Minister refers to the KNMG's 2010 Hand-held distribution of responsibility in cooperation in healthcare. It only states that incidents and errors are made public to a client and that incidents are reported at a central point agreed within the grouping. How is the client prevented from coming to the shortest conclusion in a discussion between care providers or healthcare providers and no one can be contacted if the client is dissatisfied with the care provided or mistakes have been made? More fundamentally, the PvdA Group believes that legislation should take greater account of the fact that care is provided in chains and networks, with the possibility of varying hierarchical and functional guidance. Does the Minister share our view? And is the Minister prepared to have a study carried out, for example by the Health and Society Council, on the implications of the shift to network and chain care for the division of roles in health care and quality legislation? The second point we would like to raise here concerns the way in which incidents are reported. The PvdA Group is convinced that care can get better and better if caregivers can learn from their mistakes and near-mistakes. This only works if there are as few thresholds as possible for employees to report and discuss incidents. In Article 9, sixth paragraph, the Minister leaves open the possibility of requesting information from the secure reporting system in criminal matters if the information cannot be obtained otherwise. How does the Minister look at the fears of aid workers that this will raise the threshold for reporting incidents, and what opportunities does she see to remove this fear? Within the current complaint schemes, all costs are borne by the healthcare providers and no own contributions to the complainants are raised. The PvdA Group thinks this is a good thing, because it prevents you from deciding whether to file a complaint. In order to prevent the progress towards the Disputes Commission from being too low-threshold, it is proposed to allow people to pay €50 in advance. They will only get this back if they are right. What is the level of this amount based on? How can we prevent people on a small stock exchange from being prevented from entering the Disputes Committee because of the costs they have to incur? The sectors of healthcare providers prefer to strengthen the position of the client by adapting existing legislation over the current legislative proposal. They point to elements in the law that increase the administrative burden in the care, for example through the register of caregivers, the obligation to change new employees and the obligation to conclude written agreements with each employee. How does the Minister view these concerns from healthcare providers? Are there any possibilities, for example, to address these concerns by adapting the implementing act? Another point that needs attention is the chance that the bill will introduce a claim culture in Dutch healthcare. This could be done in particular by the fact that the Disputes Commission deals with both the substantive complaint handling and the award of compensation. In addition, the maximum amount of damage is increased to €25,000. The healthcare providers in both the first and second lines fear that the law will result in further legalisation of care and that the number of claims will increase substantially. On the other hand, the idea of joint client, patient and consumer organisations, for example, and the Stichting Working Group on Medical Missers, is that the law can prevent the legalisation of care. Among other things, they base themselves on Professor Smeehuijzen's report on the care and settlement of damages in the event of unintended consequences of medical misses. Several suggestions have been made in recent times to reduce the risk of a claim culture. In particular, it is a question of not increasing the maximum amount to be reimbursed, which remains, for example, at €10,000 and decoupling the substantive and financial assessment of the case. How does the Minister view these proposals? Whatever option is chosen, in practice it will only show what the actual claim behavior will be and whether this is a good or bad thing. In doing so, the PvdA Group considers it important to keep a finger on the wrist. Is the Minister prepared to monitor the development of the number of claims annually, to inform us about them and, if necessary, to take additional measures in the event of defensive medicine, together with an increase in complaints and legal proceedings? The legislative proposal quality, complaints and disputes care aims to strengthen the position of the clients in care and to optimise the quality and information about the care provided. This law will be of particular value if it is absolutely clear to the clients what they can expect from the healthcare provider and easy handling of complaints and disputes is possible. We look forward to the Minister's response to our questions with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u55	In the middle of her text, Mrs Nooren made a very interesting proposal, namely that the Health and Health Council or another body should carry out an investigation into chain management and functional management. The idea is that doctors and others in care often work in conjunction with each other. So Mrs Nooren wants something examined, but what she said about it was very fast. She asked the minister what he would think of that and if she would, but why is she asking this? What's behind this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u56	If a client complains or is dissatisfied with care, there is nothing worse than that the complaint is submitted to one provider but it says: I did not; that part of the action belongs to another. The complaint would then be unfounded or not dealt with because the legal relationship between the parties concerned is unclear. For example, the Wmo is even worse. The legislative proposal we are debating does not exclude the official's actions, but the actions of those in the care of the disabled and the elderly are part of it. My question to the Minister is what is the relationship between hierarchical and substantive responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u57	So Mrs Nooren does not want providers of care to hide behind another person's back when a complaint comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u58	Exactly, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u59	But how does she assess that herself? Is this often the reason why complaints are dismissed as unfounded? What actual finding of hers is behind this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u60	The complicated thing is that this is a new situation, especially since the introduction of the Wmo. Take the district teams: they don't have a legal construct yet. If they had that, we could focus on that, but there isn't. I think the odds of what I said has increased over the past six months. Now the law states: the provider refers to the following provider. I think that the Minister should give a ruling on who is the first to be appointed to assume full responsibility for the complaint.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u61	Mrs Nooren is now giving an example from the Wmo, but this is not about the Wmo. Does this happen, for example, at hospitals? 'Cause that's where you usually have to deal with an individual handler, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u62	You're dealing with an individual handler, but it's increasingly happening that during the diagnostic phase a medical specialist calls and watches. What if you're not happy about that? Do you have to go to both, so to the general practitioner who flies the final judgment and to the medical specialist who, for example, assessed the X-ray? Because then the client has to go from the locker to the wall. Or do we say in this kind of situation that the ultimate controller is fully responsible, although the BIG responsibility is partly with another provider? Because there's nothing worse for clients than not knowing who to contact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u63	Mrs Nooren talks about networking and how to handle complaints and quality within them. A simple solution is to apply the Wkkgz over the entire bandwidth, because then you don't have to make any exceptions. Of course, this is not only a matter of network care. It also takes place in institutions that provide care under the Health Insurance Act, as well as under the Long-Term Care Act, as well as at local level. I think you're gonna need an answer. If you want to settle quality and complaints properly within those institutions, you have to lay down a law about it. Is that what Mrs. Nooren is saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u64	My plea is that it would be easier for clients if the Wkkgz was widely applicable. The question is whether the Minister also sees the problem. Or does she think there should be different regimes next to each other? In that case, I am very curious about the argument. Or does she think that this law should become a framework law over everything that is called care? The answer on youth care is already considering whether this should apply. I am therefore very interested to hear the Minister's answer on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u65	Then we have the same mindset. I'm also anxiously waiting for the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u66	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to congratulate Mr Don from this place on his maiden speech and on his maiden interruption. After all the cuts in defense, the Salvation Army is about the last army still functioning in our country. I believe that this alone is why we should be sparing on the Salvation Army. The SGP appreciates the intentions of this bill. I would like to use this debate to ask some questions on issues that I do not think have been exhaustively raised in the House of Representatives and to ask some questions that arise as a result of amendments that have been adopted. The SGP considers it important that caregivers whose operation has been seriously deficient in the past should not be able to work with another institution without the relevant institution being aware of it and possibly taking measures. Although the Minister expects much of the obligation to change, the SGP is less confident that all dysfunctional care providers, for example, come into the picture by checking references. The request for the statement of conduct also provides only partial certainty. After all, these are only criminally prosecuted employees, not employees who are professionally incompetent. I therefore ask the Minister to work on a more coherent system that healthcare providers can count on. I believe that Mr Van der Staaij's amendment to item No. 58 enabling dysfunctional care providers to be tracked through the IGZ, more opportunities for this than the minister is currently using. Is the Minister prepared to develop a digital register accessible to healthcare providers in order to enable redundant workers to rehabilitate themselves? The message from the AMvB concept, which the Minister intends to give to potential employers, does not seem to be sufficiently useful at the moment. Is the Minister prepared to arrange for the IGZ to report immediately whether someone has been dismissed for dysfunction, what are the findings of the IGZ regarding the healthcare provider concerned, and what measures does the IGZ consider necessary to prevent the recurrence of dysfunction? Then I'll come to the conspiracy. At the moment the applicant's consent is still required to obtain references. Will that change now that it is legally required to consult previous employers? Is that an assumption? With the new reporting obligation after dismissal for serious dysfunction, the IGZ has a new tool in its hands to remove incompetent employees from care. However, I do not think that IGZ has any legal authority to monitor these care providers after the investigation. Is this assumption true? And if so, is it desirable to still regulate this power? Thus the obligation to report remains not just a paper tiger, but becomes a lion with teeth. The SGP welcomes the fact that the mandatory statement of behaviour has been replaced by a more tailor-made scheme for all healthcare workers. I would like to hear a substantive argument in the Minister's choice to make it compulsory now for healthcare professionals who work in an institution where elderly people, people with disabilities or people with mental illness live. I find the observation I read in the reply that this choice is between the wishes of interbranch organisations and those of client organisations rather lean. In reply to this question, can the Minister comment on the consideration of costs and benefits requested by the House of Representatives? Can the Minister indicate how many staff are present in the judicial documentation consulted in the investigation for the purpose of issuing a vog? Only when this is known can a balanced balance of interests be made between costs and benefits. The SGP is not entirely satisfied that the internal reporting of incidents will be 100% safe. I ask the Minister how she prevents caregivers from reporting incidents because the Public Prosecutor may be using information from incident registration in the detection of criminal offences only in special circumstances. Would it not be wiser to delete this power from the prosecution, because information on serious crimes must always be available in other ways? I note that the current reporting obligation for cross-border sexual behaviour involving physical, mental or relational dominance in relation to the undesirable sexual aspect includes more than the newly proposed reporting obligation for violence in the care relationship. Does the Minister recognise that sexual transversal conduct is a broader concept than committing one of the sexual crimes in the Code of Criminal Law? These are, for example, sexually-tuned comments made by aid workers. I assume it is not the Minister's intention to restrict the reporting obligation. Is that so? And does she want to fix it if necessary? I come to the part of the law that deals with complaints and disputes. The SGP supports the idea of initially having complaints and disputes resolved as far as possible between the healthcare provider and the patient. The new, intermediate role of the compulsory complaint officer can work well in this respect. I would ask the Minister to explain why she is not afraid that this bill will lead to a mix of complaints and claims with the Disputes Committee. Why wasn't it chosen to have complaints and claims dealt with on a temporary basis? Can the Minister comment on the fears of doctors that medical action will be too determined by the fear of a possible claim, leading to defensive action? The bill also introduces a new phenomenon, namely the collective action that can be introduced in a dispute settlement committee. Would it not be reasonable to continue to follow the provision of the WFD, in which the interest group should first try to reach agreement with the defendant? That is stated in Article 305a (2). This is more in line with the two-stage rocket, which is also chosen for individual complaints. I come to the end of my speech. After the amendment of Article 13 on the free choice of doctors in this Chamber was stranded, the Minister indicated in the Quality letter that she would make further demands on the quality of mental health care. In doing so, it wishes to use the powers conferred on it by Article 5 (2) of the Wkkgz. Is it possible for the First Chamber to get an insight into the concept for the General Measure of Management before the votes, so that we can involve them in our final judgment on this law? Since it is the intention to let that AMvB enter into force as early as 1 January 2016, it seems to me that there should already be a matured piece. I will close, but not after wishing Mrs Bredenoord a great deal of success in her maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u67	I give the floor to Mrs Bredenoord. I'll ring the bell first so everyone knows there's a maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u68	Mr. Chairman. It is an honor to have my maiden speech in this Chamber today on such an essential subject as quality, complaints and disputes in healthcare. I also say immediately: I am also struggling with this law. On the one hand, guaranteeing a high quality in our care and providing an accessible, well-established complaint and medical claim regime is an important part of the patient's position and legal status. It also affects my field of expertise, medical ethics. The emergence of modern medical ethics is closely linked to the horrors of the Second World War and to social and technological changes from the 1960s onwards. Patients' rights, autonomy and the right to self-determination became key pillars in our health care. Legislation in support of these patients' rights may promote equality between the aid provider and the patient. On the other hand, however, my group has serious concerns as to whether the proposed regulation will actually strengthen the patient's position and whether it will not also have undesirable effects. I'll start with the part of the bill that deals with quality. My group supports the measures proposed for monitoring and improving the quality of care. The legal anchoring of an obligation for the healthcare provider to systematically collect and record data on the quality of care fits within what is called the "learning health care system" by the US Institute of Medicine. This is a healthcare system that integrates patient care with medical scientific research so that all interventions offered can be constantly studied and improved. Learning as an important moral pillar. Recent scandals about, for example, the PIP breast implants and the Metal-on-Metal haemplants show the importance of systematic registration, so that it is always possible to find out which patient has received any intervention, which implant or which tool and also to check the long-term effects. As far as quality is concerned, my group still has a number of questions. The Wkkgz introduces the so-called "wisher' obligation: the healthcare provider must ensure that the way in which the healthcare provider has operated in the past does not prevent the health care provider from being hired. The obligation is not filled in further, but during the plenary session in the Lower House the Minister indicated that it is the intention of a healthcare provider to obtain information about his functioning from the employer of an applicant. How far does the healthcare provider have to go to check on someone's background? The aim of the conciliation procedure is good, namely to prevent a person who is not working properly from getting back to work elsewhere. Every now and then, unfortunately, we read the examples in the newspaper when things really go badly wrong. But in Article 11, paragraph 1, a notification obligation is also introduced for the dismissal of healthcare providers: the healthcare provider who fires a healthcare provider for dysfunction must report this to the Health Care Inspectorate (IGZ). In principle, my group supports such a reporting obligation, but as it stands today, it raises questions for my group. How do they relate to each other? Doesn't the obligation to notify render the obligation to make a statement unnecessary? If the IGZ hasn't completed the investigation following a report of dysfunction, can the laid-off health care provider work somewhere in the meantime or will someone stay at home during the investigation? We also have questions about the scope of the reporting obligation. In the first letter of amendment, the reporting obligation for cross-border sexual behaviour has been replaced by the reporting obligation for violence in the care relationship. Why isn't sexual behavior also explicitly mentioned across borders? The Wkkgz requires the healthcare provider to conclude a written agreement with healthcare providers, which ensures that they are guided in their work by the legal obligations incumbent on the healthcare provider and by the rules laid down by the healthcare provider regarding the provision of care. This agreement must be concluded with caregivers unless there is a private or public service obligation. In practice, these will be temporary workers andzzp'ers, for example. How does the Minister see this in practice? Especially for temporary agency workers working in changing institutions on a daily basis, this can create additional bureaucracy. Every minute of unnecessary bureaucracy goes at the expense of hands on the bed. Is the collective agreement for temporary workers not enough here? It stipulates that the temporary agency worker carries out his or her duties under the direction and supervision of the principal. I come now to the part of the law which proposes a new regime for dealing with complaints and disputes in healthcare. A well-running, low-threshold scheme for complaints and medical claims is an important part of the patient's legal position. The Wkkgz requires the healthcare provider, in accordance with a representative organisation of clients, to draw up a written complaint scheme. In doing so, the law obliges healthcare providers to have a complaint officer, which my group welcomes. After all, in practice complaints officers have proven their usefulness and function as a low-threshold complaint handling. In addition, the law obliges healthcare providers to join an external, by establishing representative organisations of clients and healthcare providers and by recognising the Minister's Disputes Committee. One of the NIVEL reports on complaints schemes says very nicely: "A complaint is a relationship signal." A complaint starts with a patient who, for example, has been wronged or who has experienced a complication, who has been injured, or who feels unsightly or unseen. It will only become a formal complaint if the feeling of displeasure is formalized and entered into a procedure. Several studies show that patients need a low-threshold and informal form of complaint handling, close to where the complaint arose. Of course, it is precisely in the care that it is preferable to be able to deal with complaints informally, with the proverbial "good conversation" between the aid worker and the patient, possibly through mediation. Of course, there must be a clear, accessible, formal route, but I do not see any proposals in this legislative proposal to improve this informal complaint resolution before there is actually a formal complaint. Does the Minister intend to invest in the informal route at the front in order to prevent any expression of displeasure from becoming a complaint at all? As a result, I miss attention to how we can help the aid workers to deal better with a complaint or claim. The aid worker is sometimes called the "second victim." Of course, he or she is afraid that something has gone wrong, or of certain emotions or dissatisfaction with the patient and may therefore also be less professional to the patient. How does the Minister intend to invest in the care of aid workers? I am thinking, for example, of further strengthening professional skills and attitudes to deal with this properly and improving the informal path at the front. The D66 Group considers it most important that the formal route is preceded by an adequate informal route. If it is not possible to come out together, there must of course be a proper complaint procedure. Currently, several healthcare providers have internal complaint committees. For example, the general practitioners are members of regional complaint committees. Are these complaints committees working satisfactorily? I think the answer is yes and no. Yes, because in procedural terms the complaints committees seem to function well. No, because evaluations of the complaints committees indicate that many patients who have lodged a complaint are not satisfied with the outcome of the complaint. Much has been invested in complaint committees in recent years, but more recent evaluations also show that there is still much room for improvement. The law does not abolish the complaints committees, but in practice this proposal could mean the end of the committees, including the committees that are now running reasonably well. This has to do, among other things, with compulsory membership of a Disputes Commission. Indeed, if institutions would choose to maintain their complaints committee, they would incur double costs for a complaint officer, a complaint committee and compulsory membership of the Disputes Committee. Especially for small-scale healthcare providers, this may mean that they may have to abolish reasonably ongoing complaints committees. Does the Minister share this concern and is it prepared to meet small-scale healthcare providers? The proposed six-week period may also be negative. If a complaint comes in, it should be investigated. There must be hearing and hearing again, but perhaps they want to meet again as a committee. In practice, it is not unusual for a complaint committee to need a little longer to arrive at a careful judgment. Does the Minister share our view that the six-week deadline is tight? Why did the Minister choose not to align with the three-month deadline, as used by the Code of Conduct on Open Medical Incidents, the GOMA Code? Since 2010, all parties have been in the process of adapting their practices to the GOMA Code. Does the Minister consider that the current form of the bill will in practice mean that the complaints committees will be abolished or replaced? How does this relate to the intention to achieve "an effective and easily accessible reception and handling of complaints"? What does this mean for the quality aspect of complaint law? A critical point in the legislative proposal is the lack of distinction between complaints and claims. Of course, a patient may want to file both a complaint and a claim through, for example, inadequate handling of a complication or a medical error, but in general, a complaint is quite different from a medical claim. This requires a different approach and resolution. Patients who lodge a complaint are not so much looking for financial compensation but for recognition of their objections and preventing the same from happening to another patient. This allows the right to complain to be seen as an important quality tool. One of our major concerns, and with me from healthcare providers and health attorneys, is that a complaint will be made more quickly into a claim in the future. For example, the proposed scheme requires the healthcare provider to provide a written response within six weeks, stating the reasons for the outcome of the examination of the complaint, the decisions taken by the healthcare provider on and following the complaint and the period within which measures decided upon will be implemented. Firstly, this may mean that if the informal complaint handling by the complaint officer does not lead to sufficient results, the healthcare provider must handle the complaint itself. Especially in the case of solo-working healthcare providers, this may be the case. That is, of course, literally as close to the start of the complaint as possible, but you cannot call that independent advice. How does the Minister see this? Secondly, if the patient is subsequently unable to agree with the judgement of the healthcare provider, he or she may bring his or her complaint to the Disputes Committee. With the complaint, the patient can also immediately file a financial claim. Maybe that wasn't what the patient was after at all. After all, we know that patients' motives for lodging complaints are not about financial gain, but about redress and preventing the same from happening to others. But if that's what the committee is about, why not just see if there are any financial implications, just because it can? Nothing human is weird. My group recognises that the possibilities for patients to get a claim assessed or recognised are far from optimal. We are not in advance dismissive of a more accessible route than is currently the case, for example through a dispute settlement body. But because the dispute committees can settle both complaints and claims, we are concerned about unintended negative effects, such as an increase in legalisation in care and the emergence of a claim culture. Does the Minister share the concern about the increase in a claim culture? Another unintentional negative effect could be an increase in defensive medical action. Defensive medical behaviour does not improve the quality and affordability of care and does not improve the patient's position. Experience has shown that a reluctant or defensive attitude of doctors to complaints leads to escalation and formalisation. Defensive medical action, also leads to overdiagnosis of an additional CT, an additional blood test....................................................................................................................................................... Does the Minister recognise that complaints and claims have a different purpose and that it is, at least, illogical and perhaps also undesirable that they should be combined? Can the Minister take away our concern about the emergence of a claim culture and an increase in defensive medical action? The bill could also have been designed in such a way that complaints and claims remain two separate paths. For complaints, the patient can then contact the complaint officer, so that the current complaints committees can also be retained for the handling of complaints. The dispute committees then focus exclusively on medical claims. Why didn't the Minister choose this variant? After all, partly because of what we know about patients' wishes and needs, there is no reason to believe that a remote external dispute committee from the healthcare provider is more attractive to the patient than the current close complaints committee. Our group also has some questions about how the functioning of the Disputes Committee relates to Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. It provides that when establishing civil rights and obligations, the judgment authority must be independent and impartial and should be established by law. The Disputes Committee, as proposed in the Wkkgz, is set up by representative organisations of clients and healthcare providers and recognised by the Minister. Does the Minister believe that the definition of 'independent and impartial' will be maintained in Strasbourg when it comes to scrutiny? Article 6 of the ECHR also requires that the handling of a case and the judgment be public. The bill merely requires that the ruling be public, while the complainant remains anonymous. Also other requirements in Article 6, such as hearing and hearing, adequate justification and access to procedural documents, are not reflected in the legislative proposal. Can the Minister clarify the compatibility of this bill with Article 6 of the ECHR? Next, a comment on the form and composition of the dispute committees. The success of the Disputes Committees will be determined by the expertise and accessibility of the committees and by the speed and diligence with which they will carry out their work. The bill stipulates that the Disputes Commission shall carry out its work on the basis of a written settlement and that it shall have the power to issue a binding ruling and to award a fee of up to €25,000. Can the Minister explain what is to be contained in that written arrangement? Is there an oral procedure or is there a written procedure? Are there going to be regional sessions, or only national sessions? Such factors naturally make up for the alleged accessibility and low-threshold of the settlement of disputes. In short, what is the procedure? Actually, we don't have a visual on that process right now. Does the Minister expect patients who submit a dispute to the Disputes Committee to need legal support in this regard? If so, will the costs incurred by the patient for, for example, legal support be reimbursed and, if so, by whom? I'll come to a conclusion. My group supports the principle of this law. How can you be against ensuring high quality, constantly improving care and strengthening the patient's position? However, my group wonders whether the proposed regulation will actually strengthen the patient's position, whether there will be sufficient investment in the informal path at the front, whether there will be undesirable effects and whether the burden on healthcare providers is proportionate in all cases. The members of my group look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u69	Mrs. Bredenoord, you're gonna stand still for a while. Congratulations on your maiden speech. May I also briefly comment on your social background? The First Chamber has a reputation in the inn of scientists. This fits in with the contemplative and substantive nature of this house. Fortunately, these scientists are rarely study chamber scholars, but usually people with a broad social perspective and a practical impact. You can be rightly placed in this tradition. You may be a scientist, but your interest extends to many areas of society, given your resume. You have been politically active for almost 15 years, but this is your first stage as a representative of the people. You studied theology from 1997 to 2003 at Leiden University and at the same university of political science from 2002 to 2007. From 2003 to 2005 you worked as a lecturer in medical ethics at the Leiden University Medical Center and from 2005 to 2009 as a researcher at the Faculty of Health, Medicine and Life Sciences at Maastricht University. From 2008 you are a university lecturer/chief teacher (bio)medical ethics at the University Medical Center Utrecht. In 2010 you obtained your PhD in medical ethics at Maastricht University on the dissertation: "Ethics at the interface of reproductive medicine and genetic technology: the case of mitochondrial disorders." The latter are, as I understand it, metabolic disorders that inherit along the female line. As a scientist, you address ethical questions about new, often controversial biomedical technologies, such as stem cell research and genetics. In addition to your work at the university, you are active in many gremia in that field. From 2011 to 2013 you were a member of the Young Health Council and you are currently a member of the Young Academy of the Academy. According to your own website, your interest in social and political issues arose in your teenage age, at home at the kitchen table, with regular discussions about the Purple Cabinet, which also addressed many ethical issues. From that time, your admiration for your party member and then Minister of VWS, Els Borst, who was particularly involved in medical-ethical policy issues. On your site, you indicate that science and technology are increasingly intertwined with politics, ethics and society and that this also requires people who feel at home in different areas of decision-making. This extensive scientific palette of activities has not prevented you from political activities. Since your studies, D66 has been a common thread in your life. You were already intern at the D66 Science Bureau and in 2002 and 2003 you were a group assistant of D66 in the city council of Leiden. Afterwards, you were a member of the D66 Programme Committee for the 2010 Dutch Parliament Election. You became chairman of the Utrecht branch of your party in 2011 and in spite of your youthful age it is really an old lady who speaks now! From 2013 you will be a member of the National Talent Commission D66. The media also noticed that a number of young, promising female senators have taken their seats in the new First Chamber. A large national newspaper, de Volkskrant, already paid attention to this in March of this year, even before the state elections and the First Chamber election. We saw interviews with you and Mirjam Bikker, now fellow senator. Christine Teunissen, now also a member of this house, was also featured in the media with interviews. Els Borst's message, "Policy is too important to leave to men alone," seems to have arrived. I wish you every success in your further contribution to the work of the Chamber. I'm suspending the sitting to give my fellow Members the opportunity to congratulate you on your maiden speech. I'll be the first to do that myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u70	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating colleagues Don and Bredenoord on their maiden speech. Their expert and involved input promises a lot and it is good to have a theologian with them. The legislative proposal we are debating today has not only a long, but above all a confusing history. It had a lot of ground to put forward a clear and compact bill here. The original proposal from 2010 had to be redesigned and finally it was discussed in this Chamber on 9 July 2013. It was not very fast there either, because both the Chamber and the government repeatedly needed more time to ask questions or to answer them. This delay means, among other things, that the law refers repeatedly to, for example, the AWBZ, which has long been replaced by the Wmo. I have searched and browsed for a while, but I could not find anywhere to say that the Wkkgz bill is still being amended on this point. I assume, however, that the Minister has taken good care of this. Such a detail: Article 3 refers to Article 1 (1) (f). I could not find that part in Article 1. Back to the core. My group has no objections in principle to the legislative proposal. We share the intention to regulate the quality of care in a broad and unambiguous way and to make it mandatory for a low-threshold scheme in case complaints and disputes arise. However, after examining the whole dossier, a number of questions remain, however much we also thank the Minister for answering all the questions that were already there. Our first question concerns the scope of the law. The concept of "other care" should be defined as "actions in the field of individual healthcare as referred to in Article 1 of the Act on the professions of individual healthcare, other than AWBZ care or Zvw care, and actions for a purpose other than promoting or monitoring the health of the client." The latter now means, in addition to medical operations under the BIG Act, "all other operations including examination and the provision of advice directly related to a person and aimed at promoting or monitoring his or her health'. The last part of that phrase expires for the definition of the Wkkgz, so "other care' now means: "all other operations include examination and giving advice directly related to a person'. If we have understood correctly, the scope has become very broad, much wider than the often used example of cosmetic care, which we do feel is being brought under the scope of the law. In theory, it can be said that a notary who draws up a will is covered by this law because he provides care that directly relates to a person for a purpose other than monitoring or promoting health. Now everyone understands that this is not the intention, but what about the providers of slimming courses, who sometimes give personalised advice? Or the personal fitness trainer? In another area: what about the minister, the humanist counselor or the spiritual caretaker? Are they also covered by the law and should they have a dispute settlement? Have they suddenly become an alternative healthcare provider? In other words, and that is, of course, the fundamental point, it seems clear what we mean, but by giving other purposes a place in addition to promoting or monitoring health, the term "other care" is in fact no longer defined. Can the Minister explain where the definition of care is legally established? The second question concerns the intention of low-threshold and the risk of legalisation. I agree with what colleagues have said about this. Many questions have been asked about this and the government seems tireless in answering that it is precisely a cultural change, where complaints are discussed in a proper discussion or possibly in a dispute committee, so that it does not have to take any further legal action or financial claims. On the other hand, it has been repeatedly proposed to prevent the mixing of complaints and claims and not to deposit them with the same body, but the government really believes that it will not go that way. We do now share that view, but we also see a pattern that occurs on many more legislative proposals, namely that the reactions of all those concerned to a new legal situation are not being denied, and that is precisely why the original objective of the law is not being achieved. Policy makers sometimes have a rather schematic view of reality. Otherwise, you can't make a policy. They see a problem that has to be solved. They're coming up with a measure. And that measure would work if everyone responded to it as intended. But that's not gonna happen, of course. All those involved, understandably, are going to see how they can best serve their own goals in this new situation. They adapt their behavior to that. As a result, the measure is usually less effective than intended and sometimes has an opposite effect. In retrospect, we are talking about perverse incentives, but in my group's view it is more a form of corporate blindness, which does not take into account the thinking and calculating capacity of people. Quite specifically: if there are more possibilities to file a financial claim if I have a complaint, I will seriously ask myself whether it is not wise to file that claim. I agree with Mr Bredenoord. And if that claim goes up to a higher amount, sooner or later I'll run into legal advisers who advise to go that way also Marche. Then it is very nice that in 2015 there was a minister who said that this was not the intention, but that minister was then seen in retrospect, in the words of our Queen a little stupid. For the sake of clarity, we have no objection to people being able to file a claim if they have suffered damage as a result of behaviour by a healthcare provider. And we suspect with the Minister that correct and personal handling of complaints does not lead to a culture of claims. But we do not want to be naive and we would like to hear from the Minister more than a spelling formula that it will not be such a rush. What concrete measures are in the system that actively counteract the judicialisation and economicisation of complaints? The third question concerns the relationship between the complaint procedure and the Secure Incidents Report. The questions that have been asked suggest that this is a square circle. On the one hand, it is essential for quality assurance that caregivers report incidents. They can do that if it does not immediately have repercussions for their functioning. Therefore, there are all kinds of protective measures, including Article 9 (6) which states that data in the register may not be used as evidence in legal proceedings. But the second sentence of that article immediately undermines this by stating that they may be used as criminal evidence if they cannot reasonably be obtained in any other way. This makes reporting incidents again a potentially risky matter for the reporter. How problematic that square circle is is is shown in the response pleading the comparison with the Aviation Act regarding the use of the reporting data as evidence in a criminal case against the reporter. The government then comes up with an inimitable argument: "Because the Air Transport Act imposes the reporting obligation on natural or legal persons, the numerical principle applies here, which means that the reporting information can only be used as guidance information in criminal proceedings." Now it comes: "The Wkkgz imposes an obligation on the healthcare provider to have a VIM if this is necessary for the quality of care. The information contained in the VIM can therefore be used as evidence against a reporter, since the obligation is not addressed to individual caregivers and therefore the numerical principle does not apply." Does this mean, I ask the Minister, that the health care institution should keep a register, but that the individual care provider within that institution is not obliged to report an incident if that poses a risk of persecution for him or her? And if so, doesn't the VIM lose its value immediately? Moreover, this raises the question of how a soloist-working healthcare provider works. Does the Minister agree with my group that it should record incidents as a healthcare provider while at the same time being an individual health care provider, so that the nemo tenetur principle does apply? The response continues with an incantation text: "The government believes that this is not a reason for precautionary workers not to use the VIM in self-protection. The D.A. is only seeking information from the VIM in very exceptional situations, and only if there is a suspicion of a serious criminal offence." This does not seem to be a very harsh legal wording and makes these provisions rather toothless: the chance is negligible that an individual healthcare professional will report a serious criminal offence and that the evidence can only be derived from the register. Please explain to the Minister why she thinks this works and more specifically under what conditions the Public Prosecutor's Office may request information. I think the improvement in quality care and the strengthening of the position of care recipients is a more beautiful word than clients or patients. But the present bill raises questions even after this long and messy history. The answer to this will be a factor in our assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u71	Mr. Chairman. I too congratulate Mr Don and Mrs Bredenoord on their maiden speech. This bill speaks a little bit of economical about good care and proposes a definition. These are, of course, basic requirements. As far as PVV is concerned, the bar should be set higher than the base. Excellent care; that should always be the goal for our patients. Nevertheless, with this law we can take a step in that direction. The fact that this bill has been dealt with over the summer recess does not mean that the introduction of this legislation is not urgent. On the contrary. It is high time to provide patients with more certainty and clarity in complaints and medical errors. The aims of this law must be firmly anchored. In the further reply of 27 March 2015, the Minister lists for which this law is important: de-escalation and de-juridisation of clients' complaints; tackling excesses in the cosmetic sector; preventing as much as possible healthcare providers who have been made redundant due to serious dysfunctions from just getting back to work elsewhere; strengthening the quality requirements necessary to prevent and address quality poor or ineffective care; the position ofzzp'ers in healthcare. In recent years, there have been enough examples, often poignant examples, of how things can go wrong, how patients are unnecessarily in trouble after medical errors or complaints that have been resolved satisfactorily. It is also important for healthcare providers to clarify, so that they can discuss an adequate solution or move towards a financial compensation in a clear path in an open position towards clients at a low threshold. The complicated and costly step towards civil justice is therefore no longer necessary with this proposal. The PVV can also certainly endorse the principles of this legislative proposal. In the written examination of this proposal in this Chamber, our group asked the Minister about the state of play of the amendments to the Medical Treatment Agreement Act (WGBO) as regards the right of access to, or copy of, the medical file for survivors. The Minister then indicated that the government intends to adapt the WGBO on a number of points and that the bill for this purpose will be presented to the Lower House in the second half of 2015. We are now in the second half of this year and my question to the Minister is therefore what is the current state of affairs. I'd like a reaction to that. I would also like to address some of the points of feasibility of the Wkkgz today. The legislative proposal did not consider the possibility of restricting the abuse of the right to complain. There may be situations where frequent unfounded or disproportionate complaints are made against healthcare professionals. As a result, caregivers may have to be heard and accounted for at any time, possibly unnecessary, and this may hinder them in their care activities. Eventually, this will not help patients either. What possibilities does the Minister see for dealing adequately with this in the implementation of this law? I'd like a response from the Minister. Article 5 of the legislative proposal refers to the quality level of care. In the 2013 explanatory memorandum, the Minister states that this legislative proposal assumes that "there is sufficient clarity and consensus in the field on how work should be organised broadly within the different healthcare sectors and on what commitment of people and resources is needed to provide good care." This statement raises the question of whether the current cuts in the healthcare sector still provide sufficient clarity and consensus on the use of people and resources to provide good care. After all, have these people and resources not been cut off by now? I'd like a response from the Minister. Then I come to the question of Article 6 (a) of the bill. This article provides that the healthcare provider must ensure that "spiritual care is available that is as consistent as possible with the client's religion or beliefs." This provision raises the question of how to deal with "as much as possible" in practice. Can a patient, for example, require a healthcare provider to have a strict salafistic imam available? Should a healthcare provider be expected to cooperate in this? Can the Minister clarify that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u72	Mr Van Hattem should not blame me if he asks a question that is so in my own field, I respond to it. The focus he puts on this question, I find a little uncomfortable. Of course, people have the right to spiritual care that fits in as much as possible. That's just what the current quality law says. It's all neatly arranged. The institutions can offer it themselves et cetera. I therefore object to the specification given by Mr Van Hattem, which puts the whole field in a negative light. This is absolutely unnecessary in order to be able to put a fundamental question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u73	That is your point, but if such requirements are prevented, it is only a question of whether that cannot be the basis for this procedure to file a complaint and to initiate a complaint procedure. In that sense, therefore, I think my question is very important. Mr. Chairman. Article 6 (b) also raises questions. Can the provision that the healthcare provider ensures that "research is carried out into the lifestyle of the clients concerned' also mean that research should be carried out into Islamic lifestyles, such as separate rooms for men and women or the provision of halal meals? Can the Minister indicate whether Islamising our care institutions can be excluded from this provision? I'd like a response. Article 8 of the bill refers to a code of conduct for domestic violence and child abuse. In the explanatory note, it was noted that the Minister intends to use an AMvB...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u74	Mr Van Hattem, you are talking about the Islamization of care. As you just heard, I work at the Salvation Army. That's where I get my foundation, from the Christian faith as a pastor. Isn't it just that you're trying to take into account the wishes of the clients you have? Islamic care, well... There are also all kinds of people of all kinds of cultures working in care. I think it's... well, you know my feelings about this. We have crossed swords on this subject before. As far as I'm concerned, you can just say that clients have wishes that you want to pay due attention to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u75	Sure. Clients have wishes, but not every wish needs to be met. There are also limits to what is normal and feasible in this society. Our core values are at the forefront of this. We in the Netherlands are not waiting for separate rooms for men and women based on Sharia ideas, we should never want to participate in that. As far as I am concerned, that is a clear limit that we must be able to draw on such living wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u76	Where does this need come from to deny large groups of Dutch people with in themselves harmless desires the right to shape their lives according to those wishes when they are in a care situation? What is the final undemocratic approach to throw away a large group of Dutch people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u77	Well, I have not heard a clear question, but rather a view from Mr Ganzevoort. No groups are being thrown away, but we are simply drawing a clear line. If there are separate rooms for men and women with separate entrances, you can't think of it as crazy as to whether Islam is inventing something that is completely idiotic in this context......................................................................................................................................................................................... That's a clear line. My question to the Minister is simply where that limit is drawn. That has nothing to do with putting it away; it's just standing up for our own values. Good. I'm going back to my point. I was talking about Article 8. The explanatory note states that the Minister intends to pay specific attention in an AMvB to particular forms of violence, such as female genital mutilation and honor-related violence. It states that cultural aspects play a major role. It is striking that the word "islam" does not fall once, while it is clearly a problem of Islamic culture. What is worrying is the premise that a "direct approach" is not desirable. I quote: 'In the first place, more indirect and mediation-oriented interventions are needed'. Women mutilation and honor vengeance come from Islam. How naive and absurd is it to think that mediation can change that? Those responsible for this barbarity must be dealt with instantly and the victims must be adequately protected. Can the Minister indicate how she intends to deal with this in the AmvB? I'd like a response. I'm going back to Article 7, which lays down rules for monitoring the quality of care. From a patient's point of view, this is in principle a good starting point, but it should not be counterproductive in its implementation. Paragraph 2 of this Article provides, inter alia, "the systematic collection and recording of quality of care data in such a way that the data are comparable to data from other healthcare providers of the same category'. Then these data should be systematically reviewed: does the way in which they are implemented lead to proper care? It is good to keep your finger on the pulse with regard to quality, but it must be avoided that this goes in the wrong direction in the execution, for example by overbureaucratisation or by the appointment of expensive quality managers. Such measures can, on the contrary, be at the expense of the patient's attention and care. How does the Minister ensure in the implementation that these counterproductive effects do not occur? I'd like a response. The detailed explanation of Article 7 states that the registers should also "account on the basis of aggregated numbers of performances delivered." When explaining such abstract numbers, there are risks of misinterpretation if certain factors are not properly taken into account. For example, mortality rates do not always say anything about the quality of the healthcare provider. I would like to illustrate this with a quote from the late Professor Bob Smalhout, who worked intensively on the problem of medical errors for decades: "(...) managers love numbers, numbers and statistics, because this is, for them, mostly wrongly, a measure of quality. However, there is a great danger in this system. In the unrepressible urge for self-glorification, hospitals will now develop a tendency to keep their mortality rates as low as possible. They can do this by not taking high-risk patients and also referring sick elderly people to other hospitals as much as possible." Does the Minister also see these risks in implementation? How can this be prevented? I'd like a response. Finally. Apart from these comments on the implementation of the bill, which we await with interest the Minister's response, the PVV Group believes that the objectives to improve the patient's position are urgently needed. We therefore hope that the implementation of this law will be quickly and adequately addressed by the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u78	I'm suspending the meeting for a break including dinner.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u79	Mr. Chairman. I congratulate Mr Don and Mrs Bredenoord on their maiden speech. We'll see each other more often when they have this wallet. I look forward to further discussions on all kinds of issues in health care. As a number of Members have pointed out, this bill has a very long and turbulent history. I consider this bill important in order to improve the balance between the provider and the client in our healthcare system. The bill touches the core of the concern. What quality can clients count on? What can clients rely on if things go wrong? How do we encourage healthcare providers to learn from complaints and incidents and thereby improve the quality of care? The law is meant to de-escalate. Often patients come in angry or disappointed with a claim, but when you talk to these people, it turns out very quickly that recognizing the client's position and finding a solution are the things that are really sought. In practice, I have already seen many healthcare providers working to the full satisfaction of the purpose of the Wkkgz. It is now about spreading that good level of implementation across all healthcare providers. Because care is about people. People need good care. Good quality care is also about the relationship between caregivers and clients. People expect personal attention and clear information. They also expect to be safe in the caregiver's hands. At the same time, it is also about expectations management in the care sector. Not everything can and the results are not always what one expected in advance. Let us not forget that around 17 million diagnoses are made every year and treatments are started. A lot of them go very well, but where people work, it happens that people do not always understand each other as well. Sometimes mistakes are made. If anyone complains about that, that complaint must be taken seriously. People need to be helped quickly and well. It is also important that caregivers learn from mistakes in care. Openness about complaints and incidents in the workplace and the willingness to learn from them are the basic idea behind this law. This law ensures that clients can rely on good care and proper handling of complaints and disputes. This law states what good care means and how complaints about healthcare in 2015 can be dealt with and handled, easily accessible and quickly, without getting caught up in all kinds of formal procedures. The law is not extra on top of what is already there, but replaces two other laws in this area, namely the Quality Act healthcare institutions and the Complaints Act clients care sector. I'd like to highlight the five most important changes. Firstly, I would like to mention the extension of the scope, which is one of the biggest changes. Large groups of healthcare providers are excluded from the functioning of the Quality Act, the BIG Act and the current Complaint Law Act. It's about solo-working health care workers without BIG registration. These will be covered by the Wkkgz. I think this is a desirable development, as the number of sole proprietors andzzp'ers in the care sector has increased considerably in recent years, with about 8,000 to 10,000 per year. In addition, it concerns all providers of care other than the care covered by the Long-Term Care Act or the Health Insurance Act, including providers of alternative medicines and cosmetic treatments. I do not think it can be explained that such providers should not comply with legal requirements in the area of quality, complaints and disputes, whereas providers of Zvw and Wlz care should. It concerns a group of approximately 40,000 providers of care other than Zvw or Wlz care who will be covered by the Wkkgz. In future, the Health Inspectorate can intervene better in these sectors in cosmetic treatments by alternative healers or soloists, in injecting botox, in laser treatments by non-BIGs, in underqualifiedzzp'ers in home care and in the garage ggz'er, to name but a few examples. In this sense, the law is regarded as support in the back by the Health Inspectorate, which is much easier to actually act in the event of abuses by this law. Another change concerns the introduction of an obligation for a care institution. If a health care professional is seriously dysfunctional and is dismissed, we do not want it to go back to work without proper consideration. Before a health care provider is hired, the health care institution must verify the functioning of that care provider in the past. In addition, new employees in Wlz care and inpatient ggz should be able to provide an explanation of behaviour. I will come back later to questions that have been asked about this. The healthcare provider shall also be required to report a dismissal due to serious dysfunction to the inspection. The inspection will then be able to identify the measures to be taken. In addition to sexual abuse, i.e. not in place, healthcare providers now have to report other forms of violence in the care relationship to the IGZ. These are matters which may be suspected to be covered by the Criminal Code, such as abuse or financial exploitation under duress. It is important that the inspection be able to verify whether the relevant healthcare provider has taken measures to prevent it from happening again. Learning incidents and complaints is paramount. It also includes the need for people working in healthcare to be able to report possible abuses in a safe manner, such as clumsy procedures that increase the risk of errors or medical technology that is not properly applied. The law requires healthcare providers to develop a system for reporting and analysing such incidents. Since 1999, we have known that the complaints committee that we prescribe in the current complaint law is not in line with the wishes and needs of clients today. This law contains a modern complaint regime. Complaint treatment gets a face: a complaint officer with whom you can walk in and call or e-mail. This official helps clients further and tries to resolve complaints quickly. Practice shows that a good conversation between the client and the healthcare provider or mediation works very well. This official is concerned with the solution of the problem and is therefore not a representative of one or the other. If the client and the healthcare provider do not come out among themselves, the client will be given the opportunity to submit his complaint to an independent arbitration body in the second instance. In doing so, the client is offered an alternative to the civil court. The introduction of this form of out-of-court dispute resolution is in line with developments in other sectors, such as consumer affairs and recently childcare. Such a dispute body will in practice have more knowledge of the care than a canton court. This will improve the quality of the statements. A number of members of the Chamber asked about the resistance of healthcare providers and healthcare providers to the Wkkgz. There is, that's obvious. At the same time, we see that a large number of providers are already working to the full satisfaction of the Wkkgz. I see it as an order to take the providers who oppose it, because the purpose of this law is de-escalation. The law gives healthcare providers every opportunity to deal with complaints easily and informally, more scope than the current law, which requires complaints to be resolved through formal proceedings in opposition. The experience of the complaints officers is that if the caregiver takes the client seriously and is open about what happened, most complaints are resolved to everyone's satisfaction and unnecessary judicialisation is avoided. The experience with the Disputes Committee is also positive in this regard. The figures show that the current Disputes Committee is dealing with a limited number of disputes that patients submit, which shows that patients make serious use of this possibility. Some healthcare sectors argue for the separate handling of complaints and claims. That distinction is, in my opinion, artificial. Practice shows that the content and relationship coincide. This law is committed to resolving the complaint quickly and easily, even if the complaint contains a claim for damages. An initial wish to file a claim for damages often goes from the table, when you have had an open conversation from person to person about what goes wrong and why one is so angry, and then in such a conversation to focus attention on: how can we solve it if damage is suffered, how can we remedy that you continue to suffer from that damage? People are much more open to this than having to file a claim if necessary. This is not only apparent from the experience in health care in different areas. We see this also in all kinds of dispute institutions that have both. What we have done is not unique. Where it already applies, we copied it. For example, there is a dispute committee in the financial services sector where complaints and claims are in one place. In the energy and telecommunications sectors there are also complaints and claims in one place. We have a whole series of examples in which this is already in one procedure. A claim that is initially notified as a claim often turns out to be a complaint that you can resolve together. If you separate that, you have to move from one route to another. This is generally not conducive to de-escalation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u80	Of course, there are many other examples, but all the examples mentioned by the Minister are not about a situation in which the relationship of trust that is at issue here is a par excellence. In other words, is the mixing of complaints and claims, which in the telecommunications or energy sectors may not lead to substantial problems, especially in the care sector of a different nature? If you want to keep it low-threshold and if you want to avoid legalization and a claim culture, shouldn't you be reluctant in this sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u81	Look at the experience so far with the dispute committees. I have written down the settlements and rulings of the Disputes Committees. We're actually talking about a few things. A body such as a complaints committee makes a digital statement: the complaint is justified or not justified. When you have human contact and talk to clients who are unhappy or angry, you often see that they are not so much looking for money. They often want that leg to function again. Then you look at each other and see how you can get that leg to function again. The care lends itself much more to one journey than a cold person who sells phone calls and with whom you have no other relationship. I would argue the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u82	I am not convinced by the comparison with other sectors, because there is something really different going on there. You need a separate reasoning why it will not lead to a strengthening of the claim culture here. The fact that there are not very many disputes of this kind at the moment does not say very much about what this law can achieve, contrary to the Minister's intention. I think we agree on that point. The question is whether this does not encourage a route which we consider undesirable and which is really of a different order in other sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u83	Look where it already works, for example at the private clinics. You can already allocate up to €25,000 there. We already have one handling for both of them. You can't say that there is a remarkable amount of right-wing claims there. At the other dispute committees we go up to €5,000, but we are already in one procedure. What I am saying here is supported by the experience there. People come in angry, they're disappointed, they might have had too high expectations, they can, because it doesn't always have to be the fault of the healthcare provider, but when the conversation is finally about the solution, you see more often that a claim becomes a complaint than the other way around. So you can see that in practice. I have just given examples of private clinics, but you can also see it in other dispute committees that can allocate money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u84	The Minister says that there are very few cases now before the Disputes Commission. That's true, but isn't it just because there's a complaints committee in between now? Those complaints committees also often do mediation. We share the plea to begin with conciliation, but the intermediate stage in which the problem is still between complaint and claim remains worrying. The Minister is rather optimistic about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u85	I have 14 investigations here that have been carried out since 1999. The latest study is from 2014. In these fourteen investigations, the complaints committee comes out negative of the evaluation. An important point from the evaluation of the complaints committees is that the committee's ruling is often digital: you have rightly or unjustly complained. That is why we are being turned against each other. With this law, we aim to simply allow a complaint officer to enter into the conversation and to seek a solution from the outset. So it's immediately focused on de-escalation instead of proving your own right opposite each other. I think that the way we are going now is much better in line with what we have learned from all these studies and where the crux is. There is often a very different experience about the functioning of a complaints committee between the professional and the client. The professional often assesses the functioning much more favourably than the client. I think, on the contrary, that the way in which it is done and which is aimed at dejuriation is not going to stand against each other, but together seeking a solution is much more in the direction pursued by Mrs Martens. We are not trying to achieve legalisation in health care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u86	We share that wish and goals. However, if the complaints committees are assessed negatively, we are interested in the question of why. Is that because the current law restricts the functioning of the complaints committees, or are they simply not working properly? In the latter case, you do not need a new arrangement, but you need to improve the functioning. The same applies to the complaint officer. The mediation role proposed by the law for the complaint officer is fine. Where there are complaints officers, they often play this role. A lot of complaints about the complaints officer come in at the Dutch National Contact Point Zorg. Defining the function in a legislative proposal alone does not yet mean that the function meets the desired objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u87	The Dutch Health Information Point doesn't have a lot of complaints about the complaints officer. In fact, the inspection insists on this law. The inspection is not negative about this law, but insists on setting up the complaint officer, as she expects it to be much better. The inspection also sees how it works in practice. Mrs Martens, for example, pointed out that the complaint officer was working well in the first line. NIVEL came up with a report in 2013 that doesn't come out very well at all. The study shows that more than a quarter of the people who are dissatisfied and who are complaining have left his GP. So that's not a good follow-up. That's escalation. This law assumes that the current law sets people against each other before the Complaints Commission. After everything that has been investigated and what has been advised to us, no one can maintain that it is now working so well. What works well in practice? That's the complaint officer. There are good experiences of this, including in the general practitioners' groups and regions. In the south of the Netherlands it works very well. If you put that against this evaluation, you can conclude that we are on the right track with "humanizing" rather than "processing" complaints from dissatisfied people. So you go to a human being of flesh and blood instead of submitting a form to a complaint committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u88	I'll jigsaw a little bit with the next one. Complaints and claims can be linked. You can make them run the same route. However, at the moment when there is fear of a claim, the professional will start to behave differently. He has to start acting differently from his civil liability insurance. At the moment when such a claim is put on the table by the patient or client, the mediation process is influenced by a complaint officer in my opinion. How does the Minister see that? Well, that does play a role.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u89	In practice, you see that one comes in with a claim and leaves the door with a complaint that you solve together. Compare it with the functioning of the Disputes Board that works at private clinics. This committee was set up in 2008. In 2009 she made her first ruling. Two statements were made in 2011. Two settlements were reached in 2012 and four rulings were made. In 2013, there were three settlements and two judgments and four settlements and four judgments in 2014. We have about 300 private clinics. Then you can't say that there are defensive and claim culture-like issues at stake here, can you? We are also going to support this by someone of flesh and blood who is focused on de-escalation, not in the service of the patient or the provider, but purely based on his competences to find a solution. If you look at the experiences that have been gained, we move to less than more. Although I have to say quite frankly that I am going to promise later that we will monitor it and that we will make it come back every year. After all, there are concerns in the Chamber, so we will monitor it and reconnect it. For me, it is not the case that more claims are always wrong. Sometimes there can be a very legitimate claim. Then I would very much like to see what's behind such a claim and whether there's something worrying going on. We see how it goes in other sectors, we see how it goes in the healthcare sector, we put the staff member next to it, and we are going to monitor developments every year. In this way, we are launching a very careful journey together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u90	I have a second question, which concerns the complaint officer, or rather, a person who can provide assistance. Now you have an impartial officer who can play an intermediary role. In practice, you sometimes see a conscious party official, in the form of a client confidant. Especially in the ggz you often see such a role fulfilled. The Minister only talks about an independent complaint officer, but how does she see the role of a client or patient confidant, who also has to do with a client's complaint and tries to find a way out of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u91	The complaint officer shall be appointed in consultation with the healthcare provider and, for example, the Customer Council. If there isn't, you'll join the client organization. They need to agree on such a staff member. The provider may say that a client confidant stands up for the client and that no independent official is needed. This role can then be placed with the client confidant. That is possible, but the healthcare provider must take the step himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u92	I'll translate it. If the healthcare provider chooses to give this role to a client confidant, a party complaint officer, we can, but we expect him to engage in a dialogue about his position with his own client and within his own organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u93	Yes, and the inspection will monitor the procedure and the quality of the staff member.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u94	I suggest that the Minister continue her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u95	Another point is the high control pressure. That's always something you need to be alert to in the care, because we better have less than more rules. The additional costs for the 90,000 providers added together amount to around €9 million per year. That's calculated by both Actal and Sira. The additional costs per healthcare provider are limited to around €100 per year. If the healthcare providers organise their complaint handling smarter and cheaper, as the Wkkgz also allows, the costs will be at most €20 to €30 per healthcare provider per year. I believe that these costs per healthcare provider, given the objectives of the law, are acceptable. A lot of questions have come up about the safe reporting of incidents. Is it Safe Incident Report (VIM) safe if you follow the Wkkgz? Until now, the safe reporting of incidents is not legally protected. The Wkkgz is gonna take care of that protection. Which regulates that only the D.A. has access to the data from the Secure Incident Notification System. This creates an additional guarantee for healthcare professionals so that they can report matters safely. At the same time, the Public Prosecutor does not have access to that information. This is only the case in very exceptional cases, namely in cases of suspicion of a serious criminal offence. Think murder or manslaughter. Moreover, the information on this should not be available in any other way from the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Public Prosecutor's Office must go through a careful procedure. Getting permission from the Judge Commissioner is a prerequisite for this. This has made it safe to report much safer. The law also protects the health care provider's position. The law provides that the staff directly involved in the procedures for the safe reporting of an incident and in the complaint and dispute procedures may not provide information from those procedures to others: a duty of confidentiality. The D.A. can only access data from the Secure Incident Notification System in case of serious suspicions of serious criminal offences, such as murder and manslaughter, after a careful procedure and with the permission of the Judge Commissioner. The dispute settlement body applies and is obliged to disclose judgments in such a way that they cannot be traced back to those directly concerned. It is also pleasant for a healthcare provider and a healthcare provider if complaints can be resolved quickly through a good conversation. This improves trust in the relationship. An independent complaint officer can be an important support for this. This law is a framework law, which allows for further elaboration. For example, healthcare providers have greater freedom to resolve complaints to everyone's satisfaction and can be customised. The obligation to have complaints resolved by complaints committees is abolished. This doesn't mean they're forbidden. Where this added value is provided, healthcare providers are free to continue to use it. For example, the Wkkgz offers more space to healthcare providers than the current Wkcz. The Wkkgz allows healthcare providers to fill in obligations in the Wkkgz in such a way that it suits their own care organisation. I understand that this leads to questions about practical implementation. Healthcare providers will have another year after the Wkkgz enters into force to set up their complaint and dispute settlement in accordance with the Wkkgz. I have heard many members of the Chamber very well. It is very important that we implement the Wkkgz through a careful process. That will begin when the law is accepted by your Chamber. Particular attention will be paid to the different ways in which healthcare providers can practically complete the Wkkgz and to the concerns expressed by various interest groups of healthcare providers and healthcare providers. Examples of frontrunners in this area will be used to inspire other healthcare providers and healthcare providers. Although many healthcare providers already work according to the intention of the law, I would like all healthcare providers to do so. I have three final points to make. The first is in line with this. I think that we should not look at each other, because in the end we do not want any justice. We all want de-escalation. We all want it to be resolved in personal conversations as much as possible. We do not want any unnecessary procedures. We want as little extra costs as possible for providers. We do want clear procedures and more quality. So we need to look at how we get healthcare providers, including those who are still sceptical or insecure, to implement this law properly. If this bill is accepted, we will do a round through the Netherlands and in particular talk to small healthcare providers. We will also do hand-outs as needed, for example with the Secure Incident Report. This is new for some small healthcare providers. The Ministry can help small healthcare providers with hand-outs. A second point I have heard from many is attention to the Social Support Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u96	You're talking about "a hand-out" and "supporting the smaller healthcare providers." Is it an idea to involve the sector organisations of the healthcare providers closely in the question of how such a support plan could look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u97	Certainly, if we do such a round, it is customary for us to organise it together with the interbranch organisations, or at least in consultation with the interbranch organisations, so that their members can know that it is taking place, get information there and share their concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u98	Mr Don, in your enthusiasm, can you speak through the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u99	Mr President, you are absolutely right. There is a great deal of resistance among the first-line organisations in particular. I don't want to flatten it, but it doesn't work to say: a round through the Netherlands and the problem is solved. I'm looking for a little bit of how you give such a round hands and feet and what you can actually offer. I understand that it's a bit crazy to say that right now, but what do you really offer the first-line workers for reinforcement, since you're asking a lot of them, so they're going to act as you see fit?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u100	I have just given a very good example of how general practitioners in the South of the Netherlands have arranged it. They didn't get the GP by GP. They've taken care of it in common. You can share or appoint a complaint officer as a group of general practitioners in the region. You can design such a procedure with each other regionally. You don't have to do that one at a time. In such a tour, for example, you also take with you general practitioners who already work according to the Wkkgz and have gained good experience with it, so that you can learn from each other and find out what remains for which the ministry should do a hand-out. We will have to deal with this in a pragmatic and practical way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u101	Is there anything to be done about this in the form of financial support?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u102	That's not the first thing I think about. I've indicated how much money it's about. If you set it up efficiently, you are talking about €20 to €30 per institution or per group. Well, that's a good thing to pay for. We can better spend that money on other things, but we must help to set it up efficiently and properly, so that not everyone invents their own wheel. If this law is adopted, we as a government have an obligation to help healthcare providers, especially the first line and small healthcare providers, to set it up efficiently and practically.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u103	I hear you say: I want to humanize rather than process; I want to de-escalate. But I'd like to hear more concretely from you. You are also talking about the frontrunners in the implementation process. How are you gonna bet that de-escalating? Is this question about best practices and about open communication sufficiently addressed? Do we know how to de-escalate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u104	We can learn from the evaluations. These evaluations have taught us a number of things that we have done differently in the law. Under this law, we have talked to a lot of organisations that work according to that pattern. Then you can see which elements are very important in that. One is that you have a person of flesh and blood who isn't going to find out how to further support a complaint, but who says, "God, you're dissatisfied, how do we solve it?" So you're going straight to work with those complaints from a different perspective. I think it will work very well if you talk about the implementation on the basis of the good examples from our own sector, after all, you don't have to bring in the good examples from the general practitioners to the ggz their own institutions where things are going very well. You can also answer and address genuine concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u105	The Minister talks about best practices. How is she going to take the aid workers into that? There is a need for a certain cultural change. I don't think you're gonna get it done in a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u106	No, that's my third point. Mrs Bredenoord rightly said that a cultural change is needed. You'll always have forerunners and stragglers. Training is crucial in this respect. I see that this cultural change is already being made in training. In her speech, Mrs Bredenoord said that we should not only be in front of the end but also in front of it. In view of this, this is of course an incredibly important element. I would therefore like to pledge to the Chamber that that was the third point at the end of my speech that I will explicitly ask the trainers to pay more attention to this. All kinds of elements of this law require that cultural change. I will ask the trainers to address these elements much more explicitly in the training. I now turn to the third point. I would like to return to the first point I would like to make. A number of Members have drawn attention to the fact that the Wmo is not included. The Health Insurance Act and the Long-Term Care Act, the Wlz, are covered. Child care is linked to it. There's gonna be a bill to equalize it. However, this is not done for the Wmo, while there are various forms of cooperation in this context, for example in neighbourhood teams. The bill, the Wmo 2015, contained a number of articles that equated the quality, complaints and disputes procedure with those contained in this bill. However, that part has been amended. This has been done by VVD, Party of Labour, CDA, D66, ChristianUnion, SGP, 50PLUS and Van Vliet. I looked it up just in case. So this bill was intended as a framework for all these laws, but the Wmo's piece has been amended. The fact that we had put that in the Wmo already indicates that I am positive about the fact that this framework law also includes the Wmo. Then everyone can still deliver their own customization. For the hospitals, it is different than for the ggz and the general practitioners. That's already the case and that's why the Wmo is different. This point has only been amended. It happens sometimes that a bill that is dealt with in the First Chamber has been amended in the Lower House. Therefore, there are no similar articles in the Wmo 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u107	It is good that the Minister is pointing out to us the wisdom that perhaps was not there at the time and now it is. Does the Commission therefore intend to commit itself to a legislative amendment to that effect in order to extend the scope of the Wkkgz?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u108	I can bring the feelings that are widely shared in this Chamber to the attention of the Secretary of State. I think it would be a good idea to look again at the willingness in the Lower House, because a proposal always goes through the Lower House. So I think it would be a good idea to ask the House of Representatives if it would reconsider whether it is wise to do so. Especially for the district teams, which we see as a very important innovation, it is important to achieve this. So I can assure this Chamber that I would like to enter that pulse.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u109	Can a motion help the Minister or is this commitment sufficient to get going? I can imagine that a broadly signed motion from the First Chamber could support the political groups in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u110	I'll leave motions to the Chamber. I heard her right. Even those parties who have amended these provisions from the proposal during the examination in the Lower House of the House of Representatives, here is something else. Well, there's a ratio to that, too. Let me keep to my duties. I can promise you I'm gonna talk to the House of Representatives about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u111	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u112	With us, there is still the question of how exactly that translates into the Wmo domain. Of course, you have all kinds of roles, tasks and forms of care and participation. The district teams play a role in this. You have the role of the city. Can you just translate this one-on-one into the Wmo domain or does it require some fine-tuning to properly formulate the responsibilities in it? I'd like to hear that from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u113	We had put a number of articles in the Wmo that joined the Wkkgz. So we did not say that the Wkkgz is also about the Wmo. We would have said what qualitative requirements you could make and what you could ask about dealing with complaints. So a number of things fit in with this. So we would have done it the other way around. What form is best seems to me to be something to consider.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u114	It's an interesting thought to see how that connects. Then it's about the care complaint. How does that relate to the dispute settlement body? Several organisations may be subject to very different administrative dispute procedures. Isn't that gonna keep biting each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u115	Of course, we also have very different dispute committees now. They were created by the sector itself. I am very much in favour of this, because there is knowledge in that committee about the complaints and the disputes that you could submit. The issues related to this were in particular about quality and complaint procedures. I have already promised that I will look into the extent to which one fits in with the other or the other with one and which should therefore fall under when you begin to do so. I will take this issue explicitly into account. To put it more simply, I can promise the Chamber to pay explicit attention to this. This was my introduction. Some things have been asked by several members. I'll try not to double-treat this. Questions were asked about the opinion of the Council of State. How do I feel about that? Don't I have a message for that at all? The Council of State advised on the Wcz. A lot of criticisms by the Council of State are about parts that are no longer in the Wkkgz. In particular, these are parts relating to the WGBO, which have been removed from this legislative proposal. I think that in my introduction I said enough about complaint and claim, at least I hope so. I come to the appointment of the Disputes Committee and its composition. Influence on the composition of the individual Disputes Commission has been secured in several ways. On a collective level, this is regulated by the law. Organisations of patients and healthcare providers shall jointly establish a dispute settlement body and agree on rules for this purpose. On an individual level, this is regulated by a separate ministerial arrangement. An example of this is the possibility for the parties to object to a member of the arbitration body.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u116	May I interrupt the Minister for a question from Mrs Martens?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u117	I'll come back to the point of complaint and claim. If the Minister comes back to that later, it will lapse, but my group will ask another question about it. Is it necessary to submit the complaint and the claim at the same time or can it be done in two stages? Do you always have to file the complaint and the claim at the same time, or can you handle the complaint first and then go to the Disputes Committee for the claim again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u118	It's possible, but you'll see that it's often collapsing. So you'll see that a claim that is highly committed becomes a complaint or vice versa. But what Mrs Martens says can be done. So you can avenge yourself individually. You can appoint peers from your own sector to sit on a dispute committee dealing with a case. I agree with the recognition system of the Ministry of Security and Justice on consumer matters. That recognition system therefore also applies to the healthcare dispute committees. For example, the chairman must also be a master of law. In practice, it is often judges who take over the Presidency. In addition to the basic requirements of the scheme, the parties have scope to agree on complementary requirements. There have been concerns from the field. Something new is coming and as I said, I understand that you don't know what's coming at you, especially when you're little. When the law comes into force, I see it as my duty to make the most of it to get everyone involved and to find solutions together to problems that have arisen. A fundamental question is, of course, what is the solution to this problem? In fact, all those evaluations that we have listed were rather worrying. They take a negative view of how we have dealt with it in the Quality Act and the Complaints Law Act. The client's position requires reinforcements. Both laws are aimed at some of the healthcare providers. Large groups of healthcare providers are not covered by current regulations. The quality law is only aimed at healthcare institutions and the BIG Act is only aimed at solo-working healthcare providers with a protected title. The number of sole proprietors orzzp'ers in the care sector increases annually by 8,000 to 10,000. I have already mentioned the providers of cosmetic interventions and alternative treatments. They have no legal requirements for quality of care and no regulation for complaints and disputes. This involves 40,000 suppliers. The IGZ cannot, therefore, intervene there or insufficiently in excesses. Current laws and regulations do not provide safeguards to protect the health care provider from the systems already in place in practice to safely report an incident. Not everywhere that should be, safe systems to report an incident are already practice. Abuse or coercion of the Code of Criminal Law are not covered by the current reporting obligation for healthcare providers at the inspection. Caregivers who have been dismissed for serious dysfunctions are often not in the picture at the inspection, as such redundancies do not need to be reported to the inspection at this time. There are still healthcare providers who do not inform clients about incidents or are late. This law stipulates that if there is an incident, including the patient involved, you must report that something has gone wrong. What is not possible and with the Wkkgz will be possible? The final responsibility of the Management Board for the quality of care has been further developed in the Wkkgz and so such a board of directors can be called upon to do so. The scope is wider, as I said. The right to choice information for the client is laid down in the Wkkgz. I really think it is a modernisation that indicates from which options a patient can choose and what the pluses and minuses of those options are. The Wkkgz is a low-threshold and affordable alternative to the civil court by the Disputes Committee for cases where the client and the healthcare provider cannot come to a solution together. I think that independent arbitration body is an important part of the law. We all know examples of medical cases being brought to justice, which sometimes last seven years. You need a lot of money for lawyers to run those procedures. The patients who have experienced this are very much in favour of the dispute committee that sits in the middle. Of course you can always go straight to court, but if there is nothing between nothing and the judge, such a dispute committee is a really important step.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u119	The minister says it's low-threshold. We now sometimes have a complaint officer or a complaints committee that is free of charge, but people do have to pay for the Disputes Committee and get that money back only if they are agreed. Will she come back to my question about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u120	I'm with the CDA's first speaker now, so it's gonna go on for a while. But I can give you an answer right now, which is that you'll agree to it yourself. It is now set at €50. You can also agree to set it to zero. I admit that I will explicitly take into account how this develops in practice in the evaluation. Then I come to the three-stage rocket, an alternative proposal from the LHV. This seems to me to encourage unnecessary legalization and accumulation. The Wkkgz is committed to the informal resolution of complaints and claims. In line with the LHV's proposal, the complaint officer shall first attempt to arrive at a mutually agreed solution. If you don't get out of it, the dispute settlement authority can provide an alternative to the courtroom. So the client has a choice; he can go to the Disputes Committee, but he can also go to court. If you put a complaint board in there, that's an extra step. This leads to additional costs and additional bureaucracy. It's okay, but this law doesn't prescribe it. It was claimed that the first line was properly evaluated in 2013 and found sufficient. You can disagree about whether it has been properly evaluated, when you see the results, for example how many patients have ever experienced something that did not go well. 27% of the patients did not get out with the GP and eventually left the GP, so that's more than a quarter. You can see that 48% is satisfied with the general practitioner's reaction, but you can also see that 17% went to a colleague of the general practitioner. You can see large, inexplicable differences in the number of complaints filed per committee. You see hard-to-interpret information in annual reports. Everyone can have their own opinion on that NIVEL research, but our opinion is that it has not been properly evaluated. What can you do with that first line? Then you must be able to organize it proportionally. We do not expect all general practitioners to employ a complaint officer themselves. That would be really unworkable, but as a regional association, you can hire a complaint officer so you can share it. You can also have it arranged by the industry organisation, which makes regional chambers or departments, for example. You can organize that in all kinds of different ways. We are very willing to help in this and to make suggestions in the first line, where things are already going very well. Isn't the client gonna be more alone? I don't think so, because that complaint officer is a person of flesh and blood, where you can really walk in, who you can call or e-mail and who can help if you don't know what to do with a complaint. A client can also call the National Health Service. You can turn that on. That's not someone who's going to work for the client, but the procedure is being monitored. One can say: something has been submitted, the deadline has expired, why have you not responded and so on. If the client does not come out with the healthcare provider, he can go to the arbitration body. That's much more accessible and faster than the courtroom corridor. The client is entitled to information about an incident. Recent research by the NPCF shows that this is only necessary. The client is entitled to choice information, for example on the success rate in a particular operation with a healthcare provider. These are examples that make the client's position really better. It has also been asked why the trusted person in psychiatry cannot be involved as the patient's representative. In mental health care, there are indeed independent confidants. They are financed nationally and not by the healthcare provider. If the healthcare provider chooses that such a trusted person takes on this role, in coordination with the client representation, it can do so. Then he won't be independent anymore, but he'll be more involved in the client's best interests. This can only be done if the provider explicitly sees this as a matter of fact. Does the client no longer have a possibility of appeal after a binding opinion, because the judge only has a marginal review? You have dispute resolution in the healthcare sector and as a final part of the system, you always have the opportunity to go to court. That's up to the client; he can always choose that. It is true that the judge will check whether the procedure went well and whether everything went well. If the verdict is very strange and weird, the judge can also look at it in substance, but it must be very different. Otherwise, it would indeed be a procedural test. This was actually a repetition of the judgment on how well the Complaints Commission works.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u121	I just want to confirm what the Minister says. De facto, therefore, the right of appeal lapses because the judge is merely a procedural judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u122	You're going to the judge. Who checks whether everything went smoothly or not. You can always go to court if you don't think you've been treated properly. If the verdict is very strange and deviant, the judge may still have an opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u123	If I understand correctly, therefore, the possibility of appeal does not lapse. You can go to court now, and you can stay that way. One can also opt for a dispute committee. If one disagrees, one can still go to court. The number of appeals is therefore by no means reduced. However, the number of options will be increased.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u124	Yes, it is a more accessible possibility that we add to the system. Mr. Chairman. I'm going into the low-threshold of the current system. Mrs Martens stated that de facto the legal basis of a mandatory, accessible, inexpensive, internal, independent complaint procedure through the complaints committee, close to the healthcare provider and the client, expires. According to the evaluation, that's what the client thinks very differently. He doesn't have those warm feelings of "low-threshold and independent." ZonMw and NIVEL always signal the same signals about the current complaint law: complaining to a complaints committee is difficult, the results are often unsatisfactory, the complaints committee is not perceived as independent, there is a need for a personal conversation and the corridor to the civil court is too expensive and too heavy. I also get these signals from conversations with patients, complaint officers and patient associations. Also, the National Health Information Point detects the same signals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u125	This keeps coming back. On the one hand, it is the legal system, on the other hand, there is the patient's experience. The question now is whether the complaints committees are not legally properly regulated. In theory, you can imagine that even in the dispute committees patients say: I am not satisfied with the ruling; I find it not at all accessible and I find it very difficult because I am on my own. You can imagine anything. But here is the question of whether it is legally different. I don't see that yet. Now there is a legal basis for the low-threshold complaints committees. If they don't work properly, you could do something about it. It's only after that, depending on how you function, that you might say something about the patients' feelings.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u126	We do, because you shouldn't compare the Complaints Committee with the Disputes Committee. You have to compare the complaints committee with the complaints officer. The complaints committee is not functioning. That is why we go to the complaint officer, in a much more freer form and with the possibility of tailor-made work at an institution. Institutions are much better able to see for themselves what works well with them. The Complaints Committee should therefore not be compared with the Disputes Committee, but with the Officer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u127	Fine, but I was actually concerned that patients' feelings should be compared with the legal regime on other points. That's two very different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u128	No, we have now made it mandatory that the Complaints Committee should be there. It's a legal arrangement. Turns out it's not working. So we are gonna get rid of that and we're gonna make legal arrangements for officials to come. That's the step we're taking. Mr. Chairman. I now turn to the definition of good care versus the definition of the Healthcare Institute. I was asked whether I would be prepared to formulate the definition of good care in such a way that it would automatically conform to the definition developed by the Healthcare Institute in due course, and that clients would be involved in the development of future definitions. That's exactly how we handle it. Article 2 (2) (b) of the Wkkgz refers for the definition of good health care to the professional standards, including those registered in the Register of the Zorginstituut (Zorginstituut). The term "quality standards" will be used for standards in the Register of the Healthcare Institute in accordance with the undertaking given to this Chamber in the treatment of the law governing the Health Care Institute. The Health Insurance Act provides that professional standards can only be registered in the register of the Health Care Institute if these are offered tripartitely, i.e. together with the client organisations. The Healthcare Institute checks whether the client organisations are adequately involved. How does the inspection monitor 40,000 new care providers of other care strongholds? Will there be more money and resources? What are the measures? It was also noted that "other care" does not have to be "good care," but knows the definition of "no harm." We would like the following in the case of abuses in relation to alternative medicine. We do not have an assessment of its quality, because we do not know any quality standards. However, a patient may have a complaint if someone who practises alternative treatments wrongs him during treatment. There is nothing we can do about it and nothing we can do about it. Many Dutch people use alternative medicine. I therefore believe it is important that they should be given greater legal certainty, that they should be able to submit a complaint to a complaint officer and that they should be able to say that I have been mistreated and have a complaint about a healthcare professional. It is not about whether someone works according to standards, but about how a patient has been treated, whether he has been properly referred to and whether he has otherwise been treated in such a way that he has not been harmed. Indeed, the definition for this is something else. I have also always been surprised that people go to all kinds of beauty specialists who laser and do all kinds of other activities. Something goes wrong all the time. I would also like to limit what is happening there, because I do not want drugs to be sprayed. The inspection simply needs more grounds for action, both in the area of cosmetic care and alternative care. It is not the case that the inspection will be carried out by 40,000 healthcare professionals, because it is monitoring risk-driven. But if she learns that there is a miscarriage, she can do much better on the basis of this law. So it's basically a back-up. These caregivers also have to report calamities properly to the inspection. If they do not and do not write them down in the patient files, the inspection can actually deal with them. I think it is a good thing that we are going to operate tighter in this and give the inspection a little more cover. It's also about the register. The inspection said to me: we are supposed to control the new entrants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u129	I have another question about the previous point. The Minister says that there will be an obligation for healthcare providers to inform patients or clients about the results on which treatment is based. She mentioned the alternative care providers. It says literally that there should be information about whether or not there is a scientifically proven efficacy of care. How is the Minister going to monitor this concretely with all healthcare providers who do not necessarily claim that they offer scientifically proven care? After all, there are quite a few of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u130	We call them "providers of other care" in the law. They do not have to give proper care, because you have guidelines, protocols and so on, which are different for this. It must be care that does not harm, because alternative care is a characteristic that there are no standards for it that are registered at the Quality Institute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u131	If I understand correctly, good care is scientifically proven care, and has other care as standard that it does not harm. That's the distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u132	Yes, we cannot judge which alternative care is good, because we do not have standards and scientific evidence base for that. But the inspection can prove that an alternative care provider has done damage to a patient. And that's not allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u133	But in fact every invasive act causes damage to the body, if it is seen literally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u134	Yes, but a lot of actions cannot be done by an alternative healer either, because they are reserved for, for example, a BIG-registered one. So I do read certain things in the newspaper about alternative doctors doing things that I think are not allowed to do at all. The inspection thinks so, too. She can intervene in this and with this law she can do it a little easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u135	Thank you for the clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u136	I'll be on the register. A lot of things you want to start in the Netherlands, you have to register. I've always been surprised that you can open a clinic without having to sign it up. The inspection had to check an institution six months after the start and there was a major problem. She'd have to check the Trade Register. If she did and came by, the institution would have registered in the Trade Register, but it would not have started for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u137	There were all kinds of things that we said: how can you supervise a sector where you don't even have to report that you're going to do medical work? So we're gonna dress up a register that includes all the caregivers. This also applies to providers of so-called "other care." That's no guarantee of quality. It's not being tested at all. The point is that the NZa and IGZ know where and by whom care is provided, so that they can actually see it easily and do not have to visit clinics through telephone books and search trips. They have all the healthcare providers in mind through that register. This allows them to monitor providers with risk-based supervision. Let's be honest: if you start a tattoo shop in the Netherlands, you have to ask for a permit. If you opened a clinic, however, you didn't have to register anywhere. At least that was something I had a hard time explaining. So I think it is incredibly important that we at least have an idea that there are carers and where they are. There's a lot going well. That's right. I have also indicated how many diagnoses are being made and how much care is being provided. There's a lot going on incredibly well. When you come up with a tightening of a law, it's always hard to focus on what's not going well. However, I am not making this law at all for what is going well. For what goes well, you also don't have to do anything extra, because that works well. I really want us to close the hole where it doesn't go well. We don't have a law for people who stop at a red light. We just have a law and sanctions for people who run a red light. In the healthcare system, there is a balance between three parties: the provider, the insurer and the clients. This law is about the fact that clients had too few rights in a modern law. These are given in this law, but also clarified for caregivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u138	I note that this is an example in which the Minister has a different view of reality than the healthcare providers who, according to the Minister, are already doing well. They say they have to change regulations with this law and describe functions, even if they are doing well. It's often not one-on-one the same as the law suggests.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u139	I think that "doing good" means that all parties are satisfied. If one of the three is really dissatisfied with how we arranged it, and we find a way in which we can arrange it fairly practically, then I think this is actually a very reasonable request, even if you look at the costs you ask for per institution. The proposal has many degrees of freedom for providers. We're not forcing them into a straitjacket at all. There is an enormous amount of customization possible per sector. However, I have heard the concerns of the Chamber about whether all small healthcare providers will be able to experience this and about the single pitters. The government therefore has a duty to take these concerns seriously and to work together to find solutions that make them feel happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u140	About what the costs are, the visions differ. The Minister says that those who do well don't have to do anything extra. After all, they are doing well. Those who already work well and whose complaints are already working well say: with this law we have to do a lot of new things; we have new obligations and we have to describe functions differently. They say: it is good, but it is not one-on-one according to the law; it is in the spirit of the law, but it does not comply with the law. The Minister doesn't have to respond to this. Of course, that's fine, but it's actually a statement I'd like to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u141	I would then ask Mrs Martens to include in her consideration the investigations on which this legislative amendment is based. The conclusions from this do not lie. We had Actal take a look at the line pressure. We don't dispute them. They don't dispute us either. We've converted their line pressure to settings. On the basis of Actal's report, Sira converted what this actually means per institution in November 2014.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u142	I would like to support Mrs Martens. I agree with her that there are different images of reality. Her image of reality is also different from the image of reality that my group perceives after several conversations with the field. Those who already have a complaint officer and who are already members of a dispute committee were told that they consider this bill to be superfluous in the sense that they are already doing so. However, they are pleased that the unregistered and quality-based aid workers are now also involved. There I certainly did not hear the story that people are so sorry that they will lose €100 a year from now on, or let it be €500, to make sure that all professionals and all colleagues should have this system to a reasonable extent. Indeed, our perception of reality differs from that of the CDA, and even to a rather large extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u143	Actal reported a few weeks ago that not all elements of control pressure were included in the latest calculations, including Sira. The Minister refers to 2014, but that information is somewhat older than that about which they informed me or what is in the November 2014 letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u144	Actal provided an ex ante-phase advice to the Council of Ministers on the regulatory burden of the Wcz bill in accordance with the standard procedure 2009-2010. That involved four parts. By means of a letter of amendment, the bill for the Wkkgz has become as it now stands. So that's a whole different bill. The First Chamber has asked for advice to chart the regulatory burden on me. The Sira report was made in November 2014. Actal gave advice on that. This set, i.e. Sira's control push button and Actal's advice, was sent to the First Chamber in November 2014. That's the relevant line push button. As a result of the contribution of the First Chamber, we called Actal to ask if we missed anything and if we did another test afterwards. That is not the case. The Actal test I have in front of me is the test that shows that the regulatory pressure for companies is 8.9 million and that for citizens is 1 million. Together, that's 9.9 million. That's a total of 10 million. If you convert that into institutions, you get to an average burden, which Sira has said: if you do it more efficiently than the average, you get to that €20 to €30. You'll have to do something for that. That is why I believe that we should be motivated to move through the country, to actually show people how to do it as efficiently as possible. I have already indicated on the implementation burden of the small healthcare provider that we are doing everything we can to ensure that it is set up as efficiently as possible. I will explicitly include the issue of regulatory pressure as a result of the Wkkgz in the review of the law, as requested by the VVD Group. I think I follow Mr Bruijn's reasoning as regards the increase in claims through informal dispute resolution. I would like to point out to D66 that the six weeks have been set up because people complaining to a complaints committee sometimes had to wait months. Why did we set up those six weeks? So they can hear something. Should it be completed in six weeks? Well, you can't do that sometimes. Sometimes you need an investigation, or you need to ask. However, it is only natural that within six weeks you hear from the complaint officer that your complaint has been arrested, that there has been a first conversation about it, or that it has been found that an investigation is necessary that may take up to three months. So it sometimes seems very logical to me that you can't complete it all in six weeks and an extension of four weeks. If you can, you can. But precisely because people had to wait a very long time it all got bigger and bigger. Instead, if you get there quickly and get around the table quickly, you'll get a quick handling and you'll be much lower in the escalation ladder. I share Mr Bruijn's thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u145	So, let me get this straight, that six-week line has two functions. The first function is that the patient should have a response within six weeks. The second function is that after six weeks the patient himself may decide to go to the Disputes Committee. So that's what that six-week line does?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u146	In those six weeks, you must have picked it up, you must have gotten to work with it, you must have got to work with it. You'll have another four weeks of delay after that. But let's say it's not finished after those ten weeks and then the patient says, "I'm out of patience, I'm going to the Disputes Committee," when there's every reason why it can't be resolved. There's an investigation, an expert's being asked, someone's being consulted. Then the Disputes Committee says: "Yes, sorry, but you'll have to wait for that. It is, of course, a matter of being reasonable in terms of stating that it is intended to be picked up immediately and to get straight to work, precisely for this de-escalation, but that it is reasonable to look at the handling of such a complaint and the length of time it takes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u147	I still don't understand whether a patient is allowed to go to the Disputes Committee after six weeks or ten weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u148	The patient can go to the Disputes Committee whenever he wants, but the Disputes Committee will say: but you did not even wait for the reaction of your institution, so it seems to me that you should go back first. Also the Dutch Health Information Point will then refer back and not to the Disputes Committee. But you're not supposed to leave the case for three months and then start another investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u149	Finally, Mrs Bredenoord.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u150	I understood it so that six weeks was actually the threshold. The patient goes first to the complaint officer and then, if necessary, to the Disputes Committee, but you are actually saying that the patient is actually entitled to decide the course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u151	Yes, of course your case is not very strong if after three weeks you have not waited for the answer and go to the Disputes Committee. Then there is the chance that the Disputes Committee will say, "What exactly are you doing here?" Very big. You don't see that happening in practice either. What you do see happening in practice in the current situation is that it takes a very long time for a case to be dealt with. Then digitally you get right/not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u152	I think the Minister should know a lot, but that aside. Now I'm a GP, I have a patient who complains, I have an independent complaint officer and he doesn't come out with the patient. What happens then? The patient says, "I have a complaint, I'm not being heard." Then the patient should actually go straight to the Disputes Committee, which is the line that we are looking for. But then there's something missing, isn't there? The general practitioner must answer a complaint about himself, as it were. So I find that a somewhat confusing situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u153	Through the chairman, Mr. Don.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u154	Requirements are laid down for the complaint procedure, which is also reviewed by the inspection. So it's not like the GP is judging his own complaint. There is a complaints officer who has been established with the agreement of, in this case, a patient association in the region, say the Utrecht region, perhaps by all general practitioners in Utrecht together. They've got one of those complaints officers in there. Then you go about GP X to that complaint officer, who's trying to mediate in that complaint. I am not interfering with the patient when he goes to court; only the judge will say: sorry, but what have you actually tried and is this justified? I can also imagine, for example, that you have a complaint about sexual violence and that you are not waiting for mediation with your GP at all, because you do not want to sit around the table with him because you have a complaint about sexual violence. You may then go directly to the Disputes Committee or to the judge, but for a lot of complaints of a very different nature, the Disputes Committee and the judge will also see to what extent you have entered into conversation to get out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u155	The LHV...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u156	Mr. Don...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u157	Madam President, I'm making another mistake. However, the LHV fears that the butcher will have to examine his own flesh. But you don't foresee that the GP should assess a complaint against himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u158	No, because in practice what we already see in some family doctor groups will happen. There you often see that some complaints officers are appointed in a regional context. Then you go to one of those complaints officers. If it's okay, you go to the doctor first and you say: GP, I'm really sorry that this is happening. When the doctor says, "I don't have time for that," you go to the complaint officer and say, "I'm sorry that the doctor doesn't even want to hear my complaint." That's how it's supposed to be. So you'd rather go to your own care provider first, but if that doesn't work out, you can go to a complaint officer. That is not your own general practitioner, but an official who has to meet the requirements of the profession of officials. Such requirements shall be used as a field standard by the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u159	Finally, Mr Don, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u160	No, thank you, Mr. Chairman, I'm ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u161	I can promise that in the evaluation I will also pay attention to the new complaint and dispute settlement, including the development of number of complaints and claims. I will inform your Chamber in advance of the design of the evaluation. What exactly will be measured at zero? Is the number of claims, per unit of time, notifications, procedures, patient satisfaction, satisfaction among healthcare providers and healthcare providers considered? All these themes will be taken into account in the zero measurement. I intend to combine the research in this field that is already available in a meta-study. This meta-study should indicate the current state of play with regard to the themes mentioned by Mr Bruijn. The central theme of the Wkkgz is openness and learning about complaints and incidents to improve the quality of care. The review after five years is concerned, in particular, with assessing whether that objective is being achieved. In any event, it is also necessary to clarify the evolution of the number of disputes with the dispute bodies and the number of financial claims. I have already addressed the LHV's proposal in which both are proposed. The fear of undermining reporting readiness has been raised by the KNMG and the Branch Organisations Care. So far, safe reporting of incidents has not been legally protected at all. I have just indicated that this law provides for a legal protection for the safe reporting, which is actually not there, at least not in this size. The D.A. must therefore also be extremely careful. It's an extreme case that she can look at. As regards the guarantees for the position of the healthcare provider, the Wkkgz regulates the rights and obligations of the care provider and clients. The law therefore also contains several provisions that protect the position of the healthcare provider. The caregiver's protector is the confidentiality that is regulated for the safe reporting of incidents and the complaint and dispute procedures. That is in line with the professional secrecy of a health care professional. If a healthcare professional informs a client or his representative of an incident under Article 10 of the Wkkgz, he does not violate his professional secrecy. It remains information in the treatment relationship between caregiver and client. In the Wkkgz, one of the caregivers derived professional secrecy was imposed on IGZ inspectors. A report to them of a calamity, violence in the care relationship or dismissal for serious dysfunction is not contrary to professional secrecy. The dispute settlement body applies and is obliged to make public judgments in such a way that they cannot be traced back to persons. The same goes for soloists. The low-threshold resolution of complaints and the role of the complaints officer are also in the interests of the caregivers. So I think that means that there are adequate guarantees for the position of the caregivers. The client can always choose. He may choose the civil court or the arbitration body. The dispute settlement body is a form of out-of-court conflict resolution. In many cases, this procedure will be faster, cheaper and more effective than a bourgeois court. I share the view that the client should be properly informed about the choice of a dispute settlement body or civil courts. I will pay particular attention to this information in the further implementation of the legislative proposal. The complaint officer also plays an important role in this. He can inform the client about the different routes and he can manage the expectations. I have also included a guarantee in the law itself. The healthcare provider is obliged to inform the client properly about the complaint and dispute procedure. This means that the inspection will monitor it and, if necessary, may take action. What do I do with the suggestions of the field on the quality requirements to be set for the complaint officer? I do not know exactly what suggestions are being made, but during the examination in the Lower House there was a detailed discussion on the quality requirements for the complaint officer. I will include basic requirements in the Implementing Decision to ensure the independence and expertise of the complaint officer. As far as the quality of content is concerned, I refer to the current professional standards and the terms of reference, as developed by the Association of Complaint Officers. I think it is important that healthcare providers have the space to organise complaints in such a way as to suit their own organisation and environment. They must put this into their own complaints system, which must be drawn up in accordance with client organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u162	That was my question. Let me just say something about the penultimate point. The explicit provision of those options for the patient, is that something to be included in the evaluation? Is the Minister prepared to see if that's possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u163	I think that's fine. It has been asked whether the arbitration body is not competent in the case of damages above €25,000. The groups of VVD and CDA have raised the competence limit to €25,000. Originally it was €10,000. That amount has been increased to €25,000. This means that the dispute authority must in any case be empowered to award up to €25,000 in damages. This is already being applied, for example, by the Disputes Committee on Independent Clinics, which has been using the limit of €25,000 for a long time. Suppliers and client organisations can agree to maintain an even higher maximum than €25,000. In this respect, we are also in agreement with the maximum ceiling of the canton court. That amount of €25,000 was not chosen at random. What does a binding opinion of the arbitration body mean? The members of the VVD refer in this respect to the title 15, book 7 BW, article 7.900. Furthermore, this results in a determination agreement. How can the execution of the judgment be enforced? The Disputes Committee shall determine the law applicable between the parties. The decision of the arbitration body shall be binding. Both parties submitted that assessment in advance. The healthcare provider by opening that procedure through the connection with a dispute settlement body and by submitting the complainant's case to the body. The principle is that both parties comply with that binding opinion. In any case, no appeal to the court is possible. However, a binding opinion is not a judgment of a court and therefore does not as such provide a direct basis for enforcement. Where one of the parties fails to comply with the binding opinion, the other party may bring the matter before the court. He generally takes the decision, but that's up to the judge. The judge will then issue a judgment stating that the judgment must be enforced. This will then result in an enforceable title. That allows a bailiff to enforce a verdict. Is it true that the arbitration body can impose a binding opinion, but not a fine or a warning? That's right. No penalty or warning may be imposed. The arbitration body shall not be the same as a supervisor who may impose sanctions or impose a fine or issue a warning. We have other bodies for this, such as the Health Inspectorate. The last note following the report states that a ruling may include the imposition of a ban and the giving of a declaration of rights. That has not been discussed before. What could be the outcome of the Disputes Committee? If the client decides to make use of the possibility offered by the healthcare provider to submit a dispute to the dispute authority, a so-called settlement agreement will be concluded between him and the healthcare provider. The Disputes Committee shall establish in its binding opinion on a dispute submitted the obligations of the parties to each other. The Disputes Committee may establish that the healthcare provider has acted correctly, in accordance with what could be expected of him under the law. The dispute body may also establish that the healthcare provider has infringed and has to comply with obligations towards the client in certain respects. The dispute authority may also establish that the healthcare provider is liable for damages. The client is then entitled, on the basis of that binding advice, to have the healthcare provider comply with that obligation. The wording "Explanation of Law" was used in the note on the occasion of the report as a so-called collective action of a client organisation. In that case, as in the context of a collective action, a claim for compensation for damages to the dispute body for those organisations has not been made possible by civil courts, the dispute body may determine in its binding opinion what the healthcare provider is required to do. As in a dispute between an individual client and the healthcare provider, this declaration of law establishes the legal relationship between the parties and, where appropriate, the care provider is held in relation to the client organisation. In practical terms, this could involve establishing that the healthcare provider has to do something, fulfil obligations or fail to do something, for example refraining from acting in breach of his obligations. The latter de facto amounts to the adoption of a ban. To give a little indication: a collective action can be important if, for example, a client organisation finds that clients without a family are treated worse than clients with a family, who can stand up for them. Then you can imagine something like this happening. Whether a collective action can take place in a case of sexual harassment, where insufficient action is taken by the healthcare provider. Then you can also imagine such a collective action taking place. In what ways can clients and caregivers influence the composition of the Disputes Committee dealing with a case? This has been secured in various ways, on a collective level in the law. As organisations of patients and healthcare providers, you must set up a dispute settlement body together. You'll agree a regulation together. Individually, as a party that is governed by a separate ministerial arrangement, you can avenge a member of the dispute body. In addition to the basic requirements of the scheme, the parties have the opportunity to agree on additional matters among themselves. I've been asked if I'd like to arrange for a lawyer to always be a member of the committee. Yes, I will include some basic requirements in a separate ministerial arrangement. It states that the Chairman of the Dispute Settlement Body must in any event be the master of the rights, even if there is no choice to join the current SGC. In practice, the chairman is almost always a judge. In the formulation of the Recognition Scheme, I agree with the existing V and J recognition system for dispute resolution and consumer matters. It will have to meet these basic requirements in order to obtain recognition under the law. I will forward the ministerial arrangement to the Chamber. I am prepared to bring the requirement of legal expertise in dispute resolution back into the legal review. The SP Group has made sure that people through the trees no longer see the forest. It asked to what extent the Wkkgz would create clarity or uncertainty in this respect. I am not so afraid that there will be a situation in which the healthcare providers as a professional organisation no longer see the forest through the trees, because part of the care they provide falls under one or the other law and the other part under the Wmo. I like it when we have a framework law, but you can do customization as an institution. The fact that not all institutions regulate the same thing is not so wrong in itself. Precisely because you implement different laws as an institution, you will have to look at the other institutions and develop common frameworks, taking into account the rules on quality, complaints and disputes. We see that the professional organisations, which may also offer their services from different work companies within different funding systems, are able to respond to the different rules that apply to them. By the way, the bill was made to bring the Youth Act under the Wkkgz. We have already talked about the Wmo.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u164	I have just tried to ask a question, but I have not made it clear. That is why I reworded the question. That question is about the GP, the first line. Let me give you an example. A patient has a complaint. The complaints officer involved cannot handle the complaint adequately. In this case, the organisation must respond to the patient, because the complaint officer works on behalf of the individual general practitioner. Doesn't that lead to a weird situation? Article 17 of the Wkkgz states: "The complainant shall receive, as soon as possible, but no later than six weeks after the complaint has been lodged, a written notice from the healthcare provider stating the reasons on which the examination of the complaint was based." In this case, the healthcare provider is the general practitioner himself. In this example, let us use a stand alone, which is not connected with anything, which will occur in practice. He will then use a complaint officer, which is what the law says, and he will actually do so, but he will not come out. This is an exceptional situation, but it is likely to occur in practice. I hope I've made myself clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u165	I do not think that a complaint officer, no matter how well he does his job, can always bring to a satisfactory solution all complaints, both about an institution and about a general practitioner. The Stichting Klachtensondering Huisartsenzorg Zuid-Nederland works with a regional complaint officer, who fulfils the intermediary function. It's going really well. Will the complaint officer always be able to solve everything? No. If the complaint officer cannot resolve it, the complainant may decide to go to another GP. He may also say that he does not find the reply to his complaint satisfactory and goes to the Disputes Committee or the judge. We'll always keep that. We also create this possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u166	The patient has a complaint. The complaint officer will always have to provide a feedback on that complaint to the healthcare organisation, in this case the individual GP. That's how it's gonna work in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u167	He's meddling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u168	Yeah, he's meddling. If the patient and the complaint officer do not come out, the patient can indeed choose another GP. The complaint officer, who is, as it were, the front line of the general practitioner, will then be able to reconcile that he did not get out with the patient of the general practitioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u169	The complaint officer does not belong to the general practitioner. The complaint officer isn't the patient's either. The complaint officer aims to play an intermediary role in finding a solution to the conflict. So he's not an advanced doctor's post.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u170	Mr Don, you have a second term, so you can only react very briefly now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u171	I quit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u172	My group needs a little clarification. We understand that the intention of the law is to organise a mediation process. The patient comes with a complaint, the mediator calls in the GP and asks the GP to respond to that complaint. Then it cannot be said that the patient does not come out with the mediator. The patient does not come out with the GP, despite the efforts of the mediator. So the patient can never say he can't get out with the mediator. No, the mediator is trying to get the two parties out together. If they do not come out, the patient will still have all the steps at his disposal to go to court or the Disputes Committee. This is the interpretation of my group. The question to the Minister is whether my group has understood this correctly. In that case, the general practitioner will not judge himself. I'd be afraid of that situation, too. No, the general practitioner is given the opportunity to reply and discuss. Does my group see that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u173	I do not seem to be able to put it very well myself, but it is exactly what I am saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u174	Madam Secretary, how much longer do you think you'll need?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u175	I've got a lot of questions, Mr. Chairman. I'm only with the third group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u176	Then everyone can prepare for it to be a late night.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u177	Next, a comment on coercive situations. Mr Don wonders whether we have better arranged for the clients covered by the Law mandatory ggz and the Law care and coercion. I very much agree with Mr Don that all clients deserve strong legal protection. However, I would point out that the protection provided by the legislation is in line with the differences in the position of the different clients. The Wkkgz's general complaint and dispute settlement provides adequate protection for complaints about voluntary care. The complaints regime and the possibility of appealing to the court governed by the Law on compulsory ggz and the Health and Force Act relate to complaints about decisions of the healthcare provider, taken without the client's consent, i.e. really under duress. Of course, that makes a big difference. This includes a more stringent legal protection regime, whereby the complaints committee can take binding decisions, after which the person concerned can appeal to the court. Mr Don's underlying question as to whether the various complaints procedures within the various health care laws do not lead to a fragmentation of the client's position, I answer in the negative. There is much more to customization that fits the situation in which the client is located. The case of the municipality of Zoetermeer has been discussed. It is asked whether the Secretary of State has become the conscience of the municipality because he has asked for investigations. Mr Don is right that the municipality is responsible for the Wmo. In the plenary session of the WMO bill in both chambers, the Secretary of State promised to keep ten fingers on the wrist. So he doesn't throw the execution of the Wmo over the fence, but he's willing to see what problems come up and see with field parties if those problems can be solved quickly. The intervention of the Secretary of State in this case must be considered in the light of this undertaking to the Court. A further comment on the relationship between the complaints committee and the complaint officer. Are healthcare providers allowed to choose for themselves? The healthcare provider should ensure that there is a complaint officer who advises the complainant free of charge upon request and assists in formulating his complaint and in finding a solution through mediation and investigation. The healthcare provider may, if he so wishes, refer the treatment of part of the complaints to a complaints committee. The law, further developed in the AMvBs, includes safeguards for the independent functioning of the complaints officer in his legal role. It is thus ensured that the complaint officer is guided by his duties and not by other interests when he or she is appointed by the healthcare provider himself. If a client considers that the complaint officer does not operate or is unable to operate independently, this may be a reason to lodge a specific complaint and, after the complaint has been resolved, to approach the dispute authority, since in that case it can be rightly stated that the healthcare provider's complaint regime does not comply with the legal requirements. The inspection shall monitor the quality of complaints officers. Asked what role I see for the possible ombud function in the care and whether that ombud function can be an alternative. Various researches and experiences of the Dutch National Health Information Point show that clients often no longer see the forest because of the trees. A compulsory complaint officer is therefore introduced in the Wkkgz. The client can either walk into this complaint officer, or he can call him or email him, after which the complaint officer can help him further. In addition, a client who doesn't know where to go with his complaint can request support from the Dutch National Contact Point. That was also established before that. The National Health Information Point can also monitor the procedures and say to an institution, for example, that you have exceeded a deadline, what is the situation now? In my opinion, adding an ombud function is clouding. If healthcare providers have a good reason for such a staff member and pronounce this together with the clients, it's okay. I think the LMZ is taking on that function in particular. Do I make any further formal demands? There are basic requirements in the laws and regulations governing the complaints system, for the independence and expertise of complaints officers, as well as for the standards of the profession. The inspection shall monitor the quality of the complaints system. That's a task for the inspection. The inspection shall monitor compliance with the Wkkgz and shall include those obligations in the regular monitoring. As a possible sanction in the event of non-compliance, the inspection may apply administrative coercion, give an indication or impose an order if it is not properly organised. Then I come to the development of quality policy in care in relation to the further development of the right of complaint in dispute resolution. This bill focuses on openness and learning about complaints and disputes. The point is that complaints and disputes and quality policy are not separate worlds, but that you learn from the complaints that come in about your care. This legislative proposal encourages healthcare providers to learn lessons from complaints and incidents. That'll make the care better. You can only actually go to a dispute committee if you are dissatisfied with the handling of the complaint; that headlines. You can follow your own judgment in the process. There is also an exception. Think of serious complaints that concern the health care provider indicted. I am referring to sexual violence as an example. In such a case, a mediator is not really at issue. Then it makes sense for you to skip that step and go straight to the inspection. You can then go to the Disputes Committee, but also to the inspection, so that the inspection can check if the supplier takes adequate measures. In addition, the client is free to refer directly to the arbitration body or to the court. But he'll take it with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u178	Sexual violence within a care relationship is just criminal law, isn't it? Don't such situations just lend themselves to a police report?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u179	Yeah, or IGZ. I can imagine that, if there are serious problems, there is no need for a mediation process. When such things happen, it's obvious that you go to the police and to the IGZ, because you don't want anyone to do that to others. I come to the networks and the chain care. If you provide care from multiple legal regimes in a district team, how is the client prevented from being sent from the locker to the wall? I've already indicated what does fall under the Wkkgz. Pgb care providers are also subject to the Wkkgz under the Health Insurance Act and the Wlz. That doesn't apply to the Wmo support. Juvenile aid's still on its way. The implementing decision of the Wkkgz states that in the case of chain care, the client should not be sent from the cabinet to the wall. That's called the "no wrong by" principle. I would say the 'no wrong door' principle, but apparently we have English terms for this. The draft implementing decision of the Wkggz actually contains provisions that should prevent this. I refer to Article 7.3 (1) and (2). In the case of a district team, agreements have been made on the progress of the cooperation and on what should be done with a client's complaint in the context of cooperation within the district team. Of course, there are a lot of things together: municipality, Zvw, nurses, the Wlz, insurers, all kinds of providers, youth aid providers and Wmo support. It is obvious that, in all cases, an informal and quick resolution of clients' complaints, as prescribed by the Wkkgz, is sought by focusing on a good and open conversation between care or support provider and client.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u180	If I understand correctly, the district team functions as an entity as a healthcare provider. The functional and hierarchical embedding is not the same. It looks at the actions of the individual, rather than at the integral offer that is then offered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u181	Yes, where it is also the case that one chooses this fast, low-threshold solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u182	So the health care provider is the district team? Does the Minister consider this to be a health care provider or an institution?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u183	Yeah, but if you have a complaint about a chain or a network, it shouldn't be that people say you complained about the wrong person, so you've come to the wrong place with me. No, your complaint's gonna end up okay. So it's about not putting the problem with the client, but that as caregivers you solve the problem yourself. So there are articles of law that say you have to transfer this as a provider. If the complaint concerns care provided by another healthcare provider in conjunction with other care, a combined treatment of complaints must be ensured. The handling of a complaint shall be carried out jointly or on behalf of the healthcare providers concerned, or in a manner that does justice to the substance of the relationship between care providers. So that's what it's really anchored in. Does the client's position crumble through complaints procedures in the different health care laws? I think I have answered that question adequately, as have the questions about the Wmo and chain network care. Are I prepared to have research done, for example by the Health and Society Council, on the implications of the shift towards more chain network care, on the distribution of roles and on the accessibility of care and quality legislation? In 2010, the Health & Care Council issued an opinion entitled Health 2.0, which addresses the themes mentioned by Mrs Nooren in her question: care organised around the client's demand and the development of healthcare standards that fit within that vision. Following a question you asked me earlier in a consultation, I asked in a discussion with the President of the Health and Society Council whether this would not be a nice subject. It's not just about long-term care that you'd rather give to home. You see more and more hospital care delivered at home. The caregiver plays an increasingly important role in this. Suppose the caregiver gets a very complicated device. Something goes wrong with it, because he got the wrong explanation or he didn't get the right explanation. Then who's liable? These are interesting issues, which are becoming increasingly topical. So I have already discussed this with the President of the Council. I will ask her to include this aspect explicitly, because it simply plays an important role in the development that we see happening. So I agree with you. The amount of €50 is the amount agreed by the parties themselves. Moreover, I have not received a signal that this is an obstacle for clients to bring a dispute, but I will take this cost aspect into account in the evaluation. I've been talking about the administrative burden. Then I come to the question of the obligation to be consulted, in relation to the administrative burden. If you hire someone, you'd like to hire someone who complements your team. I think it is only natural that you check with the last employer and that you investigate the background, because prevention is better than cure. We have therefore introduced an explanation of behaviour. It is only prescribed for Wlz care and inpatient mental health care. We did not simply choose to do so; we chose to do so because of the number of notifications in these sectors during the inspection. In these sectors we see the highest number of notifications. That's why they're so chosen. They were co-elected on the basis of research into theft in healthcare. They are also the most vulnerable patients. That is why we have opted for a vog in these areas, but not everywhere. It applies to new employees, so we are slowly but surely introducing it. Mrs Nooren also asked about the €25,000. It was €10,000 at first, but that amount has been increased by an amendment. Mrs Nooren also asked if I could monitor the progress of these claims every year. I'll do that, pointing out that I don't see more claims as bad, because it can be justified. Maybe you're not doing anything right now, when it would be right if you did something. We're gonna take a closer look at this. Should we not have a more coherent system to ensure that healthcare providers can count on? That is what the amendment was about. 58 of the SGP. Am I prepared to develop a digitally accessible register in which redundant workers are given the opportunity to rehabilitate themselves? In fact, we have a public register. That is very special, because many countries do not have a publicly accessible register in which you can see whether a supplier has received a reprimand or a suspension. We'll sign this in the BIG register. In it you can see if someone has received such a heavy note. That's also a very tough procedure through the D.J., not something you just do ice in one night. That's different from when someone got fired, because that could be a lot of things. I don't feel as much for a public blacklist, as the Protection of Personal Data Act already does. It can't be, but I wouldn't feel much for it either. You can, of course, ask the previous employer. You can also check with the inspection. He'll be able to find out why someone got fired. Is it because of dysfunction? Is it justified? The inspection may provide information on this matter. We also have the vog, which we have restricted as a result of an amendment by Mr van der Staaij, which now applies only to certain vulnerable groups and only where it has added value. We also have the BIG register with the reprimand and suspension. The alert register is an initiative of field parties themselves that you can consult. I therefore believe that we have properly regulated this, also because I do not want a public scandal in which caregivers are blamed while no thorough procedure has been preceded, for example in the case of a disciplinary judge. Is an applicant's consent necessary for such a waiver? The applicant must, indeed, agree to seek references. I am not going to change that either, but an applicant who does not agree with this and does not want to consult with him will not make a very good start in the application procedure with a new employer. Is it true that IGZ has no legal authority to monitor the health care provider after discharge for dysfunction? And can the inspection be given the authority to keep following the health care provider after a notification of dismissal? If the inspection itself has examined it and found that there is a risk, it can actually take action. Maybe someone's really good at his job, but he's got a couple of vulnerabilities that make him dysfunctional. For example, you can decide that someone is allowed to do so, but only if there is a third or if certain measures are taken. That's what the inspection can actually do. If there is criminal conduct, the inspection can, of course, report it. The inspection cannot prevent a health care professional from working at another institution, but may indicate to an institution that certain precautions are in place. What are the costs and benefits of the dog? I have indicated why the vog is required in the ggz within the Zvw and in the Wlz care: because the inspection there receives the most reports of cross-border behaviour. The recent progress report on dependency violence also shows that, among other things, theft is much more common in these two sectors than we like. In the spirit of the Van der Staaij amendment, only where it is really necessary have we chosen these sectors. A vog will be charged to the applicant and will cost about €50. Some employers also compensate for these costs. The file that Justis, part of V and J, consults for the purposes of the vog issued, shall not be accessible to unauthorised persons. I'm one of them. So I don't have any insight into that. How do I prevent healthcare professionals from reporting incidents because the prosecution may, even in exceptional circumstances, use information from the incident register to detect criminal offences? Would it not be wiser to delete this power? I have already indicated that we have more guarantees than we do now, without this law. Nor do I think it would be wise to remove the powers of the Public Prosecutor. This applies only to serious crimes, such as murder and manslaughter, only if the prosecution cannot obtain that information in any other way and only if the judge-supervisor has agreed to it. If all this is at stake, the public prosecutor must have access to it, because it will prevent perpetrators of serious criminal offences from getting away with it because they do report what they have done internally, but the lack of evidence in the medical file prevents them from being prosecuted. For example, the fact that the information is not included in the medical record but may be included in the registration can be demonstrated by opposing statements of witness. If this bill is accepted by this Chamber, I will pay a great deal of attention in the implementation process for healthcare professionals to the explanation that the safe reporting is really safe and that, compared to the current situation, protection of data is included under the quality law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u184	I know I'm still on my way, but since I asked a question about this point precisely, I'm just interrupting. The judge-supervisor's review appears to be regulated elsewhere, in an implementing provision. If I've seen it correctly, it's not in the law. Secondly, I wonder how realistic the assessment is that someone who commits a serious criminal offence will report it himself in the VIM register and then do nothing with it. Surely it's not a very logical situation for you to commit a serious criminal offence and to report it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u185	I don't know by heart whether it's in an execution clause or in the law. I really should come back to that in second term. A health care provider is required to report incidents. Of course, he may not. Then he's acting in violation of the law and it's nowhere. Then you can see the register, but you can't get past it. If he has done so and if it turns out that it is not all in integrity, but that there are very serious criminal offences at stake, you may find evidence for that in this report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u186	Perhaps the Minister could then comment on the discussion on the 'nemo tenetur' principle. The Minister said that this applies to the institution, but not to the individual care provider. However, if the healthcare provider is obliged to report it in the VIM register, it is true for the individual healthcare provider. Then I think we have a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u187	Let me get the answer to your question. Whether a health care professional rightly invokes the "nemo tenetur" principle in the exceptional case of criminal prosecution under the VIM is ultimately to be assessed by the Public Prosecutor and as a last resort to the judge. However, the prosecution may only obtain data from the VIM under strict legal conditions. Then it is only about facts where there is suspicion of intent or guilt. The suspicion of a criminal offence must be supported by facts and circumstances. The officer must determine whether an action is appropriate. To put it simply, as long as there is no very serious crime, such as a suspicion of murder or manslaughter, the report is safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u188	Thank you, but I don't think that's an answer to my question. I had the fundamental question of whether or not a health care professional who commits a serious criminal offence is obliged to report it. "Nemo tenetur" means, in my opinion, that you should not force someone to report it if it puts himself in legal trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u189	As a health care provider, you are obliged to report incidents to the inspection. If there's a criminal offence and you can find evidence in the file of the incident you reported, that should come together. As a result of bringing that together, you might be able to prove something. That goes through a rather difficult legal procedure, but reporting the incident has nothing to do with the health care provider who says: I did it wrong. You need to report the incident on behalf of the patient. You need to give a record to the patient, you need to notify the patient about it, and you need to report it to the inspection. That is, in order to protect the patient and for the ability to learn, that it will be better next time. Of course, it is possible that it contains data that, combined with other data, can prove something. Whether you're allowed to look into that is ultimately up to the district attorney. Previous draft texts said that sexual cross-border behavior is wider than violence in the care relationship and committing a sex crime under the Code of Criminal Law. It is not intended to limit the reporting obligation. That is not the case either. This is explained in detail in the explanatory memorandum to the second letter of amendment, which introduced the term "violence in the care relationship." For example, it says that violence in the care relationship should not be at all and is already cross-border for that reason. Would it not be reasonable to continue to follow the provision in the Civil Code that the interest group should first seek agreement with the defendant? This is better in line with the two-stage rocket which is also chosen for individual complaints. The bill contains a provision such as Article 3:305a BW. However, I take it for granted that before a dispute is brought before the dispute body, an interest group first makes an attempt to talk to a healthcare provider about the problem in order to see whether a friendly solution can be found. That is the normal care that is common in society. This is preferable, also in order to save the necessary costs and to reach a solution more quickly. Moreover, in many cases, collective action is likely to be launched after insufficient attention has been paid by the healthcare provider to complaints from individual complainants. These are essentially matters where the healthcare provider has had ample opportunity to resolve a problem. The rules of the arbitration body may, where appropriate, include incentives to promote the non-violence of collective actions, e.g. a judgment on costs. It has been asked whether it is possible for the First Chamber to have an insight into the concept of the AMvB Wkkgz before the vote on quality, so that the Chamber can involve it in the final judgment of the law. I would like to take care of this AMvB. I don't make it myself; that's what the sector does. I have agreed with the sector that until 1 January we have the time for the quality status. By the way, the Wkkgz is not necessary for that quality status. This can also be done under the current legislation. So it's not one-on-one. The quality status would also be possible without this law. Questions have been asked about the obligation to make sure that the health care provider's movements are monitored. Questions can be asked by the previous employers and the IGZ. I have already mentioned this in the previous speaker. How do the obligation to make payments and the obligation to notify relate to each other in the context of seriously dysfunctional care providers? An employer who dismisses a health care professional for serious dysfunction must report this to the inspection. An employer who wishes to assess an applicant may, by means of this obligation of notification, ask for information about the health care provider and the applicant. Only if the inspection itself has established that a health care provider is not functioning will it indicate this. A health care professional may expect that kind of care from the inspection. The SGP amendment introduced this question into the legislative proposal during the inspection. The majority of the House of Representatives felt that it had added value in addition to the obligation to be consulted. In addition, there is a public register indicating reprimands or suspensions. In the case of temporary agency workers, it is sufficient that, in addition to the agreement between the healthcare provider and the temporary agency, the healthcare provider provides a written instruction to the temporary agency workers. That written instruction should specify the quality requirements to be met, how complaints should be handled, how they should be reported, etc. Do I intend to invest in the informal route at the front? I fully agree with D66 that the shift towards a solution-oriented informal approach to complaints cannot be enforced by any law. That takes more than that. You really need to invest in that. We do not want to unnecessarily judge and escalate. Once the law is passed, I will go into the country to take caregivers into it. I will make sure that the skills of healthcare professionals are improved. I will make a request to the educational institutions that this movement be made. I come to the double cost of maintaining the Complaints Commission. The complaint officer is required, not the complaints committee. If you maintain the complaints committee, you will indeed have a complaint officer and a complaint committee. If the complaints officer is extremely good at mediation, the complaints committee will have less and less to do. The design of the six-week period is that it forces rapid contact. It doesn't have to be solved in six weeks, but it must have been picked up. The opinion may also be that further investigation is needed. If it's reported to take three months, you have to share it with the patient. I don't care about the claim culture. The Netherlands has no such culture. I have started my speech with a number of examples. We already have claims and complaints in up to €25,000, but this is not yet visible in different forms of care. When the Medical Treatment Agreement Act was dealt with, there was a great deal of fear of a claim culture. Fortunately, that fear is not materialized. In financial services, consumer affairs, telecoms and energy, it is both in one procedure. I am, of course, prepared to include the development of claims in the evaluation. What will be included in the ministerial settlement on the dispute settlement body? The basic requirements for the recognition of a dispute body come into a separate ministerial arrangement. In substance, I am in line with the system of recognition of consumer safety and justice. I am thinking of basic requirements such as independence and impartiality. In any case, the chairman must be a master of rights, usually a judge. I also mention requirements for a proper order of procedure, such as hearing and hearing, and the possibility for parties to avenge a member of the committee. Branch and patient organisations shall jointly adopt the rules, which shall allow for a more detailed interpretation, such as the organisation of a dispute settlement body with regional meetings or an own dispute settlement body for a sub-sector. Then I come to the legal support of clients. Who pays the costs? The use of a complaint officer is free of charge. It doesn't cost the client anything. The National Health Information Point is also accessible at no cost. This organization monitors the procedure, calls for deadlines not to be achieved and so on. The Disputes Committee assumes that no costs are incurred for a lawyer and legal assistance. That is the starting point of the Disputes Committee. Different arrangements can be made for the allocation of costs in the framework of the dispute settlement. It is customary to exempt the client from all costs if the complaint is rejected as unfounded. With existing dispute commissions, €50 is a common amount that clients have to pay if they engage the commission. As I have said, I will take into account how this is developing in the evaluation. It has been asked whether I believe that the provision will stand independently and impartially in the course of scrutiny in Strasbourg. The dispute body is not a court, but a way through which a complainant can obtain a binding decision in a dispute with the healthcare provider if he so wishes. The ECHR therefore does not apply to the arbitration body. However, the complainant may always refer his case to an independent judge if he wishes to have it assessed. So he can skip the Disputes Committee and walk straight to court. If the complainant chooses to refer it to the arbitration body and considers that it is not reasonable after obtaining the ruling, he may ask the court not to abide by the ruling. This can be done, for example, if he considers that the procedure has not been properly followed, including the use of independent assessors, or if the judgment is not properly justified. In this way, the judge will form an opinion on the quality of the proceedings, including independence. However, the ECHR does not require the dispute body to be independent and impartial. Then I come to the scope of "other care." For example, personal fitness trainers and preachers are included; where is the definition legally established? "Other care' does not include fitness trainers or preachers. Article 1 of the Wkkgz states that the concept only covers care in the sense of individual health care activities which are not part of Wlz or Zvw care. It is stipulated that those actions are also covered by the Wkkgz's concept of care if they are not carried out for a medical purpose, namely the promotion or monitoring of health. Thus, the concept does include interventions in or on the body with a cosmetic purpose. Acts which are not regarded as acts in the field of health care are not covered by the concept.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u190	Thank you for the explanation, but it is not quite clear to me why that limit is exactly there. It is stated that the specification of whether or not to promote or monitor health is not necessarily decisive. However, it is not just about the body, but also about the spirit. The question then is whether a mental caregiver should not be included in the concept. I am not concerned that this person should be brought under the law, but I am concerned about what the reasoning was that they were not covered by it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u191	We have very strictly named what is covered by Zvw, so that you can cut for the Zvw with a scissors what is and what is not covered by it. That is why I think Mr Ganzevoort's question is a real one. We use a much broader definition here, so it may not always be very precise to cut with scissors. The whole process in the Second and First Chambers and everything that has changed in the Chambers about this proposal is part of the history and application of the law. We have also discussed in detail the additions we are making in the House of Representatives. But I agree with Mr Ganzevoort that this is not always a very precise limit. Alternative care is also such a fluent and vague concept of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u192	If we do not agree on the question of when a law applies, we do have a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u193	The person providing the care must register in a health care register. The inspection shall supervise that profession and the profession shall be delimited accordingly. If you're a preacher, you don't get into the health records and you don't get under the inspection. So it's not random. However, there are actions that you may wonder if that is ggz-like concern that falls under the alternative circuit. Anyone who is registered in the healthcare register shall also be deemed by the inspection to comply with the Wkkgz.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u194	That's exactly my problem. The care provided by mental caregivers and pastors is sometimes very close to the ggz. It is not clear to me why we should say to them: you do not have to register, or you must register. The criteria laid down by the law on the definition of care are not clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u195	I find them much brighter with pastors than with beauty specialists. They are not included in the register as a health care provider, but they do work with laser devices and they inject all kinds of resources. This cosmetic industry will indeed come under the law. Preachers and fitness trainers obviously don't. A directive has been introduced into the law for what is covered by the concept. There are a number of handouts, such as the register and the fact that the actions must be medical. In alternative medicine, you always have a less defined area. Anyone who calls himself an alternative physician and performs cancer therapies does not comply with everything we have included in the quality law. However, he is subject to this law. The aim of this law is to prevent the legalisation and economicisation of the complaint system altogether, because it is precisely the case that it is committed to dialogue. I think I have explained that sufficiently in my response to previous questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u196	Do I see the last piece of paper?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u197	Yeah, I'm with the last spokesperson. That is the question of the PVV about the state of play of the modification of the WGBO. The modification of the WGBO is in the final phase. Then she must go to the Council of Ministers and to the Council of State. So it's gonna be a while before she gets sent to the Chamber. The delay was caused by complex cases, such as parental access rights in the files of, for example, deceased adult children. That kind of dilemma is in that law. About the retention periods has been stowed for a very long time. In the end, important choices had to be made about this. It's been delayed a little bit, but she'll be here soon. I'm getting to the feasibility. We need to limit the abuse of the right to complain. Asked what possibilities I see for that. There may be a group of complainants who complain a great deal and are never satisfied. The law allows providers to develop an approach for these specific multi-layers. For example, the dispute authority may request fees or declare cases inadmissible because of unreasonable conduct of proceedings. Moreover, such situations have never occurred before in the current dispute committees. Is there any consensus and clarity as to how the work should be organised? With what people and resources does this happen and can we do so with the current cuts? The Wkkgz provides that care must be organised in such a way as to ensure that it is provided with human and material resources that it reasonably leads to the provision of good care. "Good Care" is a concept in the Health Insurance Act that depends on the state of science and on the directives adopted. Money cannot be a reason not to provide certain care. Suppose you have a certain type of cancer, and that includes an extremely expensive medicine. If that medicine is in the package and there is a medical need for the medicine to be used, the patient should just get it. Money can't be an argument for not getting it. If you don't get it, you can go to a complaint board. By the way, I'd go straight to the inspection if I didn't. That's what I'd recommend to everyone, because that's a lot faster. I do not see any ambiguity in that regard. Mr Van Hattem asked how in practice to deal with a desire of spiritual support by, for example, an extremist imam or fill it out. Healthcare providers are not required to meet the extreme requirements of a patient but to meet reasonable requirements. As an example, he suggested someone who sits in a Thomas house demanding that there be a separate room for women and men. That's not a reasonable demand. You don't have to live up to that. If you are lying on your deathbed and want to receive spiritual care from a certain imam that you have designated and that is nearby and available, that is a reasonable requirement and a healthcare provider must comply with it. The effort is made to meet, as reasonably as possible, the requirements of life. Mr Van Hattem asked if there was specific attention in the AMvB to violence such as genital mutilation. He said: these people must be dealt with and punished. I can be very brief about that. Genital mutilation is a crime and therefore a criminal offence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u198	The text stated that the starting point was that conciliation would take place first, including in cases of honour vengeance. Is that still the starting point for a possibly imminent AMvB?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u199	Anything that's criminal, you shouldn't try to solve through mediation. If there are criminal offences involved, such as rape, genital mutilation or an estimate to kill someone, whatever, then you shouldn't go to a mediator. You'll have to go right into criminal justice. So we are in complete agreement on that. The complaint procedure is intended in case you think you have been treated unjustly and mediation can actually add something. So I do not think we have a difference of opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u200	In this case, I was talking about the code.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u201	There's a code of domestic violence. It indicates that domestic violence should not be kept silent if you notice it, but that you actually report it. That is precisely what is aimed at that there is action to put an end to it, rather than thinking that you do not need to talk about it in the context of the relationship of trust. Mr Van Hattem said a number of things about registration, ultra-registration and disclosure of all indicators. Let us be very clear: it only makes sense to register something if it actually says something about what is being delivered. No one at all benefits from registering and driving each other crazy with a hundred indicators that actually say nothing about how good care is. The caregiver doesn't see the point of it and goes crazy about everything he has to fill in. It doesn't help the patient, because it doesn't say anything about the quality of care. So let's not make each other crazy. It's about the things that say something about the quality of care. Let us concentrate on that. This gives us a real insight into what is being delivered. Mr Van Hattem gave an example of mortality rates. It is clear that an institution with very complex patients who are severely ill has a higher mortality rate than any regional hospital that does gallbladder operations in particular. That is why we agreed with each other that these figures should be corrected on care gravity, that there should be a case mix correction and that institutions should be able to explain or explain themselves: we are in an area where people are generally in the hospital at their last stage of life. I totally agree with those who say: registering to register gives false security. That is absolutely not what I am looking for with this bill. I hope I've answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u202	Mr. Ganzevoort would like to ask you a few more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u203	I must admit that I did not ask it very explicitly, but in the technical questions at the beginning of the AWBZ statement I pointed out that the reference in Article 3 to Article 1 in the text of the legislative proposal was no longer entirely correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u204	I shall return to these two things in the second term, as well as to the question of whether anything is laid down in the implementing provision or in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u205	Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group supports the intention of the law to improve the quality of care and complaint and dispute procedures where possible. There is also support for more customer-oriented care and accessible, fast procedures. We have raised a large number of concerns that we have heard from the field about the quality and the impact of the law. They dealt with regulatory pressure, the position of dispute committees, quality, short deadlines, consistency with other legislation, unclear definitions, unwanted effects, legalisation, claim culture, the limitation of learning ability and so on. Other groups have added important points to this. It was striking that almost all groups expressed similar concerns. The CDA Group has asked a large number of specific questions. I mentioned the themes. We thank the Minister for her response. A number of points have been clarified. On a number of points there appears to be a difference of assessment as to the drafting of the legislative proposal. This indicates not so much a difference between the CDA and the Minister, as Mr Bruijn suggests, but a difference between the field and the Minister. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the Council of State has indeed raised problems with the combination of complaints and claims and indeed talks about the risk of judicialisation. This is not only about the original bill but also about this bill. There are more points to mention. It's about a difference in vision. The Minister is optimistic and in fact says: the intention is good, so this bill will automatically improve. But that's the question. We have one specific question on the settlement of disputes. We had asked not to dedicate this exclusively to the SGC; all the dispute bodies should be able to do so. I think the Minister has confirmed that. I'd like to hear that again. I can hear her say that any dispute body would have to comply with the qualification system, as it is with the SGC. Does that put other initiatives for dispute committees at a disadvantage? How does the Minister view this? The members of the CDA Group have listened carefully to the Minister's replies. We know that she can speak well and explain the purpose of the law properly. We have been able to see that again. Over the next few days, we will consider whether the answers are sufficient to give the legislative proposal the benefit of the doubt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u206	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate colleagues Don and Bredenoord on their maiden speech. I have heard Mr Don sigh that he does not find it easy to be the Socialist Party spokesman at this time. I can imagine. Should it really be too much for him, he is very welcome at the VVD. At least he doesn't have to change the color of his tie, as you can see, but perhaps the color of his insights. I can strongly recommend to him the last two VVD election programmes as well as the next one. I'll be happy to go over them with him, too. My group would like to thank the Government, and in particular the Minister, for the very comprehensive answer to all the questions. Contrary to what Mrs Martens just suggested, my group does not think there is a contradiction between the field and the minister, but between parts of the field and the minister. From the field we have also received messages of support. There are gremia, including the Inspection, who would like this to be introduced quickly. There are those who think it is an unnecessary law, because they themselves have been working like this for a long time. And there are also gremia who have concerns or perhaps have had or have some by now, about matters such as legalization, costs and so on. We have asked questions about this to the Minister. It has given a very comprehensive and convincing response to this. I will therefore advise my group to vote in favour of this proposal. My final point concerns the scope of the Wkkgz in relation to the Wmo. I would like to say something about this, because there is now a discussion on that point. As far as my group understands, the cabinet has opted for decentralisation of parts of the AWBZ to municipalities and thus for a separation between heavy long-term care and other long-term care. As a layer of administration close to the citizen, municipalities are now in principle responsible for this. So the mindset is basically the same as in this bill: care is brought closer to the citizen himself. The legislator has therefore decided that the establishment of rules on quality, complaints and disputes in the field of WMO is the responsibility of the municipalities. That makes perfect sense. It would actually be very strange to get that out of there. In her reply, the Minister referred to the Van 't Wout amendment c.s. on the Wmo 2015. That is Amendment No 33.841 No. 83. First of all, it should be noted that, following the adoption of that amendment in the Lower House, that law was also adopted in this Chamber on 8 July 2014. A large majority voted in favour. Let us zoom in on the content of the amendment. That amendment was actually about the deletion of a provision on governance structure and management as well as on the allocation of responsibility for complaints to the providers by the municipalities. What were the objections in the Lower House, which apparently the Upper House has also agreed to? After all, the First Chamber did not bring that provision back in the legislative proposal, as far as it could. It was then considered undesirable to do so, and this Chamber followed it up by requiring each city council to impose by regulation requirements on the healthcare provider with regard to the handling of complaints and participation. So that is quite different from what we are dealing with in the Wkkgz. Today we are talking about a specific form of the complaints system, namely complaints officers and dispute committees. According to the applicants, this would entail a great deal of administrative burden for municipal authorities and healthcare providers, and apparently it is also followed here. There could also be an uneven playing field for providers when municipalities impose different or contradictory requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u207	Mr Bruijn repeatedly says that apparently this Chamber felt the same or that it agreed or followed. I did not read Mr Bruijn's speech entirely back then, but I think it goes too far. The fact that a law has been passed here in its final amended form does not necessarily mean that that amendment has also been approved by this Chamber as such. The whole package has been adopted here, but I do not think that Mr Bruijn can say that this Chamber has followed the reasoning of the House of Representatives, because that is something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u208	I note that the bill has been amended in the House of Representatives and that the amended bill has been adopted here. We agree on that. That was with broad support, at least in the Lower House. What was it about then? Firstly, it concerns the provision that each city council is obliged by regulation to impose requirements on the healthcare provider in respect of that scheme. That seems to me to be something quite different from the Wkkgz. Secondly, it concerns the provision that municipalities in the regulation at least determine the requirements for the governance structure and the management of providers. That seems to me to be something completely different from what we are discussing here today. That was considered undesirable, and that was accepted here. Subsequently, a provision on governance structure and management was deleted and the amendment provided for municipalities to be able to determine in the regulation what provision they consider to be necessary for a complaint system or a co-determination scheme. So that's settled now. I will advise my group to take a good look at this before we step over a number of things too quickly and do something that we really do not want to do. I think it is quite right for the Minister to say that she is going to wrist first in the House of Representatives or that there is any support for this; I interpret this just the same; the Minister should confirm or deny it in her term of office under the Wkkgz of the Wmo. If that is the case, then I assume that the Minister will first submit it, in whatever form, to the House of Representatives before returning here if it is a legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u209	Mr. Chairman. You see, I'm gray. I will honestly confess to this Chamber: I once, in the past, voted VVD once. You see it: wisdom comes with years. So, how old are you, Mr Bruijn?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u210	Older than you think, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u211	Do I hear another batch through this? Anyway, it is a special day today and if you are also invited to the VVD! I'll be brief. I've got a few small points. I welcome the Minister's comprehensive reply. I would just like to briefly touch on two points. This concerns in particular the support of the first-line professionals for the change that awaits them. I have just mentioned this in my interruption, but I cannot stress enough that this must be done in a constructive way and that the first-line professionals and the industry organisations are also involved. This also applies, of course, to client and patient organisations. There will also be a change in this direction, and there too the message will have to be announced. I think about organisations like the NPCF, Care Interest and Each one(in). Should this bill become law, I would ask the Minister to involve them and to draw their attention to the fact that something is going to change for patients and clients. We are pleased to say that my third point is that the Minister has promised to go back to the House of Representatives and to try to include the Wmo in the scope of the Quality, Complaints and Disputes Act. We're very happy about that. We would like to emphasise that joy once again in the form of a motion. The Chamber received that motion. Maybe the SP can get some support for that. If that's the case, we'll report in the course of this week. The SP will also discuss this week how it relates to this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u212	Did I hear you speak of a motion, Mr. Don?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u213	Yes, I understand the motion was signed by five people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u214	I have to read out that motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u215	I didn't know that. It's my first day, too. The President shall: Mr Don, Mr Ruers, Mr Meijer, Mr Wezel and Mr Köhler proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Quality, Complaints and Disputes Act (Wkkgz) is limited in scope to the areas of care of the Health Insurance Act (Zvw) and the Long-Term Care Act (Wlz);]] [[Considering that this includes clients under the Social Support Act (WMO) outside the domain of the Wkkgz and as a result the undesirable situation arises that supervision quality and complaint law are filled out differently for clients under the Wmo domain on the one hand and the Zvw and Wlz domain on the other;]] [[calls on the Government to include the Wmo within the scope of the Wkkgz Framework Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32402-P]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u216	May I ask Mr Don for a brief explanation? If I read it correctly, this motion does not ask the Minister to examine whether and how the Wkkgz could fall within the scope of the Wkkgz, whether there is sufficient support for it in the Lower House and how it could subsequently take shape, but to at least, in any case, include it within the scope of the Wkkgz Framework Act, regardless of the outcome of that pol process of the Minister, if I may call it so disrespectful, and the various ways in which it could be shaped. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u217	That's right. Research is a first step, but eventually you investigate something for a certain purpose. It would be nice if that goal were to be achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u218	Madam President. We thank the Minister for the answers we found convincing. When I was asked how many minutes I wanted to speak, we were at the stage where I had not yet heard the answers to my questions. I've heard that one by now. Our questions have been answered. We believe that this law really represents an important step forward. We support that step. We would like this law to go through. Then I come to the point raised in the motion. There is already a commitment from the Minister, namely to probe the situation in the Lower House. I think this is the most important thing. In our view, that would render the motion superfluous. I want to give that process priority, also because you don't know exactly how the feelings are there. Again, thank you. We think this is a persuasive action by the Minister. I will advise you to support this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u219	Mr. Chairman. I would first like to congratulate Mrs Bredenoord on her maiden speech. I think her input has shown that she is very concerned about this issue. There's probably gonna be some nice thought formations. I welcome the Minister's answers. I think she has shown convincingly that in the triangle of client, care provider and health insurance provider, in particular, reinforcement is needed on the client's side. This bill is an important contribution to this. Inside, the core is the conversation to solve problems. In my view, that is the most common sentence: to establish dialogue, to achieve good things, if care does not go as intended. The explanation of the Dutch Health Information Point also shows that clients who are sometimes weaker in their relationship with the healthcare provider will be supported in their way there. We also thank the Minister for her commitment to look at the full functioning of the law, as a kind of framework law, with an impact of the WMO. In the context of the relationship between the First and Second Chambers, I agree with Mr Kuiper that there should first be an exploration of how that lies with the Second Chamber and what was behind it. It should not now be a clear commitment for the Wmo, but we thank the Minister for her willingness to discuss this with the House of Representatives. It has also undertaken to consider how to bring the Youth Act under this law, so that it is clear to clients that there is one framework, by whomever the care is provided. At the same time, it creates a level playing field for everyone in healthcare. We also thank the Minister for her willingness to explore what chain care or network care means in the context of healthcare. It has also promised to bring this issue to the attention of the Health and Society Council. We welcome the Minister's commitment to discuss implementation with the field if this bill is adopted here. Like Mr Don, I think it is important not only to look on the side of the healthcare provider, but also on the side of clients to see how the grassroots can be supported to give it hands and feet. I hope that the Minister will also support the strengthening of the client side. We hope that the results of the evaluation study will show what we intend to do with this bill, namely to strengthen the position of the client in the broad system of care, which goes beyond the Health Insurance Act and the Wlz. I will advise my group to vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u220	Mr. Chairman. I can also keep my second term short. I agree with the words of appreciation to the Minister. The answer was decisive, businesslike and particularly substantive. Thank you for that. We were already in a positive position in relation to this bill. The Minister's response has certainly contributed positively to this. I am very curious to see what the consultation mentioned by the Minister is about, to see how the House of Representatives is about bringing the Wmo under the scope of the Wkkgz. We'd like to wait and see where this round leads. I am also grateful for the reassuring response when it comes to reporting obligations on sexual misconduct. There is no limitation, as I thought before. For the rest, all my questions have been answered very well, so I will leave it at that and I recommend that my group vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u221	Mr. Chairman. I started my group's input today with concerns about but also support for this bill. Support focused mainly on the quality aspect of the law, on the intention to improve complaints and dispute paths, also in view of the poor evaluations, and to strengthen the patient's position and thus contribute to patient rights and to a more equal relationship between aid provider and patient. These positive points, of course, remain. In addition, on behalf of my group, I have also expressed a number of concerns, which are mainly related to legalisation, increased claim culture and the question of why there is no longer investment in de-escalation, in the front section. I would like to thank the Minister for her very comprehensive answers and specifically for the following two commitments. The Minister has addressed in detail our demand to invest in this informal route, the front route, in order to contribute to the cultural change needed to actually de-escalate, to get that good conversation going and to develop best practices in this area. I would also like to thank the Minister for the commitment to monitor annually the figures on whether or not complaints and claims increase. I hope, therefore, that the Minister will comment on the training aspect that I have just mentioned and on the actual learning of those best practices. I have one more question in response to the Minister's reply. My group supports the extension of the Wkkgz to what is called the other healthcare providers. I believe that the Minister mentioned a number of 40,000. That's a lot of them. They all come under the supervision of the IGZ. Could IGZ have all this? If not, are additional measures needed to check whether those other healthcare providers indeed meet that criterion of non-damage? My group has expressed concerns and hesitations about the legalisation and the culture of claims. The Minister has given a very comprehensive answer. After the two commitments on monitoring and investing in the informal process, our hesitation has not been completely removed, but it has become much less. At least I have the feeling that the finger will be held on the wrist. As far as the motion is concerned, my group is sufficiently satisfied with the Minister's undertaking that she will go to the House of Representatives on the opinion on enlargement to the Wmo. I'm rounding up. I will advise my group to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u222	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the many questions. You can actually respond to two levels and look at the questions, a technical level and a political weighting level. As far as the political weighting is concerned, I have been taken into account in many respects by the Minister's speech. We already shared the intentions. Let us share the hope that it will be good and not wrong, even though I am not convinced in all respects that there are not perverse incentives after all. As far as the technical aspects are concerned, I am honestly not convinced. A few small points will be answered, but I am particularly concerned about the two main points I mentioned. What exactly is the scope of the law, how is "other care" defined and is there even a clear definition at all? Apparently, it's obvious to the Minister, but it's not for me. As far as I am concerned, the wordings are inadequate for a careful definition. To be honest, I think that is an important point in a law. First of all, you ask what a law is and what it isn't about. If that's not obvious, I don't know exactly what we're talking about and how we're dealing with it. I am glad that the clergy do not fall under the law, but frankly I think that some clergy do more harm than beauty specialists, at least in certain treatments. So I'd like to be clear about what it's all about. In addition, I am absolutely not convinced of the discussion on nemo tenetur. To what extent are you obliged to report anything that could get yourself into trouble? The Minister has also given an extensive reasoning on this subject, which I find to be technically unconvincing. In general, I can say that the intentions of this law seem good to me. I don't always think the wording is convincing, but sometimes that's what you have to do if you don't get out of it with each other. Yeah, you could call in a dispute committee, but that might go a little too far in this room. There's a motion. We need to think about what we're doing with that. We can always say that next week. In general, I would rather hear a promise from the Minister than a statement from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u223	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive and very enlightening reply. Yesterday, Patient Federation NPCF brought out the message that almost half of the people have had to deal with a medical error. For all these people, it is an important support that this law can contribute to their position. As PVV we are really convinced of that. At the same time, it is clear that there are limits to reasonable demands. I've just noticed that. I will discuss the motion with our group. I can give our group a positive opinion on this bill. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u224	We've arrived at the Minister's second term. She's not gonna be able to answer right away. That is why I shall suspend the sitting briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u225	I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u226	Mr. Chairman. As a result of the first deadline, I had a number of answers to give. In the law, the word AWBZ still exists while it has long been replaced. It has been said that there is nowhere to be found or that is being changed. Article 12.1.16 of the Long-Term Care Act provides for an adaptation of the provisions of this Act. The reference in Article 3 to paragraph (f) of Article 1 (1) is indeed incorrect. That will be modified in the VWS Sweeping Act. Does the law, the AMvB or the implementing regulation state that the prosecution can access data from the VIM in the event of serious criminal offences? The law provides for protection against the use of data in criminal proceedings. Where data cannot reasonably be obtained otherwise, the Office may use VIM data for criminal evidence. There are strict conditions before the D.A. can obtain data from the VM. They're in a clue to the D.A.'s office. Among other things, the condition is that the judge-supervisor must agree to an action and that it must be serious offences, murder or manslaughter. Where does the judge's commissioner have to agree to the prosecution's request for information from the VIM? This is stated in the "Investigation of facts/criminal investigation and prosecution in medical matters." I would like to thank Members for their second term. I hope that in the first term I indicated that I am not in a position to make things better if the intention is right. I don't think that's the way things should be arranged. I think this is of a different order: if we take care of it better, it's better. It was asked whether disputes could be settled for all dispute bodies. That's right. There is no obligation to join the national dispute settlement body. We're gonna let that go. So you can set up your own arbitration body, but it has to meet the recognition requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u227	So they have to meet the recognition requirements as they are now with the SGC?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u228	Yes, they must also meet the recognition requirements. V and J have a set of requirements and they all have to meet them, including any new ones that may need to be set up. Mr Bruijn quoted something that was deleted. That's right. This was about requirements regarding governance structure and business formation. This concerned paragraph d. Paragraph (e) contained requirements for the handling of client complaints regarding the provider's behaviour towards a client, and for the participation of clients in intended decisions by the provider. So that is also about the complaints. Paragraph (f) set out the requirements for reporting emergencies and violence in the provision of a facility. Those are, in my opinion, the three that have been deleted. I have been asked to take constructive action to support the first-line professionals, as well as the involvement of industry organisations and patient and consumer organisations. That's what I'm telling you. I think it's important that we do that, that we help where we can and that we set up hand-outs if we need to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u229	I would like to come back to the previous point. I mentioned that. I agree with the Minister that this was in it and was removed from it. I read that the objections raised by the proposers were that the fact that it was there would lead to each municipality taking care of it in its own way. So that's different from what we're doing with the Wkkgz right now. I have concluded that I am pleased that the Minister will first look again in the Lower House at how the Wkkgz could fall within the scope of the Wkkgz without running into this kind of thing and then she will look again at how that could be designed. I am also pleased that the Minister then decides whether or not she will shape it, contrary to what is stated in the motion before us, and that she may first refer it to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u230	I'm really attached to probeing that, too. Of course, I'm a little stuck in the door between two Rooms. Let's be very honest about that. That's always a position that's not very pleasant. I would therefore like to look at how we proceed with this in the light of the opinion of the House of Representatives. That is also my reaction to the motion. Mrs Bredenoord asked me to include the training pathway and the learning of best practice in the annual monitoring. That's what I'm telling you. So we'll take this with us in the monitoring. It has been asked whether the inspection will not need more manpower or resources if 40,000 healthcare providers are added. What really helps the inspection is the register. We have been talking to the inspection and she says: "We have wasted so much time figuring out where an institution actually is; we often cannot find institutions and they are unknown to us. This kind of job will help greatly if we simply have a register in which everyone in the Trade Register is required to be registered." The IGZ can then perform checks based on the data contained therein. That makes her work so much easier. On the other hand, she gets a huge amount of suppliers. The inspection does the work risk-driven. So she'll check, but she doesn't visit 40,000 providers. However, the IGZ has a little support: if there are abuses, this law helps to actually act. So I think we can do it with the capacity that we now have. In fact, the inspection is so incredibly extensive that we have to be careful that an extension can still be kept up to date by an organisation. Then I'll get to the scope. I'm gonna try one more time. It is about actions in the field of individual health care. That is the starting point. That's how the BIG Act was built. The BIG Act has gradually, also through case law, defined this more and more clearly. Here it's the same as in the Law BIG. These are actions in the field of individual health care. Only the target is different. So that's why the other concern has been added. That is not quite possible with scissors, but just as in the BIG Act, case law will make it increasingly sharper here too. As for not having to cooperate in your own conviction: there are also situations where it is not so much a matter of being the VIM of your own doctor, but that GP A has a VIM and GP B also, while the sentence of GP A is in the VIM of GP B. So it has not been said by definition that it must be your own incident report in order to really benefit from involving that report in a case. I think I answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u231	May I ask one more question for clarification? This concerns the definition of good care. Good care is often a professional standard, or a quality standard. The legislative proposal extends this to reflect the real needs of the patient or client. Do I understand well from the Minister's answer in the first term that ultimately a definition of the Quality Institute is being worked on, that this also does not explicitly address the real need of the patient, which is a free subjective element, and that, in due course, the definition of the Quality Institute or the Dutch Health Institute will apply to the whole healthcare sector? Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u232	Slowly but surely you will see that where directives have now often been drawn up by scientific associations alone, we have now begun to see that patients can also have an opinion on what is good care. It is not only scientific associations that can do that. For example, pain management and its impact on the patient may be more or greater than the scientific association determines. Mrs Martens is therefore right that, with the Quality Institute, we are slowly but surely replacing all these guidelines and protocols with tripartite quality indicators.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u233	Clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-eerstekamer-8.u234	Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I propose that we vote next Tuesday on this bill and on the motion.
