ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice, as well as the people in the public gallery. I give the floor to the first speaker. That is Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV Group. For those who listen: today we are only doing the first term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. Terror, that's what today is about. Bomb attacks. Suicide attacks. Kill as many people as possible with one action. Deadly efficiency. We see it in Iraq, Syria and Libya, but we also saw it in New York, Madrid, London, Brussels, Amsterdam, Paris and recently in Copenhagen. If you are preparing terrorist attacks and helping to prepare them, you are looking to undermine the Dutch interest and overthrow our democracy and our rule of law. So that means you don't belong here. This cabinet speaks almost euphorically to the outside world and in press releases about the bill we are discussing today, which is also set out in the Integrated Approach Jihadism Action Programme and which has been announced as a measure under the heading 'risk reduction'. But there is no action or approach with this integrated approach. With this bill, the cabinet hopes to deprive the Netherlands of its status in cases where there is assistance in committing or preparing terrorist activities, as technically laid down in Article 134a of the Code of Criminal Law. The aim of the bill is to deprive terrorists and jihad fighters of the Netherlands. Terrorists, jihadists don't care if their Dutch nationality is taken away from them. In fact, we all know the images of jihadists who were filmed in Syria with a burnt Dutch passport in their hand. Those terrorists don't even want Dutch nationality anymore. Moreover, the answers to the questions raised by the PVV in this legislative proposal before this examination are sufficient. The PVV asked how many persons of dual nationality the government ultimately expects to withdraw the passport or nationality. The Minister's answer was: it will be a few things per year at most. Furthermore, he wrote: the importance of the bill lies in the fact that a person convicted of a terrorist offence may be subject to national law consequences. In short, with this bill no more than a few crumbs are brought in. Of only a few fratjihadis who found their way to the caliphate of the Islamic State, the passport is eventually withdrawn. These are figures who are already not very fond of Dutch values and standards, let alone Dutch nationality and identity. In practice, this bill would mean that types such as Omar H., recently convicted under Article 134a of the Code of Criminal Procedure for preparatory acts for a terrorist offence, could be deprived of the passport. That's good. But he left long and wide before the security forces could stop him. In fact, this jihadist wasn't even in possession of a passport anymore. Nevertheless, he managed to travel to Syria via the system of those terrible open borders and with an identity card in his pocket, via Turkey. As far as PVV is concerned, this bill is nothing but symbolic politics. Instead of letting jihadis go and making sure that they no longer enter the Netherlands by closing the borders, the government leaves the locks wide open and thereby knowingly endangers the safety of ordinary Dutch people. This minister ensures that you have to look over your shoulder constantly in crowded places in the Netherlands. Doing errands, travelling with the O.V. or for your profession guarding a monument: these are normal activities, but they have become more dangerous than ever. On 22 December last year, the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security said: "Returned jihad fighters are not the only ones who are thought to be able to attack the Netherlands by terrorist fighters. More and more often, the threat also comes from young radical Muslims who were stopped when they wanted to travel to the battle area in Iraq and Syria." I'll refresh the memory of the Chamber and the Minister. Recent attacks are still on the retina: one in America, two in Canada and one in Australia. They were indeed committed by Muslims who were stopped instead of letting them go. That's obvious. The Public Prosecutor is already barely able to condemn suspects under Article 134a and to prove preparations for terrorist activities. Think of the court ruling recently acquittal of two Syrians. And if the evidence does succeed, like in the case of the escaped terrorist Omar H., which I was just talking about, there's only gonna be a year and a half in prison. Of these, only two thirds, that is, one year, need to be served. Those terrorists are laughing at the Netherlands for these weak sentences. The top priority of this cabinet should be to take action to prevent attacks. The PVV has been clear about this from the beginning. We need to take the following measures. One: we have to stop the asylum flow. Two: the boundaries must be closed. Three: we need to introduce border controls. Four, important: jihadists who want to leave the country should not be stopped cramped. We must let them go and never let them set foot on Dutch soil again. That's what needs to be done. But it's here that the government is completely failing. In addition, the bill is a stripped-up version of the original. That's too bad. In the draft proposal that went into consultation, article 15 of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap included a new loss ground. A Dutchman who was irrevocably convicted on the basis of Article 140a of the Code of Criminal Law, on participation in a terrorist organisation, would automatically lose Dutch citizenship. This has been taken out because this is contrary to a judgment of the European Court of Justice...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The answer to the questions put by the PVV in the written input shows in no way that the government intends to change anything about this, because of fear of conflicting with this ruling by the European Court of Justice. In fact, the Minister is literally replying that he considers the legal vulnerability of the loss of nationality to be decisive. He considers the legal vulnerability of the loss of nationality to be decisive. The Minister of Security...... and Justice therefore considers the legal vulnerability of jihadists to be more important than the physical safety of Dutch citizens. And why? Because he bows to European treaties, treaties from the same Europe that has provided us with open borders and promotes mass immigration. I repeat it just to ensure that it stays better, even with the people who listen and watch at home: this minister considers the legal vulnerability of jihadists to be more important than the physical safety of Dutch people. Otherwise, more flatter, said: the rights of the terrorist, the jihadist, outweigh the security of the ordinary, hardworking Dutch. In this respect, we have great admiration for the British, who are doing other things in the area of terrorism legislation. Firstly, they have defined much more broadly the criterion on which a passport can be withdrawn. This is reflected in the answers to the questions; I am not going to go into that now. Secondly, the British are not parties to the European Convention on Nationality, so that they are not bound by the judgments to which the Netherlands is bound in their policies either. If you make legislation, do it right and not half-baked. So far, of course, I have been critical, but let it be said that the PVV will not vote against this bill. We're not against it, but in our eyes, it's nothing more than a Band-Aid on an arterial hemorrhage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you. With that last remark, you managed to prevent an interruption by Mr Oskam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr. Chairman. The bill we are discussing this afternoon has been in the process of being drafted for a long time and therefore logically follows first from the government's jihadism action plan. In May 2013, VVD, CDA and ChristenUnie issued a motion calling on the government to deny nationality to persons convicted of participating in a terrorist organisation. The motion was passed, but then it remained silent for a long time. The CDA Group has already asked why it has taken so long in the written preparation of this bill. The Minister said that it was being prepared further, but that is, of course, a bit of bullshit. Following the threat of jihadism, which also became more apparent in the Netherlands last summer than before, the government has put together the aforementioned action plan. The present bill has been pulled from under a layer of dust and ultimately we are discussing this bill in the Chamber today. We are positively critical of this bill. The CDA Group supports the bill because it clearly indicates that the rights and obligations of Dutch citizenship have clear limits. The commission and/or preparation of terrorist offences runs counter to all the values for which the Dutch rule of law stands. As far as the CDA Group is concerned, a person who has been irrevocably convicted of committing such crimes should no longer rightly call himself a Dutch citizen and no longer claim the rights attached to it. It is probably only a few cases per year, as the Minister has indicated. As far as the CDA Group is concerned, this does not constitute any obstacle to the implementation of this law. The CDA Group asks the Minister whether he shares the hope that this form of administrative repression in response to a criminal conviction has a preventive effect on the Dutch's intentions to join terrorist organisations such as the Islamic State. The status of a Dutch citizen is incompatible with participation, or attempts to do so, in the terror of IS. Criminal law is an important tool for the government to set and enforce standards. However, criminal law does not provide a 100% guarantee against e.g. exiting and returning jihadgoers. Criminal law must be able to be used quickly and creatively against people who undermine the rule of law, especially at this time. This means that the legal instruments must be in order. The recent trial in Arnhem showed that there are legally complex blockades to condemn alleged Syrians, at least at first instance. The CDA Group wants to know from the Minister about the state of play regarding the ban on jihad travel to areas such as Syria and Iraq. The Minister would investigate this in connection with the motion of Mr VVD and Mr CDA, Mr Dijkhoff and myself. Does the Minister now recognise the added value of such an exit ban? Is he willing to work on this soon? In the note on the report, the Minister states that he does not consider it useful to give more examples of cases which could lead to the loss of Dutch citizenship. I think that's a missed opportunity. It is quite complex and legal topicality is great. There is a need for clear frameworks from the legislator. I believe that the Minister has a chance to give direction to his legislation. The CDA Group therefore asks the Minister, precisely in view of the legal history, to present today more examples that he believes fall within the scope of Article 134a of the Code of Criminal Law. Then I'll come to the bill myself. It is a performance of the aforementioned motion, but with a slightly milder tone and scope. I reviewed the operative part of the motion: "Ask the government to consult a bill before 1 September 2013 to amend, in any case, Article 15 of the Dutch Federation Act to ensure that participation in a terrorist organisation leads to loss of Dutch nationality." The Minister fears that, because of European case law, automatic loss of Dutch citizenship will not last in court. Of course, it's a good look, but I'd be happy to leave that assessment on the Minister's behalf. Consequently, the Minister did not include the possibility of loss of rights in this law. There will therefore always have to be a balance of interests under Article 14 of the Reichswet. The CDA Group is concerned that, according to the motion, it must be ensured that, if there is evidence of participation in a terrorist organisation, the Dutch Federation will be deprived of it. The CDA Group would like to know from the Minister the limits of the balance of interest made in this context by the Minister. The note on the basis of the report states that, because of very pressing humanitarian circumstances, it is possible that Dutch nationality will not be taken away. Can the Minister guarantee that this is the only blockade? What specific consideration should be given to this exception to urgent humanitarian circumstances?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u5	I wonder whether the CDA Group is actually convinced of the reasoning that we should abandon the automatic abolition of Dutch citizenship in a number of cases. It did come into the Code of Conduct because of an amendment by the CDA in the past, which we supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u6	We are now living in 2015. There's got to be surgery soon. It's important that the judge looks at it, but if it can't, it should be possible by law, so I don't see that problem that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u7	Can't speed be a point? If Hollanderschap has automatically lapsed when entering foreign military service, or if you would extend it in accordance with the Dijkhoff motion by supporting a terrorist organization such as ISIS, then you would no longer have to wait until an irrevocable course of justice has been followed, before the Netherlandserschap can actually be taken away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u8	I think this is asking about the familiar road. We supported that motion, so we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u9	In conclusion: the CDA does not accept leaving out or stopping the automatic deletion of Dutch citizenship in a number of situations?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u10	The CDA wants to look at all the possibilities we can use to prevent exit or participation. I am now discussing this in consultation with the Minister and I am asking what the possibilities are. The Minister has indicated that he sees international problems there. I would like to clarify this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u11	Actually, it's just a matter of fact. Mr Oskam makes it very clear that he is in favour of maintaining or even extending the possibilities for the Dutch to be automatically abolished. In his remarks, I can also tell him that he says: look up the border as much as possible, even if it is not allowed under the European Treaties. I have heard the PVV quite clearly distance itself from this, but not the CDA Group so far. Is he actually saying: do it in practice but in such a way that it means that it automatically means that you lose the Dutchmanship? Is that the assignment he's giving the minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u12	No, that's not the assignment I'm giving the Minister. I think it is good to look up the boundaries, but we will always have to operate within the sphere of the treaties and the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u13	Mr. Oskam says he thinks he's watching the coffee, because we don't know how the judge will ultimately judge it. Let us assume that the Minister is right and that he does not want to run the risk of legal vulnerability. Does the CDA Group absolutely respect the treaty which states that it cannot be done in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u14	The CDA will never ignore that treaty, but it may be that we are talking to each other and that we come to the conclusion that we need to do something about it, but that is far too far ahead. First of all, I want to know how the Minister comes to the conclusion that it should be left out of the law, because his assessment is that it is a problem for Europe and that the judge will not go along with it. I would first like to know how that develops, but we must, above all, continue to discuss this issue. I am not saying that we are going to cancel these treaties, but we are going to see how we can manage these matters in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u15	Very briefly, finally. This means that in future the CDA could call into question the point which, according to the Treaty, should be taken away from nationality?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u16	I'm not ruling that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u17	There is still a need for greater clarity. The CDA Group has supported a motion, which literally states: "to ensure that participation in a terrorist organisation leads to loss of Dutch nationality." I myself talked about the legal vulnerability. Does Mr Oskam agree with the Minister on this point on behalf of the CDA Group? It's sticking now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u18	It's not gonna stick. The approach is very clear. We must do everything we can to make it as difficult as possible for people who are travelling or participating in a terrorist organisation, but we must abide by the law. If the law is not enough, we as legislators must consider what we can do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u19	Yeah, okay, we need to do as much about it as we can. These are a lot of words not to say so much or just to say that Mr Oskam supports the Minister in this. The legal vulnerability of the jihadists is more important to the CDA group than the safety of the Dutch. Let Mr Oskam say that honestly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u20	No, I'm not saying that, and I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u21	Then I am very curious to see what the CDA Group will do with that amendment, because that will fix the legislative proposal as it was before the consultation. I am very curious to see what the CDA Group will do. Then it will be clear what the CDA Group really wants and what Mr Oskam's words are worth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u22	I'm on it, Mr. Chairman. More answers from the note on the report raise questions from the CDA Group, first of all on the problem of the returned jihadists. The Minister states that nine returners have been apprehended, four of whom have been detained. Why not the other five? And what is the background to the approximate difference in these returned jihad warriors? Then the returners in detention. How can they be prevented from infecting other prisoners with their enthusiasm for the terrorist violence of IS? Last week, Harry Versteeg, president of the Association of Prison Directors, pointed out that prisons still have insufficient control over radicalisation within the prison system. What is the government's view on this and how is it going to better support the prisons? It is also worrying that the Minister indicates that his announced deradicalisation programme has not yet been launched. Why is this not the case yet? The CDA Group is told by more and more municipalities that they have no idea how to put their hands and feet on it. That cannot be the case. The government must help municipalities in this respect. What's the status? What exactly does this program look like? And are the municipalities currently sufficiently supported to give concrete form to deradicalisation? Then there is the application of the European Convention on Nationality (EVN). The removal of nationality shall not result in any Statelessness unless the nationality is acquired by fraud or fraud. The EVN gives rise to tension with regard to persons possessing only Dutch nationality and who have been irrevocably convicted of committing or preparing terrorist offences. This is acknowledged by the Minister in the note following the report. Through the Council of Europe, it would take stock of how other countries that have signed the ECN deal with this. The CDA Group would like to hear the results of that consultation in the Council of Europe. In conclusion, I would like to comment on the transitional right in the letter of amendment. That change is a clever invention by the Minister to be able to apply this bill to the current Syrians and potential returners. The CDA Group strongly supports this change. It merely wonders whether the Minister can indicate whether this arrangement has been proposed earlier with regard to the criminal law provisions and is therefore likely to stand up in court.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u23	You're done, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u24	Yeah, I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u25	I shall then give the floor to Mr van der Steur for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u26	I heard Mr Oskam say something about the European Convention on Nationality. The result of that treaty is that there are two skewed situations. The first is that, as Mr Oskam says, people of a single nationality who cannot lose because otherwise they will become stateless, while they may have been convicted of a very serious terrorist offence. There's a second unreasonableness. If you enlist in an ordinary foreign army, an army of another state, you automatically lose your Dutch identity, even if you could become stateless. The entry into service of a foreign army is so serious that it is allowed to do so under the Treaty. But it doesn't apply to a terrorist organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u27	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u28	Does Mr Oskam not agree that more activities should be developed? So should we not just wait until the Council of Europe finds it, but also consider whether we can do something to remove this inequality, that unreasonableness from this situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u29	Mr. Van der Steur hits the nail on the head. That, of course, is where the problem lies. Everyone thinks so. If someone is Dutch with only Dutch nationality, he goes to fight with ISIS, he kills people, he comes back and is convicted, you want to take away his Dutch identity as well. That's the dilemma. I am not saying that it cannot be done, because there may also be examples and case law in Europe that it can be done. But we're gonna have to find solutions together. I would be happy to cooperate in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u30	I am particularly asking because we were familiar with the situation in our past. When the Spanish Civil War took place, long ago, in 1936...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u31	...that was way before my time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u32	For mine too, and of course far ahead of the President's time; we all understand that. But then there was the exact same situation. We didn't have a regular army, but we still had the opportunity to take away the Dutchmanship. That's what happened. In itself, we do know that system. The only question is what we in Europe think is the result of joining such a terrorist organisation. I am very pleased that the CDA also thinks that it should be looked at carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u33	I call Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u34	I was primarily triggered by the fact that Mr Oskam spoke at the beginning of his speech about 'basic Western values'. Is the principle of equality also a fundamental Western value according to the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u35	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u36	That's what I thought; I'm glad to hear that. I also see from Mr Oskam's speech that he is prepared to support the amendment of the law. Does he not think that the principle of equality is at stake when a distinction is made between people with a single nationality and people with a double nationality?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u37	That is the point I made myself and Mr Van der Steur made. That is the dilemma in these matters. We want people who commit and are convicted of acts of terrorism to no longer have the right to all the facilities, rights and obligations that the Netherlands has. Then it is hard to take it away from a Dutchman who also has a different nationality and not from someone who is only Dutch. For the CDA, however, it does not go so far as to say that someone has a dual nationality, so we do nothing. I think we should take steps together to prevent or at least make it as difficult as possible for people to engage in this type of activity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u38	I think that's where the essence lies. The CDA indicates that it wants to take that measure for people of dual nationality because something needs to be done, while at the same time indicating that there is a dilemma. Shouldn't it be that, in the context of the care of the legislative process, we look together at how we can remove all the dilemmas and think through what we are doing together, before we support such a change in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u39	I think I've made myself clear. Our standpoint is clear. We don't want it. Wherever you can, you have to act, and if you can't, it stops. Then I agree with Mr Van der Steur that we should start thinking about how we can make that possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u40	There is a dilemma about the difference between people with two passports and people with one passport. Do I hear the CDA say that it wants to get rid of the human rights principle, the fundamental right that you can't be stateless? For example, the Netherlands is a party to the United Nations Convention against Statelessness. Is that the way in which the CDA wants to think about creating stateless people, more than there are already unfortunately?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u41	I have just said in reply to Mrs Gesthuizen's question that I am not ruling anything out. So we really need to look at it. Of course, people have a right to citizenship, but you have to earn it and maintain it. And that's where the shoe wrings. You are Dutch and then you should act like a Dutchman. If people take advantage of the fact that the Dutchmanship to conduct terrorist activities elsewhere, then we need to see what solution can be found and whether these people can have rights and duties in a different way; however, the question is whether this should be on Dutch soil.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u42	I have the feeling that Mr Oskam is turning a bit around when it comes to the CDA's position on stateless people. Does Mr Oskam think that the UN fundamental rights treaty which states that statelessness should not be allowed should be put aside in order to resolve this dilemma? Or does he say, no, we have to solve that dilemma but not go the wrong way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u43	Mrs Gesthuizen has already asked that. What I'm trying to say is I'm not taking a stand on it right now. I'd like to hear from the Minister what the possibilities are. We're working on this bill right now. If that is not enough, then we have to sit around the table with each other to see what the possibilities are. Of course, people have the right to citizenship, but you have to keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u44	I look forward to Mr Oskam's opinion on the export of problems. If you take away a person's nationality and that person is not in prison on the basis of a conviction but the country is being expelled, it may still have the same activities in mind. Are we not exporting the whole problem to other countries in or outside Europe? Isn't it a sliding bowl? What about the most horrible killers and child molesters? They may, however, retain their nationality in the Netherlands. Or is the CDA planning to come up with a proposal soon to export these people across the border so we can get rid of them here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u45	Mrs. Van Tongeren runs through this with seven-mile boots. Of course, I didn't say that at all. If someone becomes stateless, it is only a question of whether the Netherlands can put it across the border. Where is it supposed to go? If someone's out of state, they can't go to another country. So that's a complicated phenomenon. Only, if you are stateless and you reside in the Netherlands, then you no longer have the rights as a Dutchman, so as someone with Dutch nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u46	Mr Oskam does not understand me consciously or unconsciously. If you have two nationalities and you take someone from the Netherlands, someone like that goes to another country. We then export our problems, serious criminals, to another country. Is that the CDA's intention? And if we do that in the case of terrorist crimes, which are really horrible, are we going to do so in the case of other atrocious crimes, such as rapes, serial killings and the like? Do we want to export our criminal misery? Or does the CDA with GroenLinks think that these people should simply be condemned, sent to jail and re-socialized after serving their sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u47	The latter is of course true, but that is true for the commune crimes. However, when it comes to terrorist offences, you go back to the country of which you still have the nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u48	If it is up to the CDA, we will immediately take away not only the passport of football vandals, but also their Dutch identity. Am I to understand that the CDA claims to see statelessness as some kind of punishment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u49	That is a question in line with that of Mr Recourt and Mrs Gesthuizen. I said I wanted to hear the Minister's answer first. We want to look at this bill and only then will the debate come, as Mr Van der Steur said. If it all doesn't work out, maybe we should watch it together. I'm definitely willing to talk to you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u50	I think that's a little scary. The CDA says we'll see what the minister thinks. Does this mean that the CDA is willing to talk about making someone stateless, which is quite something, can in principle be seen as punishment? Do I understand that the CDA wants to think positively on this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u51	If you commit terrorist crimes abroad, you have Dutch nationality, you come back and are convicted, the CDA's view is that you are not worthy of Dutch citizenship. Then the Dutchmanship will be taken from you. That's the idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u52	Madam President. Young people who leave our country and families who leave Huizen, who settle in IS area, who participate in a terrorist struggle, who join a community with values that are at odds with ours: it is incomprehensible, but it is happening. We see that the number of jihad fighters is not decreasing, but only increasing. This is incredibly sad, especially for the young people who are joining a murdering gang in the Middle East from all over the world, but also from the Netherlands, who are preparing for violence and destruction and who find their homes in a terrorist network in which women's and minorities' rights are violated. The fact that they volunteer to join them is the real tragedy. That requires a powerful answer. The bill being discussed today is a small part of the answer for the Christian Union, but certainly not the whole answer. In 2013, almost two years ago, I signed a motion by Mr Dijkhoff, together with Mr Oskam, in which the government was asked to update the Dutch National Act. That law still focused too much on the foreign military service. We have asked for an amendment of the law, so that it is more useful for the current situation, with current relations and, for example, with the advent of IS. In other words, the distinction between state and non-state actors is becoming less and less relevant. That's why that adjustment was necessary. I would like to thank the Minister for getting to work on this. At the same time, I have a few questions about the content of the legislative proposal. The current article, I believe, is right to deny nationality. The Minister will always weigh whether that is appropriate. But then it is important to have a very sharp focus on what this weighting is about. I have read that it is about the essential interests of the Kingdom. The criterion is that they have been violated, but how does the Minister define the concept of "essential interests"? Is it also a matter of essential interests of the alliance to which the Netherlands belongs, NATO? Can the Minister make it clear on the basis of a single case if, despite a conviction under Article 134a of the Criminal Code, he is not going to withdraw nationality in the case of terrorist activities? I'd like to be clear about that. Is it true that this is an appealable ministerial decision? This is similar to other grounds for withdrawal. Can the Minister provide an insight into how this has happened in the case of previous withdrawals? Is the assessment also based on the other nationality of the person concerned? Suppose the other country loves the activities of the person concerned; is that a point of consideration? It could be the other way around. Take a country such as Egypt, where the death penalty may be on the activities carried out. What happens if the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship leads to the expulsion of Egypt with all its consequences? Are those matters involved in the Minister's decision? In view of the interpretation of the European Convention on Nationality on the undesirableness of statelessness, I am curious about the consequences in the country of which the person concerned also has a passport. The bill is aimed at adults. How does it work if the person concerned has started training for terrorist purposes and becomes an adult during training? I want more insight into the position of minors. The transitional right has been changed with a letter of amendment. As long as the sentence is not irrevocable, the new article shall also apply to offences committed prior to the entry into force of this law. Has the Council of State considered asking for advice on this matter? Are there any other examples of such a interpretation of the transitional law from the past? How does this change relate to Article 16 of the Constitution, which states: "No offence is punishable by force of a prior legal penalty'? Armed jihadism, the false lure for young people in our country, requires a good and firm answer, but that is not enough. Yesterday we had a round table on radicalisation. Ibrahim Wijbenga from Eindhoven, among others, was present. He mentioned the Aicha girl's case. She traveled at a very young age. She would have married several men. Her mother travelled to Turkey and finally got her back. In the meantime, she is out of the picture again. She would have remarried, she would have remarried. In the extreme, we may be able to withdraw her passport or deprive her of nationality, but that is not the answer to Aicha's problem. Ibrahim Webenga rightly asked: where is she and why do we not know? That seems to me to be a bigger problem. This bill is just a piece of a solution, a piece of an answer. For a large number of jihadgoers, the reduction of Dutch citizenship is a difficult step to achieve. The solution is never just to withdraw nationalities and passports, but it can be an appropriate means to explain the seriousness of the situation. If you are a citizen and want to be a citizen of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, it means that you accept our democracy and the rule of law, even better: appreciates, upholds, promotes and embraces its values. This is diametrically opposed to jihadism. For jihadgoers, it is precisely now that we need to re-establish these values of our freedoms and our rule of law. Can you do that? That's the big challenge. There have been varying experiences of deradicalisation programmes abroad, including positive ones. I mention Germany and Denmark, but in the Netherlands it is not progressing. Aicha should've been in a program like this a long time ago, but she's not. At the same time, it is in the Cabinet's action programme. When does the Minister have an insight into what works? Is he investigating that? Why does it make any difference for the shelter at the moment whether a returning jihadganger lives in The Hague or Soest? Shouldn't there be a national approach tailored to every returner? I am really asking the Minister for speed and concrete commitments. I want insight into which program works. There must be no cuts and cuts, but a sound approach that will also have a long-term impact. We can't do that without a thorough investigation. This also includes clarity as to whether the current budget is satisfactory or not. I am considering tabling a motion on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u53	I am a little confused, because I thought that Mr Segers started his speech by saying that this bill is part of the solution to combat people joining a terrorist organisation. Now when I hear his speech about Aïcha, it seems as if he wants to put much more emphasis on trying to get people out of such a network, to get them straight again, simply put. How can I reconcile this with the fact that the Christian Union, as far as I have tasted so far, has given a positive opinion on the Minister's proposal? The minister says: we don't want you here anymore and are certainly not going to help you, resocialize you or set you straight; you have to get out of here!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u54	If you take part in the fight of IS, show that you do not embrace the values of our rule of law and our freedoms, even more so, that you fight them with everything you have in you and that you are willing to give your life for them, then in the extreme, after an irrevocable condemnation, the moment when we say to such a person: now you are no longer part of our society. That is a component and hopefully it will have a deterrent effect. Hopefully the signal is clear: know what you're doing! If someone is radicalized and makes that choice, this can be the ultimate consequence. However, the withdrawal of the passport and nationality is not the solution. When someone like that returns, I hope there's a place in such a deradicalization program. I hope there will be a counterweight. I hope that, in the field of prevention too, there will be teachers who have a straight back, who will raise the Holocaust and who will go against views that are at odds with ours. These views must be combated in a variety of ways and the limits of the rule of law must be monitored. Very often this will be done through prevention and deradicalisation, but in the extreme it can also be done through the withdrawal of passport and nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u55	I understand that very well, but I am concerned about the way in which the Minister formulated it in his legislative proposal, in the explanatory memorandum and in the note on the report. In it he writes that he is actually going to do what Mr Oskam wants. He's going to find the limits to how far he can go to prevent him from having to make an exception and not having to take the nationality away. He wants to take that nationality away from a conviction under Article 140a, and now also Article 134a. That is a very different story from what I have just understood from Mr Segers' words. I don't understand how I can rhyme these things with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u56	If the Minister says that this is his only approach, my message to him is that this is really inadequate. This is really not enough. However, if this is part of a much broader approach, we can do business. I believe in a much broader approach, of which this can be a part, but in addition to prevention, along with deradicalisation programmes, and in addition to what I would almost call 'the moral offensive' against the thoughts of jihadists. We must fight against the ideology of jihadism.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u57	Mrs. Gesthuizen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u58	Let Mr Segers assume from me that the Minister is not going to make any progress. If he gets a chance to take someone with 134a's passport, he will. In any case, I have read it in the explanatory memorandum and the note on the report. Without wanting to express a value judgment and without wanting to say what is better: deradicating, trying to get someone back on the right path, cannot exist alongside that other. If you take someone's nationality and tell them to leave for another country or if someone is stateless in the Netherlands, they will no longer be eligible for a deradicalisation programme. I would like to know how the Christian Union is going to take nationality immediately, which is not automatically possible because it is not allowed by the courts, but what the Minister wants to do in 100% of the cases, in addition to Mr Segers' appeal, can exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u59	It's not or-or. It's en-and. For all the clarity, I don't want any situations leading to statelessness. We are in a state of law in which we want to hold on to it. But what if someone who has received prevention has heard the wonderful stories about the rule of law and has perhaps been offered a deradicalisation programme; if he still decides to fight and still has the sole aim of overthrowing the Western rule of law here, then the ultimate consequence may be that such a person himself also indicates that he no longer wishes to be part of our rule of law and our society. Then the consequence is indeed that you also decide to withdraw his nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u60	I'm trying to follow this argument, but it takes some effort. Can I summarize it as follows? We actually have all kinds of principles until someone gets too difficult. Then someone's so complicated that we feel it's time to go abroad with that person. Then the problem must be solved there. Is that what I hear my colleague from the Christian Union say?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u61	I'd surprise you if I said "yes," so I say "no, it's not." We stick to principles. That is precisely the basis for this legislative proposal, because the values of the rule of law and freedoms are so fundamental and reciprocal. If someone does not believe in this reciprocity, but says that he will do everything he can to destroy that freedom and the rule of law, this can be the ultimate consequence. That must never lead to statelessness; that is a constitutional principle to which I hold. It may, however, happen that a person himself may ultimately go through his or her actions and, by an irrevocable condemnation by the judge, cut off another constitutional principle.......................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u62	Can Mr Segers explain how the world becomes safer by taking away one nationality from someone who happens to have two passports and two nationalities, and by doing so only with those who are actually the most dangerous? How does that make the world safer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u63	A brief response, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u64	My brief response is to make it clear that our rule of law has borders that sometimes have to be defended. If you're part of this society, all freedoms will fall upon you, provided you grant others those freedoms as well. This reciprocity is crucial. If you then knowingly, even by fighting and fighting those freedoms, say that you do not want to be a part of it, then the ultimate consequence is that nationality is withdrawn. That only applies if you have two nationalities. I hope, however, that it will never come to this. I hope that people, precisely because we want to draw this ultimate consequence, will look at themselves very carefully and come to other insights.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u65	Please continue. Or were you done already?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u66	I wasn't finished, Mr. Chairman. I have two short passages left. I'll finish with that. Last week, the news came out that the Partnership of Moroccan Dutch people had already received 32 serious reports of radicalising young people in a month. Concerned parents contacted me. For these parents, who often have their hands in their hair, the government must be an ally. Yesterday, a father of a radicalized son, of such a traveled Syrian, sat at our table during the round table meeting. It's very sad to see how desperate such a person is. This bill helps to make it clear that as a member of Dutch society, you have a duty to respect the freedoms of our Constitution and to actively promote it. Mayor Aboutaleb put it nicely in Washington. There must also be limits, and this bill does so. The Christian Union Group thinks that borders are good, but only if the whole answer is given. I hope I made that clear. A firm approach to radicalisation also means that the government has the homework in order to make that society itself resilient and that the real work takes place with teachers, parents and people nearby. The government must be an ally of these parents and teachers and must see what measures are in place. This battle is also an ideological battle. Waves with nationality or passport should therefore never be the whole and only answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u67	Mr. Chairman. Jihadism and radicalisation are, of course, a major problem. The recent attacks in Brussels, Paris and Copenhagen show this once again. There are no easy solutions to these problems. There are no quick wins to come up with. We must combat this by means of effective measures which are well-balanced: on the one hand, they must be preventive and, on the other hand, they must be repressive. It is good that this Chamber has already discussed this at the highest level, with the group chairmen and the Prime Minister. I would like to confine myself today to the bill on Dutch citizenship. The Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap already knows grounds on which this minister can withdraw the Dutch citizenship, provided that someone has been irrevocably convicted and of course on condition that no one is stateless. It is a good thing that this has been said a number of times today. One can think of serious crimes and recruitment for a foreign military service, except when the King authorizes it, so I read in the law. Then it's okay. That's what it really says. There are also terrorist crimes and war crimes. By the way, it would adorn the cabinet if it tried to get the phrase "if the King allows it" out of the law. Anyone who enters the service of a foreign military force of a state involved in combat against the Kingdom automatically loses his Dutch identity. With the current problems of radicalisation, it does not seem unthinkable to come up with this bill and to include jihadist training and the preparation of terrorist crimes in that first row. For example, the Dutch Federation can now be withdrawn after irreconcilable conviction under that Article. There are then within that system guarantees for a proper course of justice. But if you study the file, you will encounter a number of issues. I'll give it to the minister. The first issue is the European context. Is this an all-for-one plan, with which we burden other countries with our jihadists, or is this a European and internationally well-coordinated plan that fits in with an international approach? Does the Minister have a visual on that? When and how did he talk to his colleagues abroad about this? In the written preparation of this bill, we agreed with the Minister on this. He referred in his response to the report to an investigation by the EUDO Citizenship on law in other countries. If you look closely at this, you will see that it only states in general that 14 European countries have lost ground. It does not say that those countries specifically include preparation and training as a loss point. Is this an all-in-one of the Netherlands, or can the Minister state quite precisely that some other countries also take preparation and training as a loss ground? Can he explain how the neighbouring countries deal with the crimes mentioned in the bill as a cause of loss? The second issue I am referring to the Minister relates to the Minister's well-known point of power, in other words: is the proposal effective? One of the conditions for depriving the Netherlands is a conviction under Article 134a of the Code of Criminal Law. How often is that article used? When questioned, that appears to be extremely little. Since its entry into force in April 2010, there have been only two convictions, while the 15 pending cases in 2014 are still unknown or lead to an irrevocable conviction. In addition, we do not make anyone stateless, so everyone who owns the Netherlands must be excluded and deducted from the sum. How many people do you have left? That's the question. Compared to almost 2,000 travellers and thousands of sympathizers, this is, of course, an extremely small part. Is this law, as the government itself seems to suggest, not especially symbolic legislation rather than a law that is effective, so is really doing something about solving a problem? I am, of course, asking this question intrusively. I understand very well that everyone in this Chamber wants to do something about the approach of jihadists. We should just not throw each other's eyes at a law that we actually know is not so effective and we are actually whispering to each other that it is mainly a symbol. Does the Minister really want to reflect on this? One of my questions about numbers of convictions has not been answered in the report. I assume the Minister will be happy to answer that question. Since Article 134 is quite new, I would like to know how often the possibilities already available to withdraw the Dutch identity of the person who has committed a terrorist offence under Article 83 or who is recruiting for a foreign military force, as described in Article 205, are being used. We will then know more about the scope of this legislative proposal. So I'd like to get a reaction to this. The third point concerns the discriminatory nature. In order to avoid statelessness, nationality is only taken away if another nationality remains. This, however logical, can naturally lead to different treatment of equal cases. A person of dual nationality who is only just under the crime of Article 134 and who is being prosecuted for the very first stage of preparation may lose his Dutch citizenship after conviction, while someone else who is only Dutch does not run that risk. That's a distinction by nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u68	I hear Mr Schouw say that he thinks it is logical that the main rule is that you always have to have one nationality. I wonder what Mr Schouw's logic is, when it comes to terrorists, people who are doing everything they can to fight the state of which they are nationals and to shoot the people who live there, who want to blow up the state and who also deny its right to exist. Why, in Mr Schouw's view, does such a person have the right to the nationality of the same State?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u69	Because my group has been concerned for years about people who are stateless. The fraction of the VVD doesn't do that. That's, I think, the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u70	That's a very strange answer. The VVD Group, like Mr Schouw, is concerned about people who are stateless, if that is not their fault and if it leads to them falling between shores and ships. This does not apply, for example, to situations in which they have committed war crimes and similar cases. That may be clear. It is interesting that Mr Schouw does not answer the question of what is really at stake. These people do not want the nationality of the Netherlands. These people do not want to be part of Dutch society. These people do not recognise the values and standards of Dutch society. D66 nevertheless wants these people to stay Dutch. The VVD Group really doesn't understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u71	My group thinks that statelessness is a terrible thing for people. Some people get into that by mistake; the representative of the VVD also knows these examples. If this bill were to take effect, some people would also be actively involved in it. The question is whether, as a political party, you think that's a responsible punishment. In the interrupting debate with the CDA, it was already a matter of whether we are going to include statelessness as punishment. This is, in all its simplicity, the result of Mr Van der Steur's reasoning and we do not want that. We do not want to organise this on a detour.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u72	Finally, Mr Van der Steur.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u73	I still do not understand Mr Schouw's reasoning. Everyone knows that being stateless is very annoying and undesirable and that we have all kinds of treaties and laws for that, as we have done in Dutch legislation. It is rather strange, however, that Mr Schouw is going to stand here in full for those who, at the same time, are doing everything in their power to put an end to the same state that Mr Schouw wants them to retain their nationality. I don't understand. Why is Mr Schouw so pleased with the fact that a terrorist trying to shoot everyone in the Netherlands can stay Dutch? I really don't understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u74	I'm just looking at a beautiful piece of rhetoric. I'm really glad to see that here. I see some flaws in the bill. I'm trying to ask the Minister about that. My group does not want people to be left out of state and that we are going to organise this right away through this legislative proposal. We think that is too much punishment for people. People will be punished in another way, if they have done something very horrible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u75	I have a personal fact. I thought I heard Mr Schouw say that the CDA is increasing statelessness as a kind of punishment, but of course I did not say that. I said we're gonna see how this bill gets through. If that's not enough, we'll talk. I appreciate that everyone is talking about their own words, but I would ask Mr Schouw to put it a little more carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u76	You've made your point. Please continue, Mr Schouw.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u77	It becomes even clearer when a third person with only Dutch nationality comes into the picture. Suppose he attacks and gets arrested and convicted. Because of the single nationality, that person cannot be deprived of Dutch citizenship, while the aforementioned person who commits a much lighter crime may lose his Dutch identity. I want to know how the Minister is going to ensure that this arrangement is proportionate and fair. A number of other speakers have already asked for examples. It is, of course, important in this legal process that we can establish precisely that the loss of Dutch citizenship is always proportionate to the seriousness of the facts committed. The fourth point relates to the retroactive effect. This proposal would apply only to acts committed after the entry into force of the law, but by letter of amendment it has been reduced to irrevocable conviction after the entry into force. This makes the bill more effective. After all, you can use it sooner. However, it also means that persons who are now arrested and persecuted but can only be convicted in some time can lose their Dutch identity. That raises questions. In criminal law, retroactive action is, of course, strictly prohibited. Someone must be able to align their actions with the possible threat of punishment. Now, of course, a decision by the Minister is not criminal law, but the punitive nature of the measure is strong. For many, spending a period in prison or paying a fine will feel less punishing than losing their nationality. I can already see the first attorney who is going to argue that his client had abandoned the crime and, for example, would not have provided a means for a terrorist offence if he had already known about this law. How does the Minister view this? Until now, the Minister defended the retroactive effect by saying that administrative law is not criminal law, so it is allowed. However, you can see that the European Court of Human Rights is looking primarily at the nature of the animal and less at its name. If an administrative measure is of a punitive nature, criminal safeguards may be mandatory. What, according to the Minister, is the risk of a correction by the ECHR on this point? This question is all the more pressing because that letter of amendment was not submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. There is therefore a great legal risk that this legislative proposal will be completely pointless if this legal gap remains in place. I am glad that we have some extra time to really ask the Council of State for an opinion on this, so that those who applaud this bill are sure that it is also just ECHR proof.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u78	Mr. Chairman. Let me start with something positive. It is good that the legislative proposal before us is finally being dealt with. With this bill there will be more opportunities to take Dutch nationality away from terrorist crimes and that is fine. However, it is richly late. This is indicative of the attitude of this cabinet towards the fight against terrorism and the fight against radicalisation and Islamic extremism: violence images in Rijswijk first received a visa and were not banned until after a media storm, violence images in Utrecht which are apparently more than welcome, the months waiting to submit this proposal to the House of Representatives and of course the conservative content of the bill. It breathes the "too little, too late" attitude of this cabinet. For example, we read in the bill that the Minister may withdraw Dutch citizenship in the case of terrorist offences. "Can pass" should, of course, be replaced by "must pass." After all, what guarantee does the Netherlands have that the Minister will actually withdraw nationality? This Minister of Security and Justice is of course not known as very decisive. He must also take account of the Labour Party. That party is not a club of firm measures either. The cabinet seems to be covering for itself. For example, the Minister writes that there are circumstances which may justify the withdrawal. Can the Minister explain why he wants certain jihadists to retain Dutch citizenship? My group has other ideas. The Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap has to be made much stricter. In all forms of terrorist offences, from small to large and from light to heavy, the Minister must, where possible, withdraw Dutch nationality. My group has also tabled an amendment on this. Why is there no compliance with the much stricter UK legislation? In Great Britain, nationality may be withdrawn if it is in the public interest. Why, as the good boy in the classroom, are we being restricted by European treaties again? Two weeks ago, members of Sharia4Belgium were sentenced to 12 years imprisonment in Belgium. In the Netherlands, however, figures with ski masks, maps and tickets for Syria are sent home bizarrely enough. It shouldn't get much crazier. The current bill takes over the sentence of up to eight years from the Code of Criminal Law. However, my group believes that this maximum penalty should be substantially increased from eight to twelve years. On this point, too, my group has tabled an amendment. Let us take an example from the Belgians in this respect. This conservative bill is only part of the cabinet's approach to combating jihadism and terrorism. The other government measures are also inadequate and need to be quickly replaced by much more robust policies. This means investing heavily in our security services, tighter monitoring of Jewish institutions and closing borders for Syrians. Should they still enter the Netherlands, they should be detained in administrative detention as far as we are concerned. My group is also in favour of the closure of mosques calling for violence, for the expulsion of radical imams and for the banning of preachers of violence from elsewhere. We are in favour of stopping foreign financing of Islamic institutions. We should be glad to hear when the cabinet comes forward with concrete proposals in this area, just as it did in Austria.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u79	Mrs Van Tongeren is the next speaker on the list of speakers, but she has asked to speak last. That is why I am now giving the floor to Mrs Gesthuizen. I see Mrs. Gesthuizen is surprised. I thought she'd already been informed of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u80	I'm pleasantly surprised it's my turn now, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. The Minister has informed us that the bill we are discussing today should be seen as part of the approach to "an acute threat against which jihadism is also addressed'. I would therefore like to begin by saying that our party considers it very important to combat all forms of terror. That is what we have said in previous debates. We support the government in addressing those who seek to overthrow or harm the same legal order here or in other parts of the world by force, outside the rule of law. Parties may differ on the question of when there is terrorism, human rights violations, crimes and abuses on which the Netherlands is to rule or in which we must intervene. There is often a difference of opinion here in the House of Representatives. There is no doubt, however, that the attempt to prevent terrorism, to take on board those who are running around with plans to commit terrorist acts, and to punish those who are already guilty of it, can count on our party's support. The only question is, how? This brings me to my first question about the cabinet bill. I read in the plans that it is mainly a question of being able to take away from the Dutch people who have violated the essential interests of the Dutch State. Those are the people against whom this bill is aimed. A rather simple question that could be asked is: what are the essential interests of the Dutch State? Is state security at stake here, for example? Is this a threat to the rule of law? In my view, a concept such as 'essential interests' has everything to do with it. I'd like to hear from the Minister what he means by that. I believe that it is justifiable to deny a person who endangers the survival of the Dutch State, or of any State, whose intention is to threaten and overthrow the State, the right to remain a national of that State. That principle is already as old as the road to Rome or even older than the road to Rome, for exile was already in ancient times a fearful and regular means of disposing of those who were seen by those in power as dangerous to the continuity of the state. They simply didn't get back into the country. Many tragedy is based on that. I think it is justified to say that people can forfeit their right to be Dutch, but it is only logical that all of this should be done on the basis of very strict criteria, in short: only in the worst cases. I'd like to take a look at our own recent legal history. In 1985 the possibility of taking away the Netherlands after entering foreign military service was precisely removed from the law. That was 30 years ago. The provision was considered problematic. In the explanatory memorandum to the Act, which I believe was from 1981, it was stated at the time: "If the Dutch authorities are aware, it will have to inform the person concerned, by means of a decision which is open to appeal, that he has lost his Dutch nationality. Appeals may then include the question of whether, as the Convention states, there is a practice of the person concerned which is incompatible with his duty of faithfulness to the Contracting State. It will often be difficult to determine whether there is infidelity. In addition, a reasonable application of the law will have to entail that the government will in advance give the person concerned the opportunity to regularise his situation vis-à-vis the Netherlands by resigning from the service of the foreign power. All in all, the effect of a ban does not seem to be very high, but it may lead to a burden on the public administration to enforce the ban." What strikes me most is the view that there must be infidelity to the treaty state and that it will be difficult to determine whether there is infidelity. The Minister therefore states that anyone guilty of participating in a terrorist organisation automatically violates the essential interests of the Dutch State and that the Dutch Federation should not facilitate the commission of terrorist acts. What exactly does the Minister mean by that? That is not sufficiently clear to me. Don't get me wrong: the SP very much agrees that in Articles 140, 140a and 134a of the Criminal Code, it is clear that participation in a terrorist organisation in any way, whether you recruit people or give money to pay for terrorist acts, is punishable and that this includes a substantial penalty. Of course terrorism is a terrible form of crime. Murder, manslaughter and murder, which also come with 'ordinary' criminal crimes for the most serious disruption of the rule of law, are all cases that are punishable with the strong agreement of my group. We therefore support the extension of the Code of Criminal Law to Article 134a. But that's not the point today. It's not about the criminality. Today it's about taking away someone's nationality. The Minister puts forward other grounds for this. My questions are not about the rejection of terrorism but about the assumption that this automatically violates the essential interests of the Netherlands and then in such a way that someone is forfeiting the right to be a Dutchman. This brings me to a number of other questions, first of all to the question of transitional rights. In response to this, the Minister is probably using the reasoning that this change of law is not a law of a punitive nature, in other words: it would not be a punishment to deprive a person of his Dutch citizenship, but a law of purely administrative law. I believe that Mr Schouw has just said the same thing. The Minister will probably say that the principle that no punishment should be given if that punishment did not exist before the crime was committed does not apply. I'll fight that. Revocation of a person's nationality is a sanction for unwanted behaviour. It's a punishment for something you've done, no matter how the government formulates it or wishes to formulate it. So what the Minister is doing with this part of the bill is punishing with retroactive effect. I do not think that is right and consider an amendment on this point. I would like to hear a response from the Minister to my statement that the original transitional rule was closely linked to criminal law with his nulla poena sine praevia empty and that the new wording unjustly oversteps this principle. Another eye-catching pain of the bill is the following. As is already the case, Dutch nationality cannot be taken away from a person who has only a single nationality, namely the Dutch. As a result, a person convicted of participating in a terrorist organisation can only lose his or her Dutch identity if he or she has another nationality. For almost 16 million Dutch people, this change will not change the fact that they are Dutch. For more than a million other Dutch people, namely those with a double nationality, that is the case. I am talking about hundreds of thousands of Dutch people who also have Moroccan or Turkish nationality, a more limited group of people who are Germans, Belgians or British, and small other groups who have a different nationality besides the Dutch. In response to questions to the Minister from various sides whether this would not make an undesirable distinction between different Dutchmen, the Minister says that this is already the case. After a conviction under Article 140a, for example, you can already lose your nationality, but only if you have another nationality. That's the end of the story for him, it seems. That is not the case for me. Firstly, I do not think that the current situation is necessarily desirable. After all, there is a distinction that can make a huge difference for people. One person is also banned after a prison sentence, while the other can just stay in the Netherlands. Even if the crimes that have been committed are of exactly the same nature, so if they have done equally bad things. In fact, a person who has done much more serious things can stay in the Netherlands because his nationality cannot be taken away, while another cannot stand up for it. It is the intention of the Minister to be able to take away the Dutchmanship by means of this bill, including those who have indirectly committed themselves to commit terrorist acts. The group we are talking about, people under 140a and 134a, is getting bigger and therefore more diverse. Soon we will run the risk of someone who has made a relatively large contribution to committing a terrorist act, let us say: someone who falls under 140a may remain Dutch, while another person who has made a relatively smaller contribution such as attending an information meeting or giving money, someone who falls under 134a, gets a lower sentence from the criminal court, but then loses his Dutch identity. I'm not saying he should go free, because he's still a criminal. He'll have to be punished according to criminal law. In my view, this is a matter of legal inequality. I do not care that there are parties who say that they are terrorists who have no rights as far as they are concerned. If you're using that reasoning, why are you going to war against terror? If you want to abolish the rule of law for certain people, what makes you better than those who do it in other places in the world for other minorities? In my view, therefore, there is legal inequality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u81	On the second final point, I fully agree with Mrs Gesthuizen. I'll see another dilemma. Think of the people in the right of asylum who should actually go back to their country, but cannot because of the ECHR, because they are in danger of being persecuted there. We also make a distinction between them: they have no right to asylum, but one has to go back and the other does not. That's what you do to protect a greater basic right. In this case, that is the right not to be prosecuted and not to risk your life. This seems to me to be a similar argument to not denying nationality if you only have one. The greater goal is that people do not become stateless. In fact, you would like to deprive everyone of nationality, but in some cases you do not, because there is a greater interest here, namely the prevention of statelessness.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u82	I think I understood the question correctly. Moreover, I do not know whether I agree with that comparison with the right of asylum. But to answer your question very briefly: I do not think it is a good idea to deprive everyone of their nationality. I do not know whether Mr Recourt thinks he has heard that in my speech. In any case, I think it is very unfair to say that we can do it with the people who have a double nationality, in my view, that is an extra punishment, even if we do not do it with people of a single nationality. I think so anyway. Then I'll keep it strictly legal for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u83	But if you do, I'm gonna try that, too... then that equation is going to work...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u84	With the right of asylum.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u85	...with the right of asylum and the ECHR. Because there are also similar cases: in both cases people have no right to stay in the Netherlands. One you'll send back and the other you won't. In the latter case, you don't do that because he or she has to fear for body and limb. In short, you're making a distinction. That's what you do here identically. You can take away nationality, with one exception: you don't want to make people out of state. That's what matters more. That's what I mean when I say it's a similar situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u86	Now I understand. The Secretary of State has said so many times that my ears are ringing, that there is always a strictly individual balance of interests. One person from Afghanistan will not be deported and the other will be deported. If I understand Mr Recourt correctly, he says that there are two people who come from different countries. One will be deported, the other not because there is a terrible reign of terror in one country, which means that the other will wait for inhuman treatment, while the other will not be deported. Then, in my view, that is a different kind of consideration, namely on the basis of all the factors of the individual case, whereas this law is precisely about, especially if I read the Minister's explanation correctly, that it should in principle be possible for anyone who falls under 134a to deprive him or her of Dutch citizenship. There is only a gross separation between those who do have a dual nationality and those who do not. I object to this. I do not know whether Mr Recourt's question has been sufficiently answered. I hope so. Otherwise, we'll talk about it in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u87	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u88	Distinction on the basis of nationality should not, in principle, be allowed. Why does the Minister believe that such a distinction can be made, especially if this means that the consequences for one will be much greater than for the other, who may have committed a much more serious crime? Does the Minister not think that judges will take account of these possible consequences when deciding whether or not someone is guilty on the basis of Article 134a? But the Minister is of course already working on a new bill, in which he wants to be able to take away a person's nationality without a judicial conviction. Perhaps he anticipates with this on judges who might think that a conviction based on Article 134a would be justified, but that losing the Dutchmanship would be a bridge too far, so that they do not condemn on the basis of this article. I fear that this bill is a sign of inequality for everyone in the Netherlands with a dual nationality. I fear that this will further strengthen the contradictions in our society. I do not want to say that these contradictions and feelings of exclusion of certain sections of the population are primarily the cause of extremism and possible participation in a terrorist activity, but I do not think that laws which make a very clear distinction between different groups of Dutch people can be stigmatising. I am afraid that this is the case here too, something which could exacerbate rather than improve the problem. Finally, I would like to address the purpose of the legislative proposal. The Minister writes very clearly to us that the purpose of the cabinet's proposal is not to prevent participation in the jihad. That would not be possible, given the wording of the bill. After all, there must have been an irrevocable conviction first. Then you're automatically at the end of the story. I therefore wonder whether the bill does not go beyond its purpose. I think it was Mr Schouw who spoke most emphatically about symbol legislation. The exclusion from the Netherlands of people who have committed acts of terrorism is not a guarantee for a safer country, especially if others, who cannot be prevented, can just stay in the Netherlands. The question is also whether the country where people end up will know what to do with or wait for people who are or have been terrorists.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u89	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party wants to take tough and effective action against terrorists. We all want that here in the Chamber, but we also want to prevent tomorrow's terrorism. There are two sides, two legs: fight and prevent. The cabinet has also shown these two legs well, in the action plan against terrorism which it came up with this summer. My group attaches great importance to this prevention. My group chairman, Diederik Samsom, has also paid a great deal of attention to this in two debates. Help the teacher in the class to fight. Signal requested signs of radicalisation. If you see as a school that someone isn't coming... Bike to it. Mr Marcouch often brings the action to bear, and I am proud of that. Anyway, now we're talking about the other leg, the leg we called "fighting." We have to, with great urgency and efficiency. What we do has to work, too. The Labour Party is not, in principle, opposed to the taking away of nationality, as an extreme, if essential interests of the Netherlands are harmed. The legislative proposal that we are discussing today leads to a limited amendment to the existing law. That law, in which it is thus already possible to take away a person's nationality, has 60 grounds, 60 criminal convictions. I didn't exactly count them, but there's more or less 60 of them. Today we add the 61st by adding the already existing Article 134a Criminal Law on the training of terrorists to the 60 already existing offences. For example, it looks like recruits for the armed struggle. That was already a criminal offence. On that basis, you could already lose Dutch nationality. Now there is article 134a of criminal law about that training, if the bill is passed. That means: no new principles and no new borders. It's a limited supplement. But, like I say to others, it's not a symbol. It is not a symbol because it can be important in individual cases. There may be situations where training is so serious and serious that the loss of nationality is justified. I am very pleased that the cabinet has listened to experts. In the first instance, the plan was to remove it automatically. This has been deleted on the basis of expert arguments. For example, they have referred to European case law. Anyway, now the existing law has been adapted. The existing law already referred to'may withdraw', i.e. a provision. I can only read that clause about proportionality: only in serious cases, so not a very small door, as I heard the CDA say. The CDA quotes the Minister again: only if serious personal interests are involved. As far as I am concerned, proportionality is wider than those serious personal interests. It is a question of weighing up, initially by the government and then by the judge, whether the measure of depriving nationality is proportionate. Again, in the first instance, the government makes that assessment. I would like to hear from the Minister how he sees it and whether there will be an amendment implied, because it is nowhere in the documents on the current National Law on the Netherlands and the application of Article 14. Secondly, the judge makes that assessment. Also in how the judge tests, nothing changes. In my view, the judicial review of proportionality is now really wider than that tiny back door that seems to be in the explanatory statement. Then I'll come to the Transitional Law. For my part, too, I am asking whether this is a punitive measure, as called in the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. If that is the case, other groups have already pointed this out. Then we will indeed be at odds with the principle of nulla poena sine empty: no punishment without prior law or legal standard. Once again, I will first of all listen carefully to the Minister's reply, but I do have some concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u90	I am glad that Mr Recourt is making the same point as I have. If the European Court rejects it for these reasons, then it is a symbolic law. What kind of assurances does Mr Recourt want from the Minister? Does he want the Minister to say: no, we will not be burdened by the European Court? Or does he want the Minister to ask for advice from, for example, the Council of State or from a number of experts? How does Mr Recourt see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u91	This has nothing to do with whether it's symbolic or not. It has to do with transitional rights and with the question of which cases it is already applicable or not. Suppose the law is passed, then it becomes applicable once and can have power of expression, even if it is limited. I therefore believe that these discussions are separate from each other. It is a question of whether this is a transitional right. Can it be maintained in view of the general principle and case law of the European Court of Human Rights? At first, I'm just gonna listen to the minister and maybe he'll convince me. I do not go so far as the D66 Group, which wants the Council of State to deliver an opinion on this matter. Let the Minister give his answer first. I'll keep looking after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u92	Does the Labour Party and D66 agree that this is a weak point in the Minister's bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u93	It could be a weakness. It is a point on which I would like to explain. If it is indeed a punitive measure, as it is called in English, then this cannot be done. That's why I'd like to get an explanation first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u94	The PvdA and GroenLinks both want fewer terrorists and fewer terrorist attacks. Can Mr Recourt explain to me how this legislation, which he does not regard as symbol legislation, will contribute to fewer terrorists and fewer terrorist attacks in the world?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u95	Yes, I can. This law is about protecting the essential interests of the Netherlands. They are protected if the terrorist acts you have committed and for which you have been sentenced by the judge are so serious that you can say that you have attacked your own country and your own rule of law and that you have lost your nationality. That can be done, and I hope that this has a very important look and effect on people who are planning to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u96	You hope it will have that effect. Can you base that on anything? Are there numbers of people being expelled from Europe? Is there any research that shows that potential terrorists are very sensitive to the idea that there may be a chance that they will ever be deprived of nationality? On what basis does the PvdA Group base the hope that this will actually help to contain the amount of jihad fighters?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u97	It's not about restraining jihad fighters, it's about protecting the Netherlands. Fortunately, this has happened very rarely. In recent decades, I haven't seen any examples, so we don't have any figures. It is, of course, the case that a person whose nationality has been withdrawn can be declared undesirable and thus excluded from the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u98	Let's get back to transitional law. Mr Recourt is right to put his finger on that too. I did, too. He also quotes Article 16 of the Constitution. Isn't it strange that the Council of State didn't let that shine a light on it, if it does indeed touch the Constitution? If we do not need this in the single communication, then I would ask the PvdA Group for a more detailed explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u99	When we were dealing with criminal law, it was clear, because it is a criminal law principle. The question before us is whether, while we are talking about administrative law, this also affects the criminal law principle, even though we are organizing it in another box. We have that discussion a lot. We do not always ask the Council of State for advice on this. You do that if you still have doubts, but initially I'm going down the normal road by asking the Minister if he can explain that convincingly. Then I'll keep looking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u100	Mr Recourt says: sometimes we do, sometimes we don't. My question is, why not here? It affects an article of the Constitution and thus an important starting point for the rule of law. We want to remain constitutional in the fight against terrorism. Then why has it not been submitted to the Council of State to make use of the wisdom that can be obtained there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u101	Maybe we should. I repeat that we must first give the Minister an opportunity to reply, as we do with any legal procedure. Maybe we still have follow-up questions. Then let's see where we stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u102	I cannot escape the impression that the PvdA Group has already reached a verdict on this matter. Mr Recourt stated that he was not opposed in principle to the amendment of this law. I do have a question about this. When it comes to essential interests of the Netherlands and as people who harm essential interests of the Netherlands, nationality is withdrawn. There are also people in our society who say that PvdA's waste the essential interests of the Netherlands. Should the nationality of PvdA citizens also be withdrawn?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u103	If PvdA's, VVD's or thinkers are terrorist acts or terrorists, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u104	Then I'll get to my point. Of course, this was meant to be a piece of irony. I remember a piece from 2012 that I was proud of at the time as a PvdA'er, because that was me back then. That was about the double-heartedness of double-nationality. The current Vice-President of the PvdA said, when it came to withdrawing dual nationalities, that is an incomprehensible and reprehensible double-minded attitude. He called on both parties to reject that double-heartedness and to treat all the Dutch equally, regardless of their origin. Do you think that this change of law will treat people equally?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u105	This bill does not change the treatment of people with a single or double passport at all. That is a long time ago the existing law. This adds only one article to the 60 that are already there. I assume that Mr Kuzu wants to make a point of principle, namely whether you are making a distinction between a person with a double or a single nationality. I have already said in the interrupting debate with Mrs Gesthuizen that this is legitimate in this case, because you consider the greater, underlying importance of statelessness to be more important. The Netherlands is rightly bound to this in a number of treaties. That is also stated in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Everyone has the right to a nationality or a state. We believe that this right is more important than saying that any person who carries out certain acts of terrorism should be deprived of nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u106	I think that Mr Recourt needs a lot of words to speak right what is crooked. What this bill does is to build in an ambiguity, which I note was still opposed by the PvdA in 2012. I quote again: 'For the sake of power, CDA and VVD agreed with Wilders' desire to limit double nationality'. I note here today that the PvdA is doing the same for the sake of the power to govern.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u107	Beautiful rhetoric. It's just... it's not about anything. This law does not change anything at all, nor does it change the position of my Vice-President, Mr Van Dam. Nor does it have anything to do with limiting double nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u108	I am just chewing on that piece of morality in which Mr Recourt says that the people who do not have a double passport and who do not have a double nationality should also be able to take their nationality away, but that cannot be because they become stateless, so we only do it with the people who have a double nationality. That is his reasoning, but I think that is a bit of a circular reasoning. It is, of course, the principle of equal treatment. Then I don't think you can say: we're putting the importance of statelessness back on top of that. It is about the principle of equal treatment. If you do not come to that equal treatment, is it not wiser not to do it at all because it is not appropriate not to do it for one group and for the other group is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u109	I keep repeating that this bill does not change anything. In fact, we are now discussing a long-standing law and not this bill. However, if we do so: no, we are not talking about equal treatment but about whether a justified distinction can be made. That is why I referred to you as an example in my interruption, and we are also making a justified distinction. One can go back to Afghanistan and the other can't, both of which have no right to asylum under the UN Refugee Convention. This is based on Article 3 of the ECHR. In my view, this is identical to the situation outlined here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u110	I can very well imagine that we will get away with it in national and international law, because it is indeed a situation that already exists in principle by Article 140a on the basis of which the Minister can take away a person's nationality and on the basis of which that distinction is also permitted. As far as I'm aware, there's no procedure for fighting that at the moment. The point is, however, that we must also make a statement of principle about it ourselves in this House of Representatives. We are dealing with a group that is getting bigger because more people are going to get criminally convicted, and with a group that is also getting more diverse. Does the Labour Party consider it fair that a person of Dutch nationality who has taken part in the armed struggle should be condemned but not lose his nationality, while another person who may have been only at an information meeting loses his nationality as a result?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u111	We can make statements of principle on this today, but the Chamber has done so before and at the time when the National Law on the Netherlands was adopted, at least as far as this part of it is concerned. It's been a long time. I do not know what the SP voted at that time, but that could have been just a vote in favour. Nevertheless, you can now think differently about that. I do not think otherwise, because I think that the point you are referring to is that you are taking away the horseman's nationality and that you cannot deprive the main criminal who has a single nationality of his nationality in the context of proportionality. I don't think that's proportionate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u112	I understand that, but that would mean that Mr Recourt placed that responsibility on the Minister and that he felt that the Minister should make a distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u113	Yes. In my first term, I asked the Minister to do the same. Moreover, it is not only the Minister, but also the judge who tests it again. If this minister is rather "hardlined," I hope we still have a judge who is fully legal as to whether that "hardlineness" is justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u114	I would like to go back to the beginning of Mr Recourt's contribution. He said that we also have a different approach, that of Ahmed Marcouch, who takes the bike and looks for and addresses someone. In other words, we have a very wide range of policies and policies aimed at deradicalisation and the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u115	That was right at the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u116	It's a good thing we're gonna end up with that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u117	Yeah, then the circle's all over again. My question now is whether that is in balance. If you look at that whole overview of what we're doing now, and if you know that sometimes it's much more effective to go after someone and smother radicalisation in the bud, do we do enough, looking at the relationship between repression, prevention and the softer approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u118	You have to do one thing and not leave the other. That is my first point. So we are now on the repressive side, the approach side. It is not for nothing, however, that my group should be allowed to decide for ourselves what it is about, because now the law is calling for a great deal of attention to be paid to the preventive side. It is important that we first of all prevent terrorism and, more importantly, that we remove the breeding ground for it, that they are left alone and that they are better dealt with as well. That is the only way to bring the threat of terror down in the Netherlands in the future and hopefully to get rid of it. We must make every effort to remove the soil. This cabinet does so, but the PvdA is the first, together with the Christian Union, to give an additional incentive to do so and also to do so to our own mayor and to all the mayors, teachers, community workers, and anyone who can contribute a bit. After all, this is a very topical and extremely important subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u119	I agree with Mr Recourt that this is a very crucial issue. But what does he think about the fact that returning Syrians, who may be a danger and who are disoriented, are not being caught in all places? That is the most basic thing we need to do: to make sure that those people are in sight, to keep an eye on them, to engage in conversation and sometimes more than that. How does he feel about this not happening? We are talking about a measure that we have yet to see whether it will ever be taken. However, we are in favour of this measure being taken. But then it is rather poignant to see that the most basic is not being dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u120	I don't know if they're not being watched. After all, we also have secret services. I can assume and I hope they have eyes on anyone who poses a potential danger to the Netherlands. However, I fully agree with the Christian Union that there are too many differences between municipalities; some municipalities have a mayor who invested years ago in deradicalisation and in contact with minority groups and who has chosen a position as an ally of the community against the fight against extremism in their groups. We must act harder, we must act more urgently and we must not leave any differences between the municipalities. I have already said this in a number of debates, as my colleague Mr Marcouch has said in a number of debates, and that is just what we keep saying. It's just not the issue right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u121	Mr. Chairman. International terrorism is without doubt one of the greater threats to our free, liberal society. Never before has that threat been so widespread, so large and so structural. Our freedom is much less obvious than we thought for a long time. In previous debates, such as in the debate on the horrible attacks in Paris, we have, to our regret, been forced to see that again. In a more or less organized context, attacks are being carried out with the aim of disrupting our free society. The sad events in Denmark are another harsh example of this. Our freedom is threatened by jihadists fighting in the name of their faith, at least their interpretation of it, justifying their terrorist acts. They reject Western freedoms, Western norms and values. They turn away from freedom of speech. They deny freedom of religion. They have nothing to do with the integrity of the human body and trample on human rights. They kill, rob, rape and commit slavery. Combating terrorism within and outside our borders is complicated and yet we must do so. New avenues must be explored for this. New instruments need to be developed. If necessary, new laws should be adopted. This law is an example of that. With the Dijkhoff motion, supported by a number of colleagues present here, the VVD asked this Minister to take action. We thank him for the speed with which he has taken up this motion. The VVD is of course in favour of this bill. On the international stage, we are no longer just dealing with state armies. Where the law has known for decades the possibility of taking away Dutch citizenship for those who join an enemy army, this has not so far been the case for non-state enemies. The VVD is pleased that this law will change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u122	Mr Dijkhoff of the VVD has indeed tabled a motion calling for an amendment to Article 15 of the Dutch Act. What we're getting is something completely different. I do not understand why the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is now saying that this is a good legislative proposal, whereas it is a very different version of what is being asked in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u123	That is correct, but nevertheless we agree with this bill for the simple reason that we have been persuaded by the explanatory statement, namely that this is the best way to achieve the objective, also given the international conventions we are party to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u124	But these international conventions do allow for the automatic abolition of nationality in a number of very serious situations. Does the VVD in fact say that the legal provision that we now know, where that "automatic" is capable of entering foreign military service, should in fact also be adapted?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u125	No, the point of entering strange military service is that you're sure that person stays in the foreign country. This is different from the situation we are dealing with today, namely people who can commit terrorist offences in the Netherlands and outside the Netherlands. You have to offer customization over and over again, you have to keep looking at how you can best deal with someone like that. Sometimes you want to opt for the opportunity to take away nationality. Sometimes it is wiser not to do so and just let the person concerned suffer and serve the sentence here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u126	Apparently, that's the cardinal difference that the VVD makes: if you enter foreign military service, you stay there and never come back. Where does Mr Van der Steur get that from?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u127	That's the ratio behind the provision as it was there. If you enter foreign military service and if that is an enemy country, then you reject your own country. In an interruption debate with Mr Schouw, I indicated that this also applies to many terrorists, but it is the question of what is the most effective method of tackling this volatile group, and that is ultimately what the VVD stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u128	I found Mr Van der Steur's answer to Mr Van der Staaij's question interesting. Mr Van der Steur started out very tough. I thought: I recognize the VVD again a bit as a party of security. But now it's different. The VVD has been persuaded by the Minister that the bill is the best solution. Then the legal vulnerability of the jihadist, the potential or perhaps real terrorist, for the VVD is therefore more important than the security of the ordinary Dutchman. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u129	No, it's the other way around. The security of the ordinary Dutchman must be the starting point for the policy pursued by the minister. In a number of cases, it may be absolutely desirable and necessary to take away nationality. That must be done, but if the consequence of taking away nationality is that society is becoming more unsafe or that we are exporting insecurity, which is not something civilised that you should do in the Netherlands, then I think that the Minister should be able to choose another solution or a combination of both. You can put someone in jail and at the same time take away nationality if that's the best method. It's about customization.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u130	The practice is different for the time being. That's what I showed myself in my input. What Mr Van der Steur is doing here is turning things around. He makes the Netherlands more unsafe. The practice has shown that, my own input shows that, Mr van der Steur's story shows that, and so does the bill. The Netherlands becomes less safe if you do it this way than when you take the bill as before for consultation. Mr. Van der Steur can't get out of that, can he? Then we can keep the interruptions brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u131	I believe that Mr De Graaf and I have a very different idea of how best to meet safety in the Netherlands. Mr De Graaf will also have to admit that a terrorist with a machine gun, whether of Dutch nationality or not, is in both cases a terrorist with a machine gun. He's dangerous in all cases. The security of society is not so much affected by having that nationality or not. Above all, it is a question of how much resources that man or woman has to put our safety at risk. That's the essence. That is also the essence of what the VVD expects of the Minister. The security of society is always at the forefront of the VVD; that is our starting point. I do not therefore recognize Mr De Graaf's triumphant story on this point. From that point of view, in the same security, the Minister can make use of the possibility of withdrawing a person's nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u132	Mr De Graaf, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u133	Interesting! What the VVD wants from the Minister is as Mr Van der Steur explains, but Mr Van der Steur and this government do not let go of jihadi's. They do not lock the borders and they do not stop the asylum entry. The problem in the Netherlands therefore continues to worsen thanks to the VVD. The Netherlands is becoming more unsafe thanks to the VVD. With this patch on a gutting wound we do a little bit, and a little less when it comes to Mr Van der Steur. The Netherlands is becoming more unsafe thanks to the VVD. That is the honest story and Mr Van der Steur should tell it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u134	If that was the honest story, so would Mr Van der Steur. No matter how many times Mr De Graaf repeats it, what he says is wrong. The security of society does not depend on nationality. The security of society depends on whether terrorists are given the opportunity to commit terrorist offences in the Netherlands or abroad. As a VVD, we stand for a complete tailor-made approach in which you have various possibilities to combat terrorism effectively. The withdrawal of nationality is part of this, but including terrorists in prisons is also part of it. The idea that the terrorist's danger has left when he leaves the country, is trained in Syria and then apparently no longer returns, is really nonsense. Mr De Graaf knows that as well as I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u135	It is certain that this law can also deal with Dutch terrorists who are preparing, committing or serving attacks in our own country. Now that I can take over this debate today from my colleague Dijkhoff, I can also freely quote from his own dissertation which he published in 2010 and with which he obtained the degree of doctorate. The title of that dissertation was War, Law, and Technology, or "war, law and technology." In that dissertation, he writes that changes in the practice of armed struggle pose different challenges to the law. The goals of the law are sometimes no longer met. In order to achieve the original objectives, the law needs to be adapted. That is exactly what we are doing today. We are therefore pleased, as I have just explained in the little debate with Mr De Graaf, that the decision to take away that Dutch citizenship is not automatic. It is reserved for the Minister. It is a possibility, precisely because of the customization needed to ensure the safety of Dutch society. It goes without saying that it will then be possible to bring an action before the courts. We must also be aware that to participate in a terrorist organisation, you do not have to walk around with a bomb belt or a kalashnikov. Those who systematically participate in the propaganda struggle of a terrorist group are therefore also part of that terrorist group. Anyone who does so must be punished as a participant in that terrorist organisation as regards the VVD. If necessary, he can and must surrender his Dutch identity. The VVD believes that people who oppose our freedoms and values do not deserve to be Dutch. In practice, this law will for the time being only apply to people with dual nationality. This has been discussed in detail and opinions differ widely in this Chamber. The fact that this will only take place in people of dual nationality is not a conscious choice for the VVD. Nor is that the intention of this law. It is the result of the restrictive effect of the treaties against statelessness which we are also part of. Those treaties do not allow a person of a single nationality to take away nationality, at least not for the reasons that exist here today. The question is whether this is desirable. I have already had an interrupting debate on this with Mr Oskam and Mr Schouw. The position of the VVD Group on this is actually quite simple. We believe that anyone who does not want to be part of our Dutch society in all possible ways has no interest in being a Dutchman either. It is quite logical that you take away such a person than the Dutchmanship. As long as that is not possible under the treaties that we have, it is justified to ask the Minister whether he is prepared to consider, in consultation with his colleagues, whether these treaties can be adapted in this respect. All the countries in Europe and, in fact, all the countries in the world are struggling with the same problem. We all think that statelessness is undesirable, because it can put people in terrible trouble. At the same time, we recognise and recognise that it is remarkable that you are then obliged to allow terrorists who fundamentally reject their own state to retain that nationality. The United Kingdom has actually preceded us on this point. But, Mr President, I will first give Mr Schouw the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u136	I do. You just keep talking and we'll see what happens. Mr Schouw, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u137	Do I understand correctly that the VVD says: we want to get rid of the existing treaties on statelessness?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u138	Mr Schouw is more than capable of listening carefully to what I am saying. The VVD believes that we should have an international discussion on whether other Contracting Parties, like us, do not run into that problem and how they look at the solution of that problem. England has already made an advance on that. I am very curious, for example, to see what Mr Schouw thinks about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u139	I'm just trying to find out if this honking horn is from the VVD, because that's good for election campaigns and stuff. What does the VVD want? Does the VVD want this minister to make an effort to get rid of these treaties? Or does the VVD want this minister to start a non-binding discussion on the subject? It is not clear to me how the VVD Group is in this. Is it an important demand for the Minister to have this discussion, because she ultimately wants to get rid of these treaties and introduce statelessness as a new punishment? What is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u140	The VVD Group wants to make the Netherlands safer. That is the starting point of this debate. It is also the starting point of the VVD Group's action on terrorism. Mr Schouw may experience this as an election debate. The VVD doesn't think it is. The safety of the Netherlands is never part of an election debate. Security is something fundamental that we always want in our country, in every way possible. That includes this law. This raises a legitimate question as to the importance of attaching nationality to someone who, in all forms and in a structural manner, refuses to be part of that society and who fights that society. That is exactly what I have told Mr Schouwen earlier. D66 says: we think it is so important that someone is not without a state that he should still be obliged to remain Dutch. We say to this minister: take a look in Europe and in the world, because we also have the UN Convention on whether there is a willingness there. As indicated in the explanatory memorandum, this discussion has already taken place in the Council of Europe. So it's already being looked at. I ask the Minister to talk to his fellow ministers about the state of affairs in their country, how they look at this and what their views are. That's exactly what I said before.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u141	We are having a very fundamental debate today. The Chamber agrees on a lot of things. This applies, among other things, to the fact that we have a very high legal order here in the Netherlands. We fight for our right to equality. I have also heard about the equal treatment of men and women. We have a legal order in which you are sure of your rights vis-à-vis the Dutch State and vis-à-vis other citizens. That's what it's really all about. That is why we are so angry at those who, here or in countries far away, might wish to introduce a totally different legal order, with rules and laws that we consider inhumane. But now I hear the spokesperson of the VVD making a plea in which he says that statelessness is actually fair. I am now asking a very sincere question, without wanting to compare and murderous gang and a rather decent government party in this country, in my view. If you say that you stand up for all those rights that we respect here in the Netherlands, and if you say that our rule of law and our rule of law must stand up, how do you manage to say here that you would be okay if certain minorities in the Netherlands and worldwide were to walk completely without rights on this earth, namely without state?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u142	I do not think I fully understand Mrs Gesthuizen. No, I don't understand Mrs. Gesthuizen at all. She means to make a fervent plea for terrorists, but I really don't understand what she's talking about. It's very simple: every human being, terrorist or not, has rights. We are now discussing whether a terrorist retains the right to remain a member under a treaty or to be a national of a particular state, while fundamentally denying the existence of that state. I can't follow that, I can't justify it. I think it is reasonable that, as we did at the time with the warriors in Spain, we should discuss whether, in this context, it is wise to deprive such a person of nationality. That's what I'm saying here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u143	Because I'm already predicting that we won't get a millimeter closer to each other, I'm interrupting one more time. I think Mr Van der Steur has quite understood that I find it hypocritical, to say the least, that he is calling for him to be the one who is at the forefront of protecting our rights and our values, while at the same time saying that people who have been punished on the basis of our Code of Criminal Law and have served their sentence are terrorists who do not really have rights. When you're out of state, you have very little rights. Mr Van der Steur knows this as well as I do. I find it incomprehensible that he can maintain these two things side by side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u144	I really feel that Mrs Gesthuizen is not fully aware of what we are talking about. An IS terrorist doesn't need to be part of a state at all. He only recognizes one state: the Islamic state. That is something that everyone and everything else must do, so all those who believe differently, who think differently, who believe that human rights are important and who think freedom of religion is important. All these people should preferably die. We are talking about such people. The VVD says that apart from all other measures you have in society, such as imprisonment and ways of getting people on the right path, for example deradicalisation, you have to check whether it is sensible and possible to deprive those people, given the seriousness of their ideas and behaviour, of Dutch nationality, even if the consequence is that they become stateless. I don't think there's a pin in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u145	I've got a whole pincushion here, so I'm gonna give it a try. This MP may one day be on the list as Minister of Justice, so as someone you expect to have a very high level of law. However, he follows two reasoning lines. One is: because a criminal himself does not need the rule of law, we, who do attach a great deal to the rule of law, are going to deprive him or possibly her of all rights. I find that an incredibly crooked reasoning. The other is: because we want to protect the rule of law, we have two categories of people. One consists of people who we do not deprive of nationality and the other of people to whom we will do so in a tailor-made approach. Surely that is not consistent with the statement that you attach so much to the rule of law that you want to maintain it? I can see another surprised look. Apparently, this isn't understood. How can you say that it is important for everyone to have a rule of law and at the same time that those who do not participate in our rule of law do not have those principles?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u146	Mrs van Tongeren means saying that criminals, criminals and terrorists should not be deprived of rights. That's actually the portee of her story. I would point out that it is precisely a part of the rule of law that you tackle people who do not want to comply with the rule of law and the rules in every way possible and, at worst, take away freedom. That is ultimately the consequence of having a rule of law. The second question is whether in certain circumstances you can deprive people of their nationality in order to show that you no longer need those people in your own country. The VVD Group answers yes, although it appears that we have a problem because of international agreements at a time when we could not see what the world would look like in 2015, namely in 1954 and 1961. The VVD Group therefore proposes to consider whether we can do something with these treaties in the light of today's society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u147	Mrs van Tongeren is trying to explain that when you speak from rhetoric about the importance of the rule of law, when you have a debate of principle that you think the rule of law is so important, you cannot also follow the reasoning: but if some people do not behave as we think they should, then we believe that banishment is appropriate. Then you need to talk about a life sentence, the toughest sentence you can put on that. You cannot say on the one hand that you think the rule of law is super important and on the other hand that it is okay for a certain category of people who happen to have two nationalities to banish them. Or you say, "I am terribly committed to the rule of law, and I take the consequences of that; if people are not punished for life, then I am going to re-socialize them properly and re-integrate them into this society, the principles of which I consider so important. Or you say like Mr Van der Steur: the rule of law, that's even a view, I care; we just banish people, just like in the Middle Ages. That's actually what the VVD stands for here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u148	I don't recognize this paraphrase of my position at all. I do not think the people who are following this debate can follow it either. I would remind Mrs Van Tongeren that, in our rule of law, we have been able for a long time to label people who have committed a serious crime in the Netherlands as undesirable strangers and to expel them from the country after serving part of their prison sentence. Mrs Van Tongeren now calls it "elimination," which should not be for a terrorist, but for a burglar or a "ordinary" murderer, Mrs Van Tongeren seems to be allowed to do so. People who commit war crimes have been evicted from our country on the basis of Article 1F for a long time, because we do not want such people in the Netherlands. The VVD Group comes here and says to the Minister: "Great Minister, would you be prepared to discuss at international level whether we can also deprive the nationality of someone who does not want to be part of our society in any way?" Then GroenLinks, together with D66, says: no, the rule of law opposes it. Then the rule of law also opposes all the other measures that do exactly the same and in the same way. One thing is certain: that does not make sense for the VVD Group. This applies not only to the VVD Group, but also, for example, to the United Kingdom, which is, in a way, one step ahead of us. A recent amendment to the British Nationality Act already accepts statelessness as a risk of terrorist behavior. That same risk of statelessness runs someone who joins a regular army of another state tomorrow. We have already discussed this in this debate. If you do that, you won't automatically get the nationality of that new state. An example of this is the French Foreign Legion. If you're a part of that, you lose your nationality, but it's a choice whether you want to qualify for French nationality. So you can also become stateless. We've accepted that for a long time. That is part of the treaties that we have had for a long time and also of our own law. I therefore repeat that I would like to ask the Minister whether the relevant treaties should not contain an exception clause for those who are violently opposed to freedom, society and the state. Is the Minister prepared to discuss this with the Contracting Parties? After all, they have the same problem that we have in the Netherlands and that is reflected in the British example I have mentioned. The VVD wants all relevant offences to be taken into account, if it is to be determined whether someone can be deprived of Dutch citizenship. It should therefore be laid down in this law that preparatory acts and acts of terror committed for the period of entry into force of the law are also covered by this law. The VVD is therefore satisfied that the Minister has amended the transitional right for this law to our request in such a way that it is possible to withdraw Dutch citizenship in the event of a conviction for offences committed before the law enters into force. So let us hope that with this law and the future adaptation of the relevant treaties it becomes even more clear than now that someone who becomes a member of a terrorist organisation is outside the free world and no longer has the right to feel at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u149	Mr Recourt has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u150	About all the groups in the Chamber have called for measures to be taken quickly. This law is now in the Chamber, but it's a state law. Does Mr Van der Steur know whether the other countries in the Kingdom, Curaçao, Aruba and Sint-Maarten, should also give separate approval to this law and how long it will take? If Mr Van der Steur does not know, shall we ask the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u151	If I remember correctly, Mr Recourt knows that I am replacing Mr Dijkhoff, we have also put this question in the report. I remember that the Minister also replied. The answer is therefore contained in the note on the basis of the report. Mr Recourt has got me. He's asking me over. I don't know the answer myself. I suggest that we ask the Minister to repeat what he has already written in the note on the report. I'll look it up myself as soon as I get back to my table. I will read it and, if necessary, I will give it to Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u152	Mr. Chairman. It has often been discussed today that the threat of jihadist terrorism calls for a firm approach, a smart approach and a comprehensive approach with both preventive and repressive measures. We have had extensive debates on this before, and today is only a very small building block from the total of that package. This small building block is not only limited in the legal sense but is also a small part of the overall action plan. Nevertheless, it has produced a great deal of talk, we can see today. It seems to me that we are now for the first time discussing when the Dutch can be withdrawn in the event of a serious crime. That whole discussion actually played a few years ago. This has already been incorporated into the law in 2010. Now it is really just a modest addition to that provision of law. I have noted that almost all the parties that have spoken so far have either asked whether the legislative proposal is going a little too far or whether it is going far enough. I believe that only the VVD has said so far that it is exactly as it is now. For a change, the SGP is one of the groups asking if it goes far enough. It made us feel a bit uncomfortable to see a package that wasn't actually asked for, while we were just waiting for another package. With the Dijkhoff motion, the Chamber has asked for a legislative proposal which, in any case, regulates the expiry of Dutch citizenship by law. It was an extension of the article with current forms of armed struggle abroad, for example participation in the armed struggle of ISIS. It should actually be dealt with in the same way as has already been properly regulated in our Code of Conduct by an amendment once tabled by the CDA with D66, in the case of entering foreign military service. We supported the CDA and D66 amendments, which were still in the firm time of D66, that they advocated this amendment at the time, in the sense that you should not want to see Dutchmen fighting against Dutch soldiers. It is clear that this does not require all kinds of complexity and that all legal nuances must be removed in order to determine whether or not it is proportionate. You just have to say clearly that in such a case it is clear and that the Dutchmanship is lost. There is also a neat provision in the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap that says that in a number of situations you can automatically lose the Dutch citizenship. We believe that voluntary participation in such an armed terrorist struggle abroad cannot be tolerated by the Dutch. For example, jihadist warriors who sow death and destruction should not normally be able to enjoy the benefits of Dutchity. We strive for the fastest and most appropriate solution to make the Dutchmanship lose in this situation. This proposal not only makes you dependent on an irrevocable criminal conviction, but also gives the necessary scope for a balance of interests. Why is that? Why are the original plans for tackling armed fighters abroad not immediately included in this bill? The motion asked for it and the government apparently has the will. It's been quite a while before this bill came. Moreover, it is a rather weakened form of what was requested in the motion. The Minister states that he considers the expiry of the law to be too legally vulnerable. He therefore does not intend to extend the expiry of the law, but rather to delete it altogether if necessary. That's still under review. I would nevertheless like to hear a more detailed explanation of that course. For why should the expiry of the law of law be vulnerable if, in the European Convention on Nationality, it is stated that the loss is automatically permitted in the voluntary service of foreign war? That treaty allows that, provided that there is no statelessness. The loss of rights from that treaty was subsequently incorporated into the Dutch Act in 2003. Moreover, that Treaty also states that conduct which seriously harms the essential interests of the State may constitute a ground for the automatic loss of rights. In short, why not just choose that route? The government refers, of course, to the opinions. The Rottmann judgment of the European Court of Justice gives rise to the automatic withdrawal of the right to lapse. We have looked at that very carefully. However, I would like to ask whether this situation is applicable now. The judgment is concerned with the withdrawal of nationality acquired by fraud and false information. There is no participation in armed struggle or other behaviour that seriously harms the essential interests of the State. This is also a situation in which there is a threat of statelessness in the judgment. The proportionality test appointed by the Court focuses to a large extent on the consequences of statelessness on this man and his family. Why is this particular case leading to the general abandonment of a rule of law which does not even cover the action of statelessness? Is this not an issue to be addressed in a wider European context? Apparently, the tension between what is now possible and what is not possible is felt in other countries as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u153	What Mr Van der Staaij is saying is very clear. If I have understood correctly, Article 15 of the Rijkswet on the Dutch Federation states that the Dutch Federation is automatically lost when you volunteer for a foreign military force and then go to war against the Netherlands. Mr Van der Staaij himself refers to that article literally. I can go a long way with that. However, does Mr Van der Staaij himself see the difference between, on the one hand, someone guilty of such a crime and, on the other hand, someone who the criminal court finds is a terrorist who has at any time participated in an armed struggle or facilitated such a fight? With the latter, it has not been said directly that the armed struggle has also been directed against the Netherlands. Does Mr Van der Staaij see any difference in this respect, which might perhaps lead him to look differently at the plea that the Netherlands should automatically be lost on the basis of a conviction based on Article 140a or 134a?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u154	Article 15 (1) (e) states the current provision we are talking about. It says "if he voluntarily enters foreign military service of a state involved in combat against the Kingdom." It is, moreover, about a state that is engaged in combat against the Kingdom. So it is not necessarily a question of this individual or this person being involved in combat against the Kingdom. I believe that the parallel is indeed valid, given the way in which ISIS is now operating and the fact that we are involved in combat operations there, with support from the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u155	So, according to Mr Van der Staaij, anyone who is currently participating in the armed struggle in Syria, for example, is currently also engaged in an act of war against the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u156	I believe that anyone who participates in the fight of ISIS, who is currently in the caliphate and who helps, in any way, should be told with as little nuance as possible that he or she can lose Dutch citizenship.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u157	I think that is an interesting observation. I hope that the Minister will respond to this in his reply. If we were to draw that conclusion, we would go one step further. I'd like to hear how the cabinet feels about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u158	I will continue my speech. Not only the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap raises questions. How does it relate to measures against terrorism that are now being taken? Countries such as Germany, Austria and Spain also have rules of law. The Netherlands could hang out with them. I would be pleased if we could now consider the issue of statelessness. I support the commitment of the VVD, and I also believe the CDA, to put this into question. We think it is an important starting point for preventing statelessness as much as possible. There's no misunderstanding about that. There are all kinds of treaties for that. However, exceptions have already been included in the Treaty, for example in the case of fraud. In the case of fraud there may be a loss of Dutch citizenship, even if this leads to statelessness. If this is possible in the case of fraud, why should it not be called into question in the most serious category of crime? I believe that this is important to know, also in the context of the debate on whether we treat people with dual nationality and those with a single nationality differently. I think it's one of two. Or you could say there might be a statelessness. Then you need to go through that line and be able to take that measure even if it leads to statelessness. Or you say: no, statelessness must really be prevented at all times. Then there are no similar cases and we should not talk any more about the fact that it would be discriminatory treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u159	I would like to come back to the possibility of people with one nationality becoming stateless. I know of no other examples than that the judge has constantly stopped doing so. This is true, for example, in a number of cases where Turkish Dutch men were deprived of nationality because of joining the Turkish army. The judge prevented this from being taken away from nationality. In the Hirsi Ali case, it never came to this. Does Mr Van der Staaij know examples in which the judge has approved that someone has become stateless?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u160	I do not know the cases in which Article 7 (3) of the European Convention on Nationality is applied, which seems to have deliberately left that possibility open in the event of fraud. It might be good to ask the Minister that question. I have seen situations that have also come to the fore in the publicity of the Court of Justice. An interesting question is whether there are also applications of Article 7 (3) of the European Convention on Nationality, where the court considered it acceptable. I think it would be a good idea to pass that question on to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u161	So that's what you're doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u162	Sure. Mr. Chairman. Finally. I indicated that this bill is only limited in scope, but it is very important that we ensure that our legislation is in order. And then not only on the issue of penalties - that is another subject - but also on the matter of the measure of depriving the Netherlands. We must operate within the limits of the rule of law, but we must not avoid any legal vulnerability in advance. We must take advantage of the opportunities we have within the rule of law to ensure the safety of our citizens as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u163	I give the floor to Mr Kuzu of the Kuzu/Öztürk Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u164	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the announcement. What group can say that to us? Violence unfortunately occurs in the world. What a man can do to another man is terrifying. Today it is exactly 23 years ago that in Azerbaijan Karabach Khojaly 613 people, of whom 83 children, were killed in a dramatic manner. Terrorists put a shovel on top of that. Not only do they commit violence, they cause people to fear and disrupt society. Today we are talking about a starting point with a package of measures and the proposed legislative amendment on the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. I'd like to start with a quote from Paul Scheffer, a professor we don't often agree with. Yesterday, during the round table on radicalisation, he said that if we want an equal society in which people are treated equally, it cannot be that people with dual nationalities are punished differently from those with a single nationality. We are in complete agreement with that statement. We are tired of the fact that dual nationality is being called into question and measures are being devised to create second-class citizens or 'Dutch light' on the basis of this discussion. That is what is happening here with the proposed legislative amendment to combat terrorism. Terrorists can and should simply be punished within existing laws. Even if they have not committed terrorist acts and have only prepared them, they can be thrown into prison for eight years. That's where they belong as far as we're concerned. However, taking away the Dutchmanship really does not make the Netherlands safer. I was under the impression that we are having this debate with the Minister of Security and Justice. We are not against punishing terrorists, we are against the double standards applied here. In doing so, we base ourselves on Article 1 of the Constitution: equal treatment is applied. We note that more and more parties for electoral gain and for party political reasons that are totally inimitable to the Dutch choose to ignore our constitution. After all, a terrorist of one nationality cannot be excluded from the Netherlands and, in such a case, after the removal of liberty, deradicalisation programmes and reintegration pathways are used, while the cabinet simply wants to rattle terrorists with a double nationality. The more severe punishment of Dutch people with dual nationality gives us, and many with us, the impression that the minister is a thorn in the eye not to be the terrorist but to have a dual nationality. In fact, it's very simple. Treat Dutch people equally for equal crimes. So just punish them the same way. The argument that the Netherlands should not facilitate terrorism in any way should apply to everyone, without distinguishing between people with one nationality and those with more nationalities. Moreover, this principle of equality is reflected in Article 26 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. It states that all are equal before the law and are entitled to equal protection by law without discrimination. In this context, the law prohibits discrimination of any kind. I would ask the Minister to explain why the Constitution and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights should be amended if this amendment is contrary to both the Constitution and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. In a special opinion on the present legislative amendment, the Court of Justice has also expressed serious doubts. Doubts about the effectiveness, proportionality and justice of the bill. However, the Minister continues to press ahead and leaves nothing to be desired from this opinion. He says that, in the current situation, unequal treatment of people with a single and double nationality is already taking place and that the Council should therefore not complain about this before the Court of Justice. You can expect a cabinet to come up with legislative proposals to get the double standards out of our law, can't you? In short, as far as we are concerned, the Minister is on a legal errand and is blind-minded, all in order to create the appearance of decisive action. In the aftermath of his career, we had expected from the minister more philosophical distance and wisdom. Apart from these fundamental objections to the nationality debate, this bill does not solve any problems. The terrorists who have not been convicted by the judge cannot be deprived of nationality anyway, and the number of convictions based on Article 134a of the Criminal Law is extremely limited. There were two convictions in 2013 and 15 cases were pending in 2014. And if you're already able to withdraw nationality, what are you going to do with that? First of all, it seems unlikely that such a terrorist would believe in his twisted ideals after years of reflection in a cell. If he still did, he would continue his twisted work illegally in the Netherlands, or outside the Dutch border. We are having a discussion here today about a dummy solution. That is a waste of time and sin of this whole debate. Showing muscle balls while ignoring the equivalence, justice and honesty is not a good solution, even if it is the muscles of Minister Opstelten. Hard repression without any respect for our fundamental principles, our fundamental conditions and human rights only exacerbates the problems. We saw this in American policy after the attacks on 11 September 2001. Apart from the fact that actions from the biceps rather than from the brain and the heart only cause more aggression, our fundamental values and the foundation upon which our country rests and the free west appeals for decades are being violated in a staggering manner. This violation of our fundamental values, whereby the cabinet wants to fight fire with oil, is not working. The violation of our constitutional values is like opening Pandora's box. Where's this gonna end? Are we seriously trying to create light by putting out all the candles hand in hand with terrorists? Think of Guantánamo Bay, Abu Ghraib, the disgusting torture methods of the CIA. Is that what we want: to subordinate our basic principles to the urge to get or stay on the plush? The Netherlands played a leading role in the field of human rights. We were the example. As we dealt with our citizens, it should also be in other countries. However, this seems to be a thing of the past, just like the previous sentence. Now Minister Opstelten takes a completely different path and follows the Dick Cheneys and Donald Rumsfelds of this world. Turn around while you can, for the path of the tough macho always leads to injustice and senseless violence. The State that wants to take away citizens who are involved in terrorism from the Netherlands reminds me of a hopeless father whose child is involved in a case that harms him, and who calls out that he no longer recognizes his child. By doing this, he wants to shuffle off his responsibility for the child. But just like the fact that the child remains his child, whether he wants it or not, this does not change the fact that he has been the breeding ground for what his son has become and that he is simply responsible for what he has created.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u165	I just heard someone applauding in the public gallery. You are very welcome in the public gallery, but the intention is to speak here without any sign of approval or disapproval from the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u166	Disaster is coming over us, so we hear. But then I'll see what we're talking about today: the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap. There are 60 offences on the basis of which Dutch citizenship can be prevented. Those crimes were committed in 2010 and earlier. Today, if the law is passed, one crime will be added. So nothing changes fundamental rights, human rights or anything else. You can agree or not, but it's already in the law. Is Mr Kuzu not having the wrong debate here? When I listen to him, I think I'm debating another bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u167	I think we're talking about the same bill. Mr Recourt has nothing to worry about. I'm trying to make it clear on what sliding scale we're on. This is the beginning, but there's a lot more coming at us. All this has been announced in the cabinet's approach. I'm worried about the gliding scale we're on. I hope that Mr Recourt will do the same. The fact that there are already 60 articles on the basis of which the Dutchmanship can be removed is not a legitimate reason to continue on that sliding scale?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u168	Now it's coming back into perspective. By the way, we are not going to step on that sliding scale today, because we are talking about the whole principle today, but we are seeing that this is already in the law. We're not gonna change that. I ask Mr Kuzu to take a critical look at the follow-up steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u169	I think today we are talking about a legislative change. I shall resume my speech, because I did not hear a question. Mr. Chairman. The essence is what is called for from politics. Political leadership is required. Not to be tough with absurd laws or legislative changes, but to work for concrete solutions. Not a language of hatred, but a language of reconciliation. Not to turn people against each other, but to reconcile people. That's not always funny. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, that sometimes also costs you a few votes, I also say to Mr Recourt. But does this mean that we should just let our morals slip? Should we welcome the idea that the Constitution has become a simple rag? Are we making it clear to the countries with which we are fighting terrorism together that it is mainly about cleaning up our own streets? No, let's set a good example and stop thinking the enemy and the macho. Let us be a tolerant society in which we treat each other fairly and harmoniously. What we ask of the Minister is simple: withdraw the proposed legislative amendment. We'll just throw the terrorists in jail. That's where they belong. Nothing more and nothing less.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u170	Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, the handling of this bill cannot be separated from the consideration of the bill announced in the Integrated Approach Action Programme for Jihadism. The Minister of Security and Justice has apparently discovered nationality law as an attractive legal instrument to tackle jihadists. The present bill provides that people who assist in preparing or committing terrorist activities may lose their Dutch identity, as essential interests of the Kingdom, be harmed. Letter of amendment proposes that this administrative measure should also apply to offences committed prior to the entry into force of this bill. In the coming legislative proposal, the Dutch Federation can be withdrawn without prior criminal conviction. The previous speaker mentioned the sliding scale. It is a trend that is of great concern to GroenLinks. Without difficult state safeguards for suspects, the Minister may block the return of the person concerned. It amounts to a direct power to banish and deny a right to oppose such an administrative measure. How is an effective legal guarantee to speak of, if you have to ask a Dutch judge from abroad for an opinion on the withdrawal of your Dutch nationality? How do you do that? Why has the Council of State not asked for an opinion on this last amendment? Other colleagues have asked for this. A step as far-reaching as taking away one's nationality requires extreme care. What guarantees do they have? Knowing this ruler, the temptation may well be very great to attach more importance to the public pressure to deprive the Dutchmanship. This is all the more true if that power may even be applied without prior criminal conviction. Independent administrative measures such as the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship are nicely fast and effective, because you can act outside the courts. If the central or local government takes an administrative measure, such as a street or contact ban, withdrawal of the passport or nationality, the person concerned must make his own way to the administrative court to seek an independent opinion on the legality of that government decision. That is already difficult when you are in the Netherlands, but that seems quite complicated to me when you are abroad without Dutch nationality. I would like an explanation from the Minister as to how you could still effectively defend your rights. The risks are similar. I already asked the governor what guarantees he offers against the public pressure. How is it foreseen that the procedure takes place carefully? How is it ensured that a proportionate and subsidiary decision is taken? Any public infringement of civil liberties must comply with principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. My colleague from the PvdA was also interested in this. As a government, you look for the most careful, proportionate and appropriate intervention. The question is whether the mere provision of aid for terrorist crimes is sufficient to withdraw a person's nationality. I would like the Minister to provide further support for this; why should that be the case? National law is not only national law, but also, above all, European legislation. Other colleagues have already raised this in detail. The European Nationality Convention only allows the loss of nationality in exceptional circumstances: on voluntary entry into a foreign force and on conduct which constitutes a serious threat to the vital interests of the State. In each individual case, it will be necessary to consider whether withdrawal is possible. It is entirely a question of whether political ministers, such as the Minister of Security and Justice, will be able to come to a careful and well-balanced judgement with all the political and public pressure that this entails. I'd like a response from the Minister. How would he like to do that in any case? How does he deal with the undoubtedly great public, media and political pressure? One more fundamental question: you cannot withdraw a person's nationality if one has only one. Colleagues have already said that the Netherlands has made a commitment to treaty law to avoid statelessness. Legal inequality arises if Dutch nationality is withdrawn from one jihadganger and not from the other. Doesn't the Minister agree with GroenLinks? In short, basically, you should not go without a judicial test and actually only after a criminal conviction possibly proceed to the withdrawal of a person's Dutch nationality. A light use of nationality law inevitably leads to its application as a punishment for exile. And in practical terms: they are in general our radicalised young people, young people who have been radicalised in the Netherlands. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, we will have to relate ourselves to them, and we should not say that these people are not our problem as long as they are in New Zealand, Australia, Turkey or Morocco and that they can find out for themselves. We have to uphold the Dutch rule of law, as my colleague from the VVD said. This "not in my backyard" policy is out of the question. As if we really don't care if ex-Dutch people refuse to attack elsewhere... The most appropriate measure comes from criminal law. These are criminal offences. The criminal court has the opportunity and the powers to find out exactly what happened and what didn't. Whose guilt of criminal offences cannot be proven, has the full right to prosecute his life in the Netherlands. Those who are found guilty must be punished, and as far as GroenLinks is concerned, they must be resocialised in the Netherlands. I'll finish with a few brief questions. Isn't this symbol law? How many convictions does the minister expect under this law in the coming years? Can the Minister explain to me why this is an effective means of countering terrorism and guaranteeing Dutch security, as the Minister will undoubtedly reply, at most once or twice in the next ten years? What is the Minister going to do to set up deradicalisation programmes better and faster? Previously, in other debates with this minister and with Minister Asscher, we talked about much better prevention, to counter the radicalisation of our own young people, who grew up here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-26-tweedekamer-8.u171	I thank the Minister for his presence and his listening ear. We intend to get his response next week.
