ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last Saturday, no less than 158 civil society organisations were called the alarm clock, including UNICEF, the Kinderombudsman and the General Education Association. Refugee children have little access to care and education in this country. My colleague, Vera Bergkamp, also called for a great deal of attention to be paid to these children last week. Particular attention needs to be paid to the psychological care of this vulnerable group. Several motions will be put to the vote this afternoon, which I commend to you all. Children need a stable base. It is not achieved by moving them over and over again. This applies to care, but also to education. I'd like to talk to the Secretary of State about that today. Many of the 10,000 refugee children do not go to school. This creates a very worrying situation, because these children also have the right to good education and have the right to develop. And no matter how you look at it, these kids are like no other victims of a terrible situation. Secretary of State Dijkhoff has asked for understanding of the lack of education. I do not understand that, and the cabinet should not ask me to do so either. The cabinet must resolve this situation immediately. The Secretary of State responsible for the education of all children in the Netherlands cannot just accept this. At least D66 doesn't. I therefore have the following questions. How many refugee children in the Netherlands are currently out of education? What is the Cabinet going to do to ensure that all these children receive education by the end of the year? And when does the bullshit with kids finally stop?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is quite clear, of course, that moving children in need of education does not contribute to their stability and the ability to organise education, especially in short-term care. That is what the government and the questioner are all concerned about. We are actually talking on a day-to-day basis about how we can best deal with this. Secretary of State Dijkhoff did not ask for understanding because this would not be a serious matter, but because it concerns such numbers that in some cases it is simply physically impossible to organise education in the very short term. Maybe I can give you the example of Heumensoord. At the emergency shelter, not so much in the asylum centre itself, 3,000 people were placed there in a very short time, including 600 children. This means that a school building with 46 teachers must be built there and that this must be done in a very short period of time. We do this by engaging in good conversations and establishing contacts with existing schools, so that teachers are attracted and supported, particularly in the field of post-traumatic stress and war trauma. I do ask for some understanding of the fact that it takes some time to get this organized in a somewhat good way for these large numbers. I realise that, of course, we need to work as hard as possible to make that time as short as possible, but sometimes it takes some time physically to organise the facilities necessary for children to receive education. Mr Van Meenen can be convinced that this is also very high on the agenda for my colleagues in Education and that there is also talk with the COA and with the schools on a daily basis. In view of the large numbers, however, it sometimes takes longer than we would like, but that is something that is also being worked on every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-3.u3	I don't have that conviction at all. I see all kinds of interesting notes, notes and notes, but I don't see any education for these kids. We may be talking about large numbers, but millions of children in this country are taught every day. I cannot accept it, particularly in view of the Court's previous statements, including an adopted motion of my hand on the deployment of unemployed teachers. I don't see any progress. Every day these children do not receive education is a lost day for them. What steps have been taken? How many teachers are at work by now? What's going on in that department? Anyway, I can get so mad about this. I want to know from the Secretary of State what the Cabinet is going to do to improve this situation immediately. Is priority given to families with children, for example, when they are placed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-3.u4	I understand that the Chamber will shortly have a general discussion with both leaders of Education, in particular on the issues of education and asylum. I think that Mr Van Meenen can also discuss many of his questions with both directors. It also has high priority to consider whether families with children can be placed as a priority. I would remind Mr Van Meenen that the numbers are so large that it simply takes some time to get the education organized. I would like to mention the example of Heumensoord, with 3,000 people, of whom 600 children. There will be very short-term buildings, teachers and training to ensure that education takes place. That is what we do in emergency care, when we would normally do it in the asylum-seekers' centre, where there is a school every time. So we can already see that the Ministry of Education is not waiting for an asylum-seekers' centre to be put in place, but that education is now being organized in emergency care, which is the first place in Heumensoord in order to prevent children from being deprived of education because they are longer in emergency care. So everything is being done about it. However, these numbers are so high that I am asking for some understanding that it sometimes simply takes some time to organise the facility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-3.u5	Again, I don't understand. That "some time" is long gone. I know from my own experience that you can realize emergency care very quickly, but also emergency schools, if you want. That should happen. I don't see enough activity. Those children are also not helped by the fact that we will soon be discussing this again in a general discussion. They have only been helped with a cabinet that really gives this the top priority. I'm sorry, but I don't see that happening. I don't have any further questions about that, just sadness.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-3.u6	I would like to point out that we are discussing customization and funding with the VNG in general and that we are making separate agreements with the schools concerned on the use of teachers and the handling of children suffering from war trauma. We are now even in emergency care organising education, in Heumensoord first, for 600 children. These are all activities that are absolutely top priority, precisely because we think it is so important that children receive education as soon as possible. I agree with the questioner that we really need to give this a high priority. To my taste, this is also done by colleagues from Education. You'll be speaking to them as a chamber soon. In any case, I do not recognize that this would be a priority for the cabinet, because all efforts, including those of both leaders of Education, are aimed at ensuring that, despite the large influx, there can be as much education as possible, even in a situation of emergency care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-3.u7	Perhaps it is an idea that Mr Van Meenen's unanswered concrete questions about what has been achieved so far are answered by letter in the run-up to the AA so that we can discuss them further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-3.u8	I think that is excellent, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-3.u9	For the PvdA it is central that these children who have experienced so much at a young age are given education as soon as possible, including additional language education and trauma processing. The letter we received for the Youth legislative consultation also states that this is a standing policy. However, we are also getting signals that some children have to wait a long time until they can go to school. Is the Cabinet prepared to take another step? In itself, the schools that are already organising it deserve a compliment, but sometimes the inspection is rather strict when it comes to putting teachers who are already retired, who are internship or unemployed, back in the classroom. Is the cabinet prepared to take a step further in this respect and to point out to the inspection that it too should cooperate in order to achieve this task with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-3.u10	For my part, I have not received a signal that supervision by the inspection would be an obstacle to being able to act quickly, but I would like to convey that signal to my colleagues, because where that can be done, there must of course also be tailor-made solutions for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-3.u11	Can the Secretary of State include that priority should also be given to placing families with children in emergency care rather than in crisis care? That is why they have to hop for so long and why they have not yet received education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-3.u12	In general: yes. Due to the large numbers, however, we now see that it is really usurping with capacity, every day. You want to be as brief as possible in the crisis shelter. You also want to be as short as possible in emergency care and as soon as possible to a shelter where you can just organize the business. I would point out that we are now setting the priority in such a way as to say that if emergency care is to last too long, we are going to see whether education can be provided there. I gave the example of Heumensoord. That is already a signal that we are not waiting until it is all going on, but that even in emergency care we are already finding facilities for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-3.u13	But the children who are in the crisis care phase will not receive any education. Every day that a child does not receive education, there is in fact a violation of the International Convention on the Rights of Children. My question to the Secretary of State is as follows. The main reason is that we are always sending people back and forth between the crisis response. We need to look at how we can ensure that more permanent forms of care are faster. Municipalities always indicate that they have more small-scale care on offer and that they can now quickly realize this care. I ask the Secretary of State if he wants to do so, because if that happens, it will mean that a lot of problems can be solved in the field of education and in many other areas too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-3.u14	In general: yes. Here again. The faster you get through, the sooner you can start teaching. I would point out that, in that situation, you also remain a little dependent on the location. Very often teaching is linked to the presence of an existing school in the vicinity, which at the same time provides training for asylum seekers' children. Once that location is a little further away, it's harder to realize. For example, you will have to organise a separate location or a separate building. In general, Mrs Voortman is right: as soon as possible from the crisis shelter, so that we can respond very quickly with education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-3.u15	It seems as if the cabinet thinks: the more we use the word 'priority' in our mouths, the more it is a priority for us. Unfortunately, that is not true, because the Secretary of State says: you should talk to the Secretary of State for Education in a while to see if these children can receive education; it is all so difficult. Then the government simply postpones it for itself. Let me give you one example. If you want to teach kids something, if you want to make them learnable, they must have processed their traumas. What does the Cabinet do? The cabinet uses online courses for teachers to work on trauma treatment in children. You can't be serious about this, can you, the Secretary of State for Health? When is this Secretary of State going to use youth workers to actually work on trauma processing, rather than offering an online course to teachers? This is really crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-3.u16	Just for the picture: there are two ways to take into account possible post-traumatic stress and war traumas in children. On the one hand, this happens in youth aid. Therefore, where children need care, it is provided, even when they are in an asylum procedure, as Mrs Siderius knows. On the other hand, if teachers are used to teach, it is very wise to continue to train these teachers where necessary and to increase their expertise in this field. It is therefore and-and: both in the area of care and education, work is being done on the issue of post-traumatic stress and war trauma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-3.u17	I'm gonna go back to the funding. We get signals from municipalities that there is also a bottleneck: if a class isn't fully occupied, it doesn't run smoothly with the funding to make it exploitable. I would ask the Secretary of State to take this point into account in the letter that Mr Van Meenen has been promised and to explain exactly what the policy is, and to reflect on what areas the policy might be improved so that schools and municipalities can be adequately funded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-3.u18	Yes, in advance, I think this is possible. There are two issues relating to funding. The first is whether as a starting school in this area you have to meet all the standards. Education colleagues have already made it possible to offer tailor-made solutions. So that has already been realized. The second is that some municipalities ask about the budget for financing housing. This issue has now been resolved for primary education. Education colleagues consult with the Ministries of the Interior and of Security and Justice to see if tailor-made solutions can also be found there. These solutions can undoubtedly be included in the preparations for the general consultation already planned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-3.u19	In any case, this government is to blame for waiting far too long to act. I will immediately ask for the figures for 2016. How many refugees can we expect and what are the financial consequences of this? We are now talking about education and care for children. Has there been any thought about whether there are adult refugee teachers who can teach refugees from their expertise as long as it cannot be arranged in a normal way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-3.u20	This Secretary of State doesn't know that by heart. What I do know is that everything is being looked at to ensure that children can receive education as soon as possible. This is already apparent from the fact that this is now being looked at in emergency care. By the way, we want the children who have a vision of staying in the Netherlands to be able to receive Dutch education as soon as possible, given the delays they have. I will pass on Mrs Keijzer's suggestion to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-24-tweedekamer-3.u21	Thank you for your answers and thanks for coming to the Chamber.
