ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome all those present, in particular the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start with the following. "Dear House of Representatives and State Secretary, I would like to make an urgent and emotional appeal to you, because do you realise to the extent that it is mandatory to continue working up to the new raised AOW age already, and certainly in the future, for many people, especially in heavy occupations, will become a possible too heavy physical and mental burden? That this will most likely also have adverse consequences for the Treasury, by increasing disability benefits and rising care costs? That there is more and more Dutch psychological damage caused by a severely disturbed picture of the future with major financial problems in the near future? Do you realize that, in addition to shifting the AOW benefits, additional damage is caused by continued AOW premium deductions and a higher tax rate for people under the AOW age? And that it is compulsory to continue working on unemployment, especially among young people, will not be able to increase in any other way? And that there is a large group of Dutch people who no longer have the opportunity to work longer to prevent an AOW-hole, because they often already have an obligation to retire early? Do you also realise to a sufficient extent that many of these groups, often from heavy occupations, have neither sufficient equity nor are able to save from their often only 70% last-earned pay, nor can they find a side job to close the AOW gap? And also that a number of people are not or hardly able to earn a living because of their physical condition? And that almost no former employer wants to recruit them again? The fact that there is a very poor, inadequate, but for very few access to SVB regulation does not help. Do you realise that, as representatives of the people, in addition to adopting laws and legislative amendments, you also have a responsibility to deal with their negative consequences as far as possible and should preferably do so at the same time as this new legislation? Please bear in mind that a very unexpected change in the law will only increase the current 65-plus-hole and cause people 33% more damage. I wish you wisdom, but above all social humanity in this assembly." That was a letter, signed by Mr Willem den Engelsman from Wolphaartsdijk, a state official with 38 years of service, for the most part in heavy duties, who now sits with an AOW-hole of twelve months and later sixteen months. I wonder what the Secretary of State's reaction to this letter is. Members of parliament have received many letters of the same kind. Achieving the 65 years was a milestone. It was the finishing line of the marathon of working life. For many people that finish line is still a long way away, but whoever sits right in front of that finish line now sees it move further and further back. This is the third proposal to advance the AOW age that we have received from the cabinet over the last four years. A lot of people see it as cheating, pushing the finish line during the game. It creates the image of an unreliable government. Now it is perhaps decided six months in advance that next year the AOW-age will go backwards by one month. I would point out that in 2012 the law stipulated that increases in the AOW age would be announced five years before date. Now we're talking about less than six months. That actually makes the cabinet double unreliable on this point, I ask the Secretary of State. The reason for the accelerated increase in the AOW age is, I quote, urgent budgetary problems. That was the reason to incorporate the acceleration in the coalition agreement of the VVD and the Labour Party. The whole of the Netherlands, however, has the idea that things are getting better. That image has been greatly strengthened during the election campaign that preceded the elections last week, in which the VVD and the Labour Party went on the road with that message. There is EUR 4 to 5 billion to do something about tax cuts, I read. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State what this urgent budgetary reason is for doing so. The Netherlands is assuming that it is going uphill again. At least that's what the government wants us to believe. I'd like to get a response. The accelerated increase in the AOW age in 2016 will generate 1.5 billion for the Treasury until 2019 due to fewer AOW benefits. So that money is being collected from the people who are on the eve of their retirement. The treasury may well be settled, although according to the government it was, but the household grant of many 65-plussers is in disarray. The 65-plus hole is getting bigger and bigger. As a result of this additional increase, people lose on average four months of AOW benefit and up to nine months. This affects 1.5 million 65-plussers extra heavy. There is still no solution for the heavy-duty professions. Proposals for this have been ignored by the Secretary of State. Many parties have insisted on this. Why does the government keep ignoring this? Why does the Secretary of State dig a hole for these people and doesn't she give them the means to close that hole? It's not just accelerating the increase in the AOW age. The partner bonus has been abolished. The Secretary of State's policy doesn't give us any indexing of pensions. Life after 65 becomes just as insecure as it is for Drees. Why does the Secretary of State want to be a reverse Drees or Suurhoff with all the violence?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u3	I hear Mr Ulenbelt talking about the hole being created. I wonder how the SP deals with the EUR 3.6 billion gap, including premium and tax revenues generated by this bill. How's the SP gonna cover this if she's so against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u4	I would refer Mrs Schut-Because of our election programme, which mentions a whole series of cuts in order to put the Dutch budget in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u5	Is Mr Ulenbelt making a concrete proposal to this effect? If he does not vote in favour of this proposal, as I conclude from his speech, does he have a concrete proposal to cover that huge hole of EUR 3.6 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u6	How about we start with the villa subsidy, the mortgage interest deduction of around 10 billion. How about we take some of that off? Then that hole of yours is closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u7	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u8	We got a letter yesterday from...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u9	Mr Ulenbelt referred to the SP election programme. Whether or not he supports this bill is, of course, entirely up to the SP Group itself. However, it would be so fair for him to acknowledge here that in the election programme of the SP, the age of AOW was increased to 67 in 2025.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u10	No, then Mr Van Weyenberg did not read our election programme properly. It says that, contrary to the pension agreement reached at the time, we want to reopen the consultation with employers and employees, who also had serious objections, to see where we need to get out of. Until 2020, we had definitively ruled out any increase in the AOW age. Then, in consultation with employers and employees, we would look at the state of the country to see if there are indeed deficits here and there. That AOW age has been pushed down our throats appealing to...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u11	I think this is out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u12	He wants to know; he's talking about 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u13	But it was about your election program.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u14	Mr Ulenbelt is standing here telling falsehoods. The bill says: in 2025 65- and 66-year-olds with a household income of €80,000 or more are cut the AOW. In 2025, all income groups face an AOW pensionable age of 67. In the counter-budget of the SP, no government measure in this area has been reversed. I'm fine with you having a different opinion. But then be a man and put that in your pieces; don't go here for free political business.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u15	Like many others, we also had the idea that there would be shortages in the labour market. That is what we wanted to discuss with employers and employees, and that is why this is included in the calculation. But, yes, I do not know if the D66 election program has eternity value, because anyone who looks out now sees that all the arguments in the vein of "no hands on the bed and no teachers for the class" do not go anywhere. In 2015, we were expected to lack 375,000 people. Look outside: more than 600,000 unemployed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u16	There is little that has eternity value. I will set up another tree with my colleague from the SGP, but not now. As far as electoral programmes are concerned, circumstances may change. But does Mr Ulenbelt now say that he is abandoning the plan presented by the SP in her election programme to bring the AOW age in 2025 to 67 years and to abolish the AOW for everyone above €80,000? That's what the SP thought two years ago, but not anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u17	Under the present circumstances, it is extremely unrealistic to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u18	I could have imagined that if that proposal had been in the SP election programme in 2008. At the time, conditions were very different: there was then the Bakker Commission, which predicted major shortages in the labour market. But in 2012 we were talking about "We saw that the 2008 predictions weren't quite right anymore. However, the SP has included this in its electoral programme. I just want to clarify where the SP is at this point. Do you say, "We distance ourselves from what we wrote down?" You don't want that anymore, because circumstances have changed. Is that right? What circumstances have changed exactly? Can you show me with a state what has really changed since 2012? Because I don't see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u19	Unemployment has only risen. We are now talking about accelerating the increase in the AOW age. As FNV and CNV rightly say, this means additional supply on the labour market, which is only bad for young people and older people looking for work. As far as the future is concerned, I have always said that the moment of increasing the age of AOW is only when we have real deficits in sectors. I have used the metaphor in the debates on this subject that, if the dikes are broken, even the people from the old people's homes will come to help. Well, that situation is absolutely out of the question. Increasing the AOW age, especially in this short term, should not be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u20	I refer Mr Ulenbelt to page 330 of Choices in Map, with the passing of the election programme on the basis of which the SP was chosen in this house. There's a cliff-and-ready, separate from the 67 in 2025, that on January 1, 2015, that's what it's been in the meantime, 65- and 66-year-olds with a household income, that's the income of both partners that's been cut by $80,000 or more 15% on their AOW benefit. And on 1 January 2016 it would be a household income of €72,000. That's how we're gonna lower down. I hear the SP now saying: we do not agree with that. How is that possible? Each year, the SP submits a counter-budget. And every year there is nothing in that about reversing the own AOW measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u21	It was about the discussion about raising the AOW age. That is not in the text that Mrs Vermeij reads.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u22	Then I read the first sentence: "The AOW age will be increased to 67 years in 2025." It's in there, Mr. Ulenbelt. Read it again. I can give it to you; I'll also give you a copy of page 330 of Choices in Map, with the passing on of your election program.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u23	This only brings me to the following sighs: if only the Labour Party had carried out its electoral programme in this cabinet. Then we would not have had this discussion and then the increase in the age of AOW would have shifted much further back. Instead of blaming me on this now, Mrs Vermeij should look more closely in the mirror and wonder what happened to her own election programme. Nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u24	Frankly, I find the way Mr Ulenbelt is running away a little easy. Let us assume the situation that the SP had now been in the cabinet, with the election programme that was written at that time. Then there was undoubtedly something included in the coalition agreement about at least the SP variant, with an increase to 67 years in 2025. Surely Mr Ulenbelt would not have been able to run away from that responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u25	If, if, if, if. I wish we'd been at that table. At least there wasn't the bill we're talking about today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u26	Yes, but I note that at that time there was no argument for the SP to say: we just wrote that election program; the ink is barely dry, and now we are not going to increase that age. It is indeed 'if-then': if we had gotten into that situation, then... But it is an important 'if-then', because an election programme applies for the whole period. If that situation had occurred, the SP would have defended an increase to 67 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u27	Our programme expressly stated, very emphatically, that we were moving away from a law which had been passed by the Chamber two months before the elections. We wanted to get back together with the Labour Foundation, with employers and employees, who were angry about that proposal, to achieve a decent and social solution. Somehow that had to be translated into credit transfers by the Central Planning Bureau. We have done so in this way. There was still plenty of time to simply, in proper consultation in the Dutch polder, come up with solutions that would make sense to everyone, including the SP. We had gone into the cabinet with that. I have answered the question as a result. Next time better: if we are, you'll see how we do it. I will continue my speech. Yesterday we received a letter from CNV and FNV with examples of the size of the AOW-hole. That can therefore be up to 24 months not an AOW, which people had expected. This morning in the Algemeen Dagblad there were a number of examples. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. She'll say there's a bridging arrangement. It is, however, completely inadequate. If a six months before you go with AOW you already meet the conditions, the maximum you can get is €763 net in the month. After all, the pension you would receive will be deducted from that scheme. For people who are able to get into this bridging arrangement, there are only a few of them, in the most extreme case, this means that they get €763 net for 24 months, while those people have fixed burdens. This isn't gonna cheer you up. The FNV and the CNV rightly call for the bill to be rejected. After all, how can you manage to send more people into the labour market at a time when unemployment, youth unemployment, is very high? The Human Rights College has examined a case concerning the 65-plus hole. The Ministry of Defence, according to the Human Rights College, is guilty of age discrimination by ending early retirement for people who are 65 years old, while others do not. The conclusion is clear: according to the College of Human Rights, those who have to leave their employer are entitled to compensation up to the age of AOW. Why does the Secretary of State stop this age discrimination, which is also at issue in many other sectors? This proposal has nothing to do with an ageing population. It also has nothing to do with labour market shortages. It is a hold in the cash of people who have almost ended their working lives, who have themselves worked towards security and now face very great uncertainty. They judge that as theft, as robbery. I hope that there is still some humanity with the Secretary of State and that she will come up with a significant improvement in this transitional arrangement, the starting point being: who has stopped, can request bridging, so that he comes to the level of an AOW that is still in existence. I'm asking the Secretary of State to withdraw the bill, to stop chasing people into the labour market. Because, Secretary of State, the budgetary need for this is no longer there, is it? If there is a budgetary need, then the Labour Party and the VVD have been saying strange things in election time. I'm closing up. Drees and Suurhoff wanted to offer security. The Netherlands was happy with that. They received beautiful letters when they introduced the AOW. This bill removes the AOW for a lot of people. Secretary of State, please avoid going into history like a reverse Drees and Suurhoff. Expand the bridging arrangement, so Willem den Engelsman can go back to sleep.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u28	I have great respect for Mr Ulenbelt because he always conducts the debate with open eyes, no matter how often I disagree with him. Today, however, he is making a mess of it. He's running away from his election program. He's running away from his counter-budget. Apparently it doesn't count anymore, because in it the AOW age went to 67 and the cabinet policy wasn't reversed. I have a very simple question for Mr Ulenbelt. I assume that we will get another counter-budget from the Socialist Party for the 2016 budget. I understand from him that 65 is going to be 65 again, as the SP likes to say, and that all the measures will be reversed, with the corresponding coverage. Did I indeed understand Mr Ulenbelt so well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u29	If I can get the help of Mr Van Weyenberg, the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u30	What a lame answer! I do not need Mr Ulenbelt's help for my own party. He doesn't need mine either. Is he going to reverse all these increases in his counter-budget, as he promises the people who are following the debate now? Is he gonna do that? I think a clear yes or no to that question is perfectly possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u31	We shall repeat the maximum I repeat: we shall do the maximum to achieve this. In 2008 and 2010 we were told why people should continue to work: there would be no teachers in the classroom anymore and the buttocks in the nursing homes would no longer be washed. That's all bullshit, bullshit, turned out to be. In this respect, there is therefore no reason to increase the age of AOW.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u32	"Rubbish" was a good choice of words in parliament. The other word you used, I thought was less appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u33	You're well aware of that, Mr. Chairman. Mr Ulenbelt's determination here must be seen in relation to the activities of the SP in this area in recent years. Indeed, the electoral programme contains the necessary text, but the pass-through did show an AOW increase in age, income-dependent from 2015 onwards and from 2025 onwards for everyone. In the campaign, Mr Roemer said that we were forced to do so because all kinds of other plans had not been properly calculated. Mr Roemer then said that it would be reversed. That was then not done in any proposal or in any counter-budget. If you yourself as a party have such a line in recent years, I find it complicated that Mr Ulenbelt is again pretending that the SP is going to do so now, while the actions of recent years have shown that the SP is not doing so at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u34	I understand incredibly well the interest in the 2012 SP election programme. I also understand the discussion about 2025. But we are dealing with this issue now: the Secretary of State's bill to raise the age of AOW. I ask why this is now necessary and I ask the Secretary of State, if she wishes to continue to do so, to come up with a comprehensive bridging arrangement to meet the people. That is what this debate is about. We have had this debate. We're gonna do that again next time. I'll ask the MPs to look around. More people are being hunted into the labour market here. This leads to additional unemployment among young and old.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u35	I think that various parties in this House will be asking questions about this bridging arrangement during this debate. This has already been done in the written round. Yes, the bridging arrangement that is now in place is given that acceleration briefly. But Mr Ulenbelt presents an image here as if the SP has always opposed the increase in the AOW age, which has never wanted and is certainly against it now. But what the SP indicates in election programs, in bills and in counter-budgets is something else. It would be a credit to Mr Ulenbelt if he were simply to come out more openly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u36	I have had these debates on increasing the AOW age for the SP. I have always said: if there are deficits in sectors, it may be on the agenda. That's what the Dutch want. I have mentioned examples of this. When the dikes break, the people from the old people's homes also help to lay the sand on the dikes. But that necessity wasn't there at the time. Actually, there's a lot less of them now. If there is such a need in the future, then that is what we are talking about. With employers and employees in the Netherlands, we will solve the labour market shortages.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u37	The parties in parliament have different interests and views of substance, but they should have one shared interest: the prestige of politics and the confidence of citizens in politics. I think that's harmed if you're a government...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u38	I would ask the people in the public gallery not to interfere with the debate. You may find what you want, but you cannot let that be heard in the public gallery. That's how we agreed. I give the floor to Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u39	It would be an addition to the debate if it were allowed, but as long as the rules are so, unfortunately, that is not possible. I think we have a common interest. That interest in keeping faith in politics, or sometimes restoring it, is at risk if you are unreliable as a government. But it's also in danger if political parties promise things they can't live up to. And that bothers me, Mr Ulenbelt. Because what you are saying in so many words is that this AOW increase in age should actually be reversed. If your colleagues ask if you are actually going to do so when you are in that position, or if we are going to see it in the plans that the SP will produce in the coming period, then the answer to that question is vague. And I'm afraid the answer to that question will eventually be no. That too, Mr Ulenbelt, undermines people's confidence in politics: empty promises that you cannot keep.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u40	If only we had had the opportunity to implement our electoral programme. You'd have seen it. Now you're talking about a past and a future. You even make the reliability of politics dependent on what I am about to do. You are quite right to be laughed at in the public gallery. You can't blame us for that. If we have the opportunity, we will make our words come true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u41	It's not even about being on the spot and making those words come true. Maybe I can give you an example. My group believes it is important, for example, that the gas tap in Groningen be turned off, just like Mr Ulenbelt's group. That is what we are proposing. They are painful, because if you really want to do that, it also means that the tax will have to be paid by those people on energy. But those are choices we make. With this we show what we have left to turn off the gas valve for example. If Mr Ulenbelt says here that the increase in the age of AOW should be reversed, there will be consequences. Then he'll have to solve that in other places in the budget. That's what he's suggesting. It's not even about whether he's gonna realize it in a new cabinet. No, he's gotta make proposals for that himself. I have never seen Mr Ulenbelt's proposals. Never. He has great words, but no concrete proposal that has a sense of reality. That is what I challenge him to do. Come on, Mr Ulenbelt, start the debate on this rather than just talk big and actually have a cheap chat.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u42	Your question is clear. Mr. Ulenbelt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u43	I didn't hear a question. And what we come up with, Mr. Klaver will see. The increase in the AOW age is now one month and next time two months. I hope there will be elections this year. Then Mr Klaver will see what we are proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u44	I will make an attempt to get Mr Ulenbelt out of the fire. The PVV and the SP agree that 65 years is and should remain a very good retirement age. We have also earmarked billions for this in our counter-budget. That costs a lot of money, but we did and the SP did not, when I listen to colleagues like that. How did we finance that? By taking on this massive mass immigration. This mass immigration, the arrival of tens of thousands of lucky seekers in the Netherlands, costs billions. Why isn't the SP looking for it in there? Why doesn't the SP continue to finance 65 by tackling mass immigration? And why does the SP also allow open borders to exist?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u45	I refuse to discuss mass immigration with Mr Madlener, while the issue we are discussing here is: what happens to the income of people who go over 65? I reject that. That's what this is about. In the election campaign, I am going to speak with Mr Madlener again on these issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u46	What is at issue here is not whether 65, 65 should stay, because we agree on that. The question is, how is the SP gonna cover that? Mr Ulenbelt rightly receives all kinds of questions from colleagues: how is the SP going to pay for this? I am now doing Mr Ulenbelt a hand-picking. I say do it like we do and close the borders for lucky seekers. That's where we can pay the 65. So it is an attempt to help Mr Ulenbelt, but I do not think that the SP wants to take over this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u47	In the discussions on the increase in the AOW age, we pointed out that rising tax revenues on pensions are more than sufficient to allow the increasing use of the AOW pension scheme because that is indeed what we are able to pay. That increase would not have been necessary for us at all. There are places in the Netherlands where you can get money. There are billions going to banks that are in debt. It's possible. If this results in 65-plussers being put in debt, we reject it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u48	Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS thanks the Secretary of State for answering her questions. In parallel, I will deal with the consequences of this legislative proposal, its necessity and desirability, its employment effects and the issue of life expectancy, and finally with the transitional financial arrangements. What are the consequences of this bill? There is an average income loss of almost five months and up to nine months of AOW. This proposal affects 180,000 to 240,000 pre-retirement people. In addition to the nearly €20,000 that some people may already lose due to the previous increase in the AOW age, this bill could bring an additional €8,000 for single people, for example. FNV and CNV even talk about €9,000. The bill is, in fact, a one-off hard cut. The proposal does not affect the long-term sustainability of public finances and does not have a structural impact on employment. Then what does the bill do? This bill will make 300,000 people retire later. The AOW expenditure is occasionally reduced by a total of almost 3 billion over a period from 2016 to 2024. The accelerated increase in the AOW age is a austerity measure mainly driven by the economic crisis and the state of public finances in 2012. 50PLUS therefore has doubts about the urgency of this bill, especially at this time. Last year's CPB Study on Less Care for Ageing sets out the contribution, inter alia, to the long-term sustainability of public finances by increasing the age of AOW and the austerity of the Witteveen Framework. The analysis of the CPB shows that the sustainability balance is reversed on the basis of policies deployed and planned from a deficit of 4.4% of gross domestic product in 2010 to a surplus of 0.4% in the long term. According to the CPB, the public debt may even be fully repaid around 2080 and then converted into a capital. Well, what a prospect. We ask the Secretary of State, as well as theoretical exercise, what this image would look like if we, on the basis of the healthier public finances of this moment, as preached by VVD and PvdA, completely renounce this bill. Does this mean that public services will no longer be sustainable or significantly less affordable at any time in the foreseeable future? We ask her to provide a thorough basis for this. If there was a need for this particular bill, you could think about it. However, the need for the measure must be demonstrated in a targeted way, even though this legislative proposal has a very profound impact on many people in a limited age group, namely those born between 1951 and 1955. Our impression is that dropping this bill has a fairly small impact on the sustainability of public finances in the medium term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u49	I think Mr Krol is right on that last point, because this bill does not do anything about the sustainability of public finances, because it does not yield any structural returns. However, Mr Krol also pointed out a number of measures taken to ensure that public finances are in order or sustainable. It's a bit of a technical story, but it's whether we can still pay for our care and our facilities for our children and grandchildren in the future. The cabinet, together with other parties, has had to take some difficult measures. Does Mr Krol recognise that these measures were necessary? He says that public finances are now sustainable and that we do not need to do this anymore. Is he then glad with retroactive effect that public finances have been made sustainable?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u50	We're talking about another subject here. We're talking about the accelerated increase in the AOW age. That's what I want to focus on. If I have to go through all the proposals that have been passed over recent times, one by one with Mrs Schouten, we will be here at 8.15 p.m. tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u51	Mr Krol is right to say that I was deliberately saying to him just now that this bill does nothing for the sustainability of public finances. He also says that public finances have already been made sustainable. That's his argument. I fully agree with him, but I also ask him whether he recognizes that this is due to measures he has opposed in the past. Is he, however, glad that these measures have been taken with retroactive effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u52	I'm afraid this is mainly due to foreign influences. If they have been beneficial, then we have an advantage. But I very much doubt that this has to do with measures taken by this cabinet. 50PLUS is convinced that this bill, especially in the short term, reduces people's chances of finding a job. There are now 633,000 unemployed. Unemployment is barely falling. Especially many older people are in the WW and in the welfare system for a long time and are barely getting out of it. Some 300,000 people will retire later, because they will have to work longer in many cases. Surely this should lead to problems in the already tight labour market? Can the Secretary of State demonstrate that there is no disturbance in the labour market? What is it going to do to monitor labour market effects and prevent undesirable effects?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u53	I would like to receive a response from Mr Krol to what is stated in the note to the report, namely that there is no displacement of older people by young people or young people by older people on the labour market. It also says that it leads to more work, if more people are present on the labour market, so if more older people are offered. How does Mr Krol feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u54	I assume that many letters and reactions from all over society have also been received by the VVD. It is quite clear that there is a difference of opinion. That's why I tell the story the way I tell it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u55	Mr Krol may think otherwise, but he also quotes the CPB report. He says that it says that there is really no problem at all and that all the problems will be resolved in the future. Does he realise that the CPB notes assume that the AOW age is indeed being increased and that more older people are offering themselves on the labour market? It is therefore not a question of negligible amounts, as Mr Krol points out. This amounts to EUR 3.6 billion in savings and additional tax and premium revenues. How will Mr Krol cover that in the medium term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u56	You can find cover for that in all kinds of ways. I find it sad that there are parties in the Chamber who try to take the money away from people who can hardly miss it, but that the big banks can easily get away with things. 50PLUS, I would like to say once again that priority must be given to combating youth and older people's unemployment. In particular, the fight against older people's unemployment needs to be stepped up. We must first get people from a bridge to the labour market back to work. We need to increase the gross employment rate of 65 miners. We also need to make more work on training and training of sitting staff. Given the tight labour market at the moment, according to 50PLUS, apart from the Treasury, nothing or nobody will benefit from this bill. 50PLUS notes that this bill applies a uniform regime to accelerate the increase in the AOW age, while age expectations for lower-skilled and lower-income people are four to five years lower than those of higher-skilled and higher-income people. This bill therefore leads to further disadvantage for the less educated, and that is usually also the people with lower incomes. They are forced to work longer on balance, while less justification can be found in a higher average life expectancy. A flexible AOW age can provide a solution to this acute problem. 50PLUS understands that the government sees more disadvantages than benefits in the flexibilisation of the AOW age, but that does not mean that we should leave those people in the cold. How will the Secretary of State meet people with the statistically lowest life expectancy? As far as 50PLUS is concerned, it is high time to implement this part of the pension agreement for low-income people. There must be a good solution for them. In this context, we ask for a reply from the Secretary of State to the article by Yvonne Adema, Jan Beankamp and Lex Meijdam of 20 March last. It bears the telling title "Why a flexible AOW is a good idea." Again, the note on the report sets out in detail that there is a good and fair bridging mechanism to help close the AOW gap which is growing in part through this legislative proposal. However, the signals we get and the comments we read indicate an arrangement that only very limited the gaping AOW-hole closes. It's a minimum-level arrangement. People with savings of any size can't claim them. They can make thousands of euros, up to two years of AOW. In short, this bridging arrangement is nothing more than a tissue for bleeding. 50PLUS sees it as a disproportionate attack on the property right that is the AOW benefit. The government sees this differently. Then what does the cabinet say to the people who are outside the bridging arrangement? "Are you going to work longer?" Or: "Do you speak to other sources of income?" Yeah, throw it in my hat; that's how I can do it. We ask for a detailed explanation and a thorough justification from the Secretary of State for this financial discharge for many thousands of people. I'll close up and sum up briefly. As you now understand, 50PLUS has serious reservations about the usefulness and need of this bill under the given economic conditions and the current state of public finances, as the government has claimed. In the long term, it hardly contributes to the structural sustainability of public expenditure. The consequences for many thousands of people are profound and the employment effects are currently totally undesirable. Moreover, the proposal is unfair to those with lower education, who often have low incomes and on average reduced life expectancy. The transitional arrangements are still inadequate. The AOW has already been considerably reduced by the previous increase in the AOW age compared to the countries around us. Should this bill continue if the price to be paid for it is so high? We say, weighing everything up and as things stand, no to this bill, unless the Secretary of State comes up today with some very good and, above all, new arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u57	It may be a detail, but I do appreciate the fact that this debate is about facts. Mr Krol referred to "a savings fund" in relation to the bridging allowance. I will also ask a large number of questions about this in my contribution. But I would point out to him that the exemption for single people is €21,330 and for partners at €42,660. In addition, for self-employed persons there is an additional exemption of more than one tonne. In addition, the own house and pension assets do not count. I would like to know from Mr Krol whether he calls that "a savings fund."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u58	Unfortunately, a lot of people have not spared that, but the people who have spared it have worked very hard for that for a lifetime.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u59	Mr. Chairman. In preparing this debate, I had to remember 2012. Then we had a memorable debate on the increase in AOW age and on the final link to life expectancy, which was also part of that bill. I remember that the PVV and SP in particular needed a lot of time to do so. It was rightly a very extensive debate, because it was about a rather large legislative proposal. The increase in the age of AOW had not happened for a very long time, whereas, as we have said several times in the debate, Mr Drees himself indicated at the time of its introduction that it would not be self-evident that those 65 years would last 65 years. At the time, we also firmly agreed to an increase in the AOW age and ultimately to a link between the AOW age and life expectancy, starting from 2023. We had agreed on a careful course for that. We have also been part of the basis of this process and we have really been looking for what good steps would be to give everyone the chance to come along, because raising it all at once would have a lot of consequences. We also discussed this at length at that time. Now there's a new bill on the table. This bill makes the path we have agreed on to link the AOW to life expectancy faster, with the reason public finances. Does the Secretary of State, Mr Delors, recognize that it has already done so in all the documents, answers and arguments that this bill does not yield structural results? We have already taken the fundamental step: linking the AOW age to life expectancy. This was crucial, including for the sustainability of public finances. Does the Secretary of State acknowledge that this bill does nothing about it for the rest? A bridging arrangement was also agreed in the social agreement in 2013. That scheme was based on the current legislative proposal, the current path, so 2023 linked to life expectancy. Now there is a legislative proposal that accelerates this path and that also comes earlier to that link with life expectancy. What does that mean for the social agreement agreement? We are always talking about 'we cannot change things, because it has been agreed in the social agreement'. I can imagine that this does not apply to this point. The social partners - we have all had the letters - have agreed a bridging arrangement on the basis of an old law. Now there will be a new law in which there will be a gap. Does that mean that the agreements in the social agreement are no longer being followed? I would be interested to hear the views of the Secretary of State and whether she has been in contact with the social partners on this matter. The bridging regime is not modified by this new bill. What choice has this made for the cabinet? Has any consideration been given to rethinking the bridging mechanism in relation to the said acceleration? I get the impression that nothing has been done about it. Is that right? If so, does the Secretary of State intend to look at that after all? I can imagine that this could reduce the nasty effects of this bill. The crux for my group is being a reliable government. In 2012, as part of the legislative proposal at the time, we agreed that a change in the age of AOW would cover a period of five years. We would announce that in time so that people could anticipate that increase in the AOW age. Two years after that legislative proposal, there is now a change that does not have a five-year deadline. That is difficult for my party, I'm just saying here. That is why we have great difficulty with this bill. The fundamental step has been taken, namely linking to life expectancy. We have agreed on a careful route and there is a bridging arrangement. And now there's a bill that goes through those things all at once. That is an element which my group does not really have to deal with. If we have to take difficult steps in this Chamber, then we must also take them, but we must also be consistent in our policies. I have the impression that the latter is not the case with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u60	It sounds to me like music to the ears what the Christian Union brings in. Does this also mean that you will withdraw the support for the cabinet? Of course, you can do a lot more than just vote against it. You know that a vote against from us, from you and from the SP is not enough to stop this, but what you could do is say behind the scenes in your office: we do not accept this, because we did not agree to this. Where you speak of an unreliable government and you think this is a really important point, are you going to negotiate with the cabinet behind the scenes and are you going to block this? Are you gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u61	We have not supported several legislative proposals in this Chamber, which have been put forward by the cabinet. I refer, for example, to the lending system and the distribution of profits in the care sector. We have reservations about the substance of all these issues. They are also subjects in which we have done our best to get them off the table. We have done so in this Chamber too. We fought for it. We do not support this bill for the reasons I have also mentioned. We have agreed on this path, and we must now stick to it. I note that a majority in the Chamber is in favour of this now. I'm sorry, it wouldn't have been my route. However, we do not immediately say on all the issues we disagree with, that we no longer support the issues we agree with. That is not our line in parliament. What is good and what is good, we can support. What is not good and what is not good, we do not support. That is also the case here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u62	This is a little too easy. You're a tolerating partner. That means that you have made an agreement and supported a number of things, including things you did not agree with. My question is whether you will continue to tolerate this, even now that this bill is going to make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u63	It is not true that we have supported things that we did not agree with. That would also be a bit complicated. We have used our position to improve the legislative proposals that were really bad or, in some cases, to get them all out of hand. I see here, as was the case with the loan system, that there are other parties who will make sure that the bill does. You are as much parliamentarians as I am, Mr Madlener, to know that we can stand on our head, but that a law simply goes through from this Chamber if there is a majority for it. Most of all, I can only mark our position. And then I can come to a conclusion, Mr President. We do not think that this bill is necessary for the reason that we have taken steps in principle. We believe that a government should also follow the path agreed upon, which is also stated in the law that the next change is after five years. The structural yield is zero. Let's just not do this and make sure people know what they're up to, even in terms of raising the AOW age.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u64	Mr. Chairman. People's life expectancy is rising much faster than we ever expected. Since the introduction of the AOW in 1957, life expectancy has increased by five years. Because of our good health care and the development of medical technology, life expectancy increases by another five years until 2060. In practice, 65-year-olds live much longer because they take advantage of the developments in medical technology after their 65th. We need to respond to these developments to make the AOW sustainable. This proposal contributes to this in the medium term, as it stabilises expenditure on the AOW until 2019. It is justified that the AOW age is accelerated. Cumulatively, this bill, including the additional tax and premium income, will yield EUR 3.6 billion until 2024. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats would have preferred this proposal to be submitted to the Chamber two years earlier. The acceleration of the increase in the AOW age to 67 in 2021 was announced in the media at the start of the cabinet in 2012 and there is no doubt about this on the website of the Social Insurance Bank. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how she will actively inform people about their exact AOW age. For those who have not been able to prepare for the increase in the AOW age when they retired early, we have indeed agreed on a bridging arrangement. That arrangement is now available to more people than was originally envisaged in the coalition agreement. People with an income from an early retirement allowance of up to €3,000 per month Mrs Vermeij already mentioned it and people living together with an additional pension of up to €4,500 per month can get AOW for bridging. However, little use has been made of this in 2013 and 2014, but the major step towards a six-month increase in the AOW age for 171,000 people is still to come by January 2016. So there's a good chance that people will still use the bridging arrangement if they need it. Many pension funds have already closed this AOW-hole. However, they cannot close this gap to accelerate the increase in the AOW age because the law does not appear to be equipped for this purpose. To this end, Mr Vermeij and I have tabled the amendment on item No. 9 submitted. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. The VVD looks to the future to sustain the sustainability of the AOW also for future generations. The bridging regime also applies to the people affected by the accelerated increase, which runs until 2019. The VVD therefore believes that it is up to the next cabinet whether we continue this bridging arrangement, because the burden of that arrangement will also be placed with the next cabinet. There are parties here in the Chamber who are in favour of covering the extension of this arrangement from 2019 to 2023 with debts from a subsequent cabinet. The VVD is not involved, because as we all know, there is no free money. We have read in the note on the report that this costs 48 million. That's a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u65	I think that is a bit of a cheap solution, Mrs Schut-Welken. You're saying we're gonna speed up the AOW age. Then it is also logical that the bridging regime should be extended to ensure a reasonable bridging as people have not been able to prepare for this. Now you say that the next cabinet can decide whether or not to extend it. But wouldn't it make much more sense if we were to speed up the AOW age so that we would immediately proceed with this extension to give people much more certainty and not the "slide-out policy" as you suggest: let's look at it through the next cabinet, because it is now until 2019 and we'll see if we're moving it to 2023? Isn't that much more logical?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u66	On the contrary, Mr Klein. You come up with a cheap solution, because you want to extend something but don't pay it yourself. You don't cover it yourself, you leave those bodies in the closet for the next cabinet. The VVD doesn't belong to that. We have organised this arrangement until 2019, so for this cabinet and for a few years after. The VVD is a trustworthy party that really only spends the money we have at our disposal and not the money of a next cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u67	Part of it is of course already done. When we talk like this, all public finances and all the measures taken by this cabinet are, of course, also focused on the future, on the resilience for future generations, which I consider to be a very good argument in itself. But then it is very cheap to do nothing about the 48 million over the period 2019-2023 in this case because that would be a weakness offer. On the contrary, we agree that we are going to do something like this, and then, of course, we ask the Cabinet to develop good policies there with cover and to be a reliable government on this point. Let us not keep a cheap story that we do not do this now because we do not want to transfer debts to the next cabinet, when you do in many respects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u68	I do not agree with Mr Klein. The cabinet cannot provide cover for this, because it is a measure that falls only in the period 2019-2023, i.e. after the term of office of this cabinet. So there can be no cover, because this cabinet just isn't about that. Every solution Mr Klein makes up is not there. There's no cover, because this cabinet can't arrange that. Mr Klein has come up with a cheap solution, because he does not offer cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u69	I am pleased that the VVD recognises that this acceleration of the increase in the AOW age is purely a financial austerity measure to put public finances in order, so to speak. We hear that more often from the VVD. But why is the VVD always the first to be ready to transfer cheques and post-taxes from Brussels? Why does Greece only have to squeak once and the billions go back from the Netherlands to Greece? Why doesn't the VVD choose our people here and keep letting our money disappear to Greece and Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u70	We are talking here about accelerating the increase in the AOW age. The VVD stands to take these measures to finance all kinds of things that we want in Dutch social security. It is a lot of measures which the PVV is also in favour of. When we take measures that cost money, those of the VVD must be properly covered. That's what the interrupting debate with Mr Klein was about. I don't agree with coverage for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u71	I understand. This measure takes the VVD because it yields money. The total amount involved, I believe, is 1 200 million, so 1.2 billion over the next four years. Of course, we are getting an increase in unemployment for that; that is also in the documents. Why does the VVD choose to always be ready for cheques from Brussels? They all have to be paid. If Greece squeaks once, the VVD is already ready with billions. But our own people are bleeding the VVD for that. Why have the pensioners and the people who are about to retire become the closing point of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u72	The VVD is in favour of solving the problems we find on our way. If everyone lives ten years longer in 2060 than in 1957, then we cannot insist that we keep the AOW age at 65; then it is necessary that people continue to work longer if they can. I know the PVV runs away from that, but the VVD doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u73	I ask the people in the public gallery to refrain from commenting. I do so because all Members of Parliament must be free to share their views in the debate. I would ask the people in the public gallery once again to give the Members of Parliament that space. There are many other times when they can talk to Members of Parliament and say what they think, but not during the debate. Members of Parliament have the right to exchange views freely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u74	I have two questions for Mr Schut of the VVD Group about the bridging allowance. The current scheme runs until 2019. So that is already over the current period of government. Mrs Schut says that 48 million is a lot of money, and I agree with her, but the revenue from this bill amounts, depending on how you calculate it, occasionally 2.9 or 3.6 billion. How does an amount of 48 million relate to these revenues?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u75	Indeed, this arrangement has gone to 2019, different from what is stipulated in the coalition agreement, also as a result of the social agreement. The VVD has given its approval to this. We have taken measures to accelerate the increase in the AOW age, which will bring EUR 3.6 billion. You cannot use some of those proceeds that will also fall in another cabinet period. I don't think that's a reliable policy. That's putting a body in a closet for a future cabinet. The VVD doesn't belong to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u76	Mrs Schut herself said that there are also people who have not been able to prepare, because they were already in an early retirement scheme. These people are now faced with an increase again and therefore, as it were, they are facing a double AOW-hole. We have previously agreed that we will create a bridging allowance for this, of course with a number of conditions. So the VVD now says "we don't do that next increase."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u77	In the media, when the Rutte II cabinet took office, it was widely announced that the age of AOW would be accelerated. It is people's own responsibility to learn about it. Due to the late treatment of the law and the many emails the VVD has received about it, we also see that many people have questions about what their exact AOW age is. That is why I asked the Secretary of State how it will promote people's awareness of their AOW age.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u78	Mrs Schut is clear, but for the record, I do not agree with her. I will call for an extension of the regulation in a moment. Mrs Schut's party, together with Mrs Vermeij's party, has no majority in the Senate. At the same time, she is looking for support for this bill. A number of parties are considering supporting it, but this is an important point for those parties. I am surprised that Mrs Schut makes no reference to this in any way. Doesn't the VVD take a very big risk by taking a very firm position in this way that alienates the parties of the VVD that the VVD really needs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u79	We'll see. We cannot support a measure which falls down in the next cabinet period. If others can, we'll judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u80	That's not my question. I said that it is my impression that it is an important part of their consideration for other parties. I am surprised that Mrs Schut acts as if her party, together with the Labour Party, has a majority in both Chambers. If I were her, I would reach out to the parties who are considering supporting a far-reaching proposal that should yield nearly 4 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u81	The PvdA and the VVD may be different in this, but that is our right. We have made an agreement with each other on the current bridging arrangement. Anything that goes beyond or is more comprehensive than that arrangement is open to discussion and the PvdA and the VVD are therefore both free to express their own opinion. But we're not going to sign for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u82	The CDA also had an acceleration of the AOW-age increase in its programme, but with an extended transitional regime. The transitional arrangements are brief, especially in the light of the upcoming acceleration. The ceiling for this scheme has indeed been increased in the social agreement, but I believe it is justified to ask the Cabinet to extend both the duration of the transitional arrangement and to pay attention to the group that went with VRS/prepension after 1 January 2013. So that is the group the cabinet says about: they should have read that in the coalition agreement. Does Mrs Schut now say on behalf of the VVD that she does not agree with A. and B. that she will block an extension of the transitional arrangements? Moreover, I find point A difficult to defend in substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u83	You say two things. First, you ask whether the VVD can agree to an extension of the bridging regime. I have already indicated that I do not consider the current bridging arrangement to be a short one at all. People with an income of up to €3,000 and living together with an income of up to €4,500 can make use of the bridging scheme, which I find far from brief. Secondly, you ask whether the people who took early retirement between 2013 and 2015 were able to prepare for that increase in the AOW age. The acceleration of the increase in the AOW age was announced by the cabinet in 2012 and has already been in all media, but I can understand that people still have questions about this. I would like to await the answers of the cabinet before I give my final judgment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u84	I am glad that the VVD Group seems to be taking a step at least on the second point, because if we are to come up with such a legislative proposal, it is really necessary to look closely at this transitional regime, to improve it and to extend it. However, she did not answer the crucial question I asked Mrs Schut. The VVD may not consider that the scheme should be extended, for example until 2023, as suggested by several parties in the written round, but does the VVD intend to block such an extension?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u85	As you have already understood from the little debate I had with Mrs Vermeij, the PvdA and the VVD are different in that respect. At the end of the debate, it will be clear how the cabinet deals with the coverage and how the VVD views it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u86	I'm a little surprised at this, to be honest. We are talking about a bill with cumulative amounts of 3.6 billion, 3.600 million. We are now talking about a bridging arrangement which is also crucial for us, as I will explain later in my speech. I see that it is also crucial for the CDA and GroenLinks. D66 and the Labour Party also attach importance to it. I think that's a $50 million settlement. That means that the VVD can bring in a bill for 98.8%, but for that 1.2% would put things at risk. That is not a sensible VVD policy, I think!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u87	Whether you are in favour of such a bill and try to get as many people as possible into it is one. Whether you support proposals that you think should be addressed by a next cabinet is two. When other people come up with proposals, we do not necessarily block them. I have just given that opening in response to Mr Heerma. We would like to hear the coverage and the response of the cabinet. However, we will not support this proposal because we do not believe that you can leave bodies in the closet for another cabinet. Because it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u88	Depends on how it gets covered in the end. We haven't even seen a motion or anything yet. Perhaps this proposal is already covered in the text of the motion itself. Perhaps the cabinet will also say that it is willing to cover the proposal. I would like to remind the VVD once again that there can be very broad support for a legislative proposal, but that broad support could also fall away. Isn't that an element in the VVD's assessment, which means that she says that this is a good deal because we can bring in over 3.5 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u89	I repeat what I said. I'm waiting for the cabinet's answers. When I hear the interruptions, only the VVD doesn't want bodies created in the closet for the next cabinet. Apparently, no one in this house has any problems with that. Then there is sufficient majority for such a plan, I suppose. There is therefore no need to fear the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u90	That comparison with a body in the closet is not at all relevant, because "a body in the closet" means that you do not know that there is something, while we now know exactly what is going on: it would cost 48 million in the period from 2019 to 2023. So there's no mention of a body at all, let alone coming out of the closet. I have much more difficulty with Mrs Schut's reasoning that people could have prepared themselves, because this was in the 2012 government agreement. She said they shouldn't be squeaking because they could have prepared for this. The reasoning is that you have to take action immediately if something is in the coalition agreement. Then this whole legal process, two years later, is actually a pro-forma issue, because we already dealt with it in 2012. If so, could everyone have prepared for the income-dependent care premium, for example? There are many more measures in the coalition agreement that have not gone ahead. That is the basis of this cabinet for this debate in Parliament, isn't it? Can't you say much better to people: wait for the legal treatment and then you can prepare, rather than after a possible government appointment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u91	As I mentioned earlier, the VVD is in favour of people affected by the accelerated increase in the AOW age through the current bridging regime, who receive additional months of AOW. In this sense, the VVD also takes into account the people affected by the accelerated increase in the AOW age. We just don't think we can go through that scheme for another two years. We believe that a subsequent cabinet is about its own funding and not this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u92	It is about Mrs Schut's other argument: it is not really necessary, because people could have prepared because it was in the government agreement in 2012. Does she therefore no longer consider that argument to be valid?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u93	I think that's valid. All states have been in all newspapers: when, what age, that in 2021 there is an AOW age of 67. In fact, I've been getting a lot of e-mails from people who thought it had been going on a long time ago. So I think it is a valid argument. The VVD Group has also argued that the people facing this accelerated increase can make use of the existing bridging regime. There too, Mr Klein finds the VVD on his side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u94	Mrs Schut continues her speech unless there is another question from Mr Klaver. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u95	Mrs Schut is almost alone in the Chamber on this point. Many parties insist that there should be a good transitional period. That's not too much to ask, is it? If the government first says that it is going to raise the age of AOW and that there is a transitional arrangement for this and then if it is going to speed up that increase, for which there are arguments, why does Mrs Schut persist so much that it would not be possible to do so? Just because we would spend money from another cabinet period? What's the argument not to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u96	It is also about the reasonableness of the deadlines. The announcement was in 2012 and we are now in 2015. We are talking about an additional increase from 2019 to 2021, which is four to six years longer. I think it is very good to explain that if you have already announced it in 2012 and you make that decision in 2015, you will have had enough time in 2019 to 2021 to prepare yourself for it. I think that is a very reasonable deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u97	For my group, the establishment of an extension of the bridging regime is really crucial in the assessment of this bill. I don't understand the reasoning. The current bridging regime was established in 2010. We are now deciding on an even faster increase in the AOW age. We then chose to do it all the way to the end. Now it takes three years for you to get there. I really don't understand why this is almost blocked by the VVD. This almost sounds like election rhetoric to me after the elections. I still don't see the ratio behind that. I think that's a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u98	Then we'll be in a different place. I told you before, it's not a blockade. I'd like to wait and see what the cabinet has to say. At the same time, I say that the VVD is not in favour of it for two reasons. Firstly, we do not want to spend money that is not ours, and secondly, we have already been able to prepare ourselves for the acceleration of the increase in the AOW age.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u99	Mrs Schut, you will continue your speech. I would like to make a brief comment. It would be nice if we could finish the first term for lunch. We have 70 minutes of speaking time left. I do not know if anyone will use it fully, but if we use it, we will reach 1.30 p.m. I would ask colleagues to confine themselves to the most essential interruptions and, at least, to keep them brief. We will then be able to reach that time, but of course that is up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u100	Because we have agreed to link the age of AOW to life expectancy, this decision must be made without political intervention. We need to make this an automatism and not an annual AMvB, with an opinion from the Council of State. The conditions for the decision are explicitly set out in Article 7a (2). The decision to link the AOW age to life expectancy in the future follows immediately from the law. An AMvB turns out to be redundant. A ministerial publication by publication in the Official Journal is sufficient. To this end, I have in part No. 7 tabled an amendment. I would like to hear the reaction of the Secretary of State. The law provides that from 2020 onwards, the AOW age will be linked to life expectancy. It is already clear that the AOW age should be increased by three months in 2022, followed by a further increase in subsequent years. We do not want to postpone this decision until December 2016 if we already know that this increase is coming. The VVD wants to prevent us from needing a temporary bridging regime for years. That is why we want to give people as long as possible time to prepare for that increase. Medical technological developments in health care are expected to lead to a further increase in life expectancy in the medium term. As soon as the CBS projections show this increase in life expectancy in successive years, the increase in the AOW age should be announced. The VVD Group does not want to wait until five years in advance, so that people know more about their needs, can prepare longer and the insurance market can develop products on them. In order to make this possible, I have my amendment to item No. 8 submitted. I would like to receive the response of the Secretary of State. It won't surprise you: the VVD supports this bill. Expenditure on AOW has been higher than income from premiums for years. The VVD welcomes the fact that the acceleration of the increase in the AOW age contributes to the stabilisation of spending on AOW. We see that through these and other measures people continue to work longer. Because young and old are needed in the labour market, also to keep our social security accessible and affordable in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u101	The Human Rights College has ruled that the Ministry of Defence applies age discrimination by not compensating the 65-plus hole. The Overijssel court took over and confirmed that on 24 February. Does the VVD consider that the Ministry of Defence should not apply age discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u102	I can't judge that very well, because I don't know the details. What I do know is that the people who have worked in the Defense Department and are in the FLO scheme can also use the AOW bridging arrangement, if that's what you're referring to. But I don't know the specific case you're talking about right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u103	Let me put it briefly: does Mrs Schut-Based on the fact that the Ministry of Defence must respect a ruling by the judge and the Human Rights College on age discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u104	In general, everyone has to respect the judge's rulings. But in this case I do not know what connection there is with the acceleration of the increase in the AOW age, which we are discussing here. That's why I'm not pulling the line. Because I don't know where you're going with this. But, of course, any court ruling must be respected by those to whom it applies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u105	Mr. Chairman. I think I can help you in time; I can see you looking happy. This is because colleagues have already explained the substance of the legislative proposal in detail. The essence of the bill is not complicated. Mrs Schouten has made it very clear that we have already answered the essential question in 2012, with the increase to 67 years. This debate is more about the political question of whether you are prepared to speed up the increase. That's technically very simple. I do not hear colleagues asking technical questions; they are all political questions in the vein of "do you think it is justified?'. Of course, your own election programme is always important. Our election programme also mentions the increase, so you must have good reason to oppose such a bill. That's how simple the world is for me. Then colleagues can say that the need is less, but I still have to see that. Indeed, the current windfalls are related to a bad euro rate, a bad oil price, a bad world trade. Whether this is still the case next year, we hope to be together, but that remains to be seen. History does not seem very optimistic in this respect, although I do like to be optimistic. So you have to have good reasons to vote against it. We actually had two things in our election programme. First of all, it was about job opportunities. If you're gonna raise your age, people really need to be able to get to work. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State about that. I welcome the government's action to implement, at least at our request, the payment of the premium discount also for small businesses. That indeed helps the people who are in this situation. Then they can get €6,000 to €7,000 in premium discount, making them attractive to employers. This in turn raises the question of whether this will not lead to displacement into the labour market. Aren't other groups the cigar? I would also like to hear the Secretary of State on this. Is the Secretary of State concerned with employment opportunities as well as repression, also on the basis of her responsibility as Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment, in the near future? My second and most important point concerns the question of whether there is a proper transition path. We have the bridging arrangement. This has just been the subject of extensive debate by way of interruption. For us, this is an essential point in relation to this legislative proposal. Let me be transparent: it is so essential for us that it matters to our vote whether or not this is a good arrangement. As far as we are concerned, there are two shortcomings in the current regime. Firstly, there is no transitional arrangement à la OBR for the people covered by this law from 1 January 2013 until 1 July 2015. So I would like to see that category added. Secondly, this regulation must go further. Otherwise, at some point, people fall out of the boat and get wet. We don't want that. We would therefore like the deadline to run until 2022, until 1 January 2023. The simple question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether she is prepared to do so. There may be an initiative from the Chamber. Is she prepared to deal with this positively? The debate between Mrs Vermeij and Mrs Schut-Thank you, I was optimistic and pessimistic. I was optimistic, because I can tell Mrs Vermeij that she is going to say good things about her interruption in her speech. I voted pessimisticly because I see a VVD group that could question the whole law for 1.2% of the proceeds of this bill. I suspect that the voting behaviour of several groups will depend on this transitional arrangement if I listen to the contributions of colleagues so far. I think that is very unwise, but we are not yet at the end of the debate. It may also depend on the State Secretary's input. That is where I hope for a change of direction. I have four questions about the current transitional arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u106	On that last point, there is a question from Mr Heerma. Then you can continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u107	Mr Dijkgraaf summarized it more aptly than I could have done. He spoke of a pessimistic and optimistic feeling as a result of the interruption debate. That's very much my feeling, too. The extension of the transitional arrangements, which I have just heard from the SGP, is also very important to me. Mr Dijkgraaf states that this enlargement is crucial for a number of parties to vote on this law. Is he suggesting that this is also the case for the SGP itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u108	Yes. I can't save any more time, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u109	Fantastic! If it all goes this way, we'll make it to 13:30. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u110	Finally, I would like to ask a few questions about the operation of the current bridging regime. If we expand it, it will of course have to work for the current group. We get all kinds of e-mails. I wonder if those e-mails are justified or not. The vast majority of these e-mails come from people who are not yet covered by this scheme, who are less than 65 years old, and who are very concerned about the financial gap because they have little income, little wealth. They think they're gonna have a problem. That's why I'm asking the next four questions. Is there a communication problem here, or is the scheme not as wide as we think? So, do these people have the right information? How much use is being made of the current regime? Is this as much as we expected on the basis of the number of people eligible for this? If not, how come? Will the Secretary of State do her best if necessary to make the existing regime more public? My final comment is entirely in line with Mr Heerma's interruption: it is essential for us what is happening with this transitional arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u111	Mr. Chairman. Today we are again discussing in the Chamber the increase in the age of AOW, a long-term dossier. Today there is a proposal to take another step. It is well known that my group has been calling for an increase in the age of AOW since 2006. Luckily, we're getting older. To keep the AOW affordable, such an increase in the AOW age is inevitable and necessary. In 2006, my group was left here alone when we tabled motions. Although, that is not entirely true: four hands went up, namely three of the then D66 group, which fortunately is a bit bigger by now, and Mrs Verdonk's hand. In 2011, this led to the pension agreement, which proposed to take a step towards 66 years and then 67 years by 2020. That meant waiting nine years for that increase to begin. My group did not consider that to be ambitious. In the spring of 2012, following the failure of the Catshuis meeting, my group, together with other groups, namely the VVD, the CDA, the Christian Union and GroenLinks, took the responsibility in the spring agreement to also agree on the AOW. We agreed on an acceleration and mainly agreed to start immediately, with steps to increase the AOW age from 2013 onwards, so that in 2023 we would reach 67 years. Then, so we agreed, there would be a link to rising life expectancy. Not everyone was equally enthusiastic about that agreement at the time. The PvdA called it "a thoughtless increase" in its election programme. It all had to be slower. The increase was therefore partly reversed in the PvdA's election programme. However, it may be. Today we are standing here and there is a PvdA Secretary of State who, with the support of the PvdA Group, is defending a bill to increase the age of AOW even faster than was agreed in the spring agreement. So six months after the spring agreement, soon after the elections, the Labour Party immediately distanced itself from its resistance. This accelerated increase in the AOW age from the spring chord was thus not reversed at all. What am I saying? It is the superb staircase: that acceleration was accelerated even further. I assume that Mrs Vermeij will speak on behalf of the Labour Party herself, but I will ask the PvdA Secretary of State how she looks at this. Does it share my view that it is bad for the support for such far-reaching reforms, which have great consequences for people, and for the confidence in politics and the prestige of politics when parties speak very big words for elections, turn things back and scare people and after the elections, do not reverse the policy at all, but even take a step further? I'm sorry about that. However, it would be wrong to focus my group's criticism solely on the Labour Party. The PVV said in 2010 that the increase in the AOW age was a break, but one day after the elections Geert Wilders let go of that to join the VVD and the CDA. The Socialist Party, as we have seen earlier today, almost secretly raised it to 67 years in its election programme and then linked it to life expectancy, but after the elections it boasts that 65 is 65. But if we read through the counter-budget, the whole word AOW doesn't fall. The whole word doesn't fall! So even the increase that has already started is not reversed by the SP at all. There are great words, even today, from Mr Ulenbelt, but when things come to an end, nothing will be reversed. These kind of empty promises are bad for acceptance, especially for those far-reaching reforms. It is detrimental to people's confidence in politics. I am particularly looking forward to the counter-budget of Mr Ulenbelt and his Socialist Party this autumn. My party had in the election program that increase to 67 years in 2021. We are sticking to that, including from the opposition. It is exactly the same timetable as this bill also contains. We shall therefore support it. It also contains a saving of EUR 3.6 billion and I really wouldn't know where else to get that money. At least that won't be easy. However, my group is extremely critical of the government's approach. This coalition agreement included this measure. We therefore expected this bill in January or February 2013. This had given people more than two and a half years to prepare for the first year of the AOW increase faster than previously agreed. That is 1 January next year. However, the bill did not come. Last year the question was asked regularly: where is it now? In the end, the bill came on 14 November 2014, so two years after the coalition agreement. It didn't turn out to be very complex either. There was a blank opinion from the Council of State. Why didn't we receive this bill in January or February 2013? Couldn't people have prepared themselves much better? Now, many people who, after 1 January 2013, have passed the deadline of the existing bridging scheme, with VRS or, above all, pre-retirement, and who may not all have memorized the government agreement, find that they are now affected by this acceleration and have not been able to prepare themselves for it as they see fit. As far as I am concerned, it is indeed a good thing to take a very close look at that. How much would it cost for these people to do something about this accelerated increase? I have also heard other parties asking about this. I also have questions about the existing bridging arrangement, for the already agreed AOW-age increase. This scheme is now open to people who have completed VRS before 1 January 2013, but closes in 2019, while also in those years after that, the AOW age is significantly increased and again faster than planned. Does the Secretary of State see any possibility of extending that arrangement at the back to, for example, 2023? My group would attach great importance to this. Can this be financed, for example, by the considerable under-exhaustment I understand in the existing scheme? I am simply repeating the questions that Mr Dijkgraaf has just asked about the use. The use is much less than expected. Can the Secretary of State answer that? Can it also respond to all the signals from people on low incomes and low wealth, who fear that they will not be eligible for this scheme? It does not deserve the beauty prize to now deal with a law that will result in an additional month's increase in the AOW age already on 1 January next year. How will the Secretary of State communicate about this? How does she see it, if this proposal can count on a majority in both Chambers? Will that pension register indeed be adjusted immediately, so that people can see exactly what their AOW age is when they fill in their age?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u112	Mr Van Weyenberg says that it does not deserve the beauty prize to deal with this law, which will soon have to go to the First Chamber. With a little luck, we'll have half a year to enter him. Does Mr Van Weyenberg recognise that this is too fast a path? If he doesn't think that's clean, what's he gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u113	For me, this is the main reason why I consider a bridging arrangement, including for that group, to be relevant. If you knew this on January 1st 2013 and the bill had been there, you could have anticipated it. That's not true. It's getting short notice now. That is why I believe that we should defend an extension of the bridging regime. In addition, I am very critical of the fact that this has not just happened. Anyway, it's a fact. So I'd like to deal with it very quickly. This really has to be by the Senate by July 1st.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u114	The Senate is about its own agenda, so we do not have much influence on that. Is a bridging arrangement for D66 a condition for consent to this law? If so, what should this bridging arrangement look like, and what amount should the Secretary of State still pay?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u115	One of the questions I have is what it would cost if you extended the bridging scheme to those extra months for the people who went pre-retirement between 1 January 2013 and 1 January 2015. I'm not gonna threaten you, but I'm gonna stick to it. Mr. Chairman. I asked about the information. Does it end up in the pension register? I also have a question about the new structural situation. From now on, it is decided five years in advance how the AOW age will be further increased if the age expectations have increased. How will people be informed about this? This too is, I assume, very clearly visible in the pension register, which is still the place where people can make their financial planning. Then I have seen that there is an amendment by Mrs Schut-Welkten to clarify the link with life expectancy in the law, in order to increase even more automaticity. I find that an interesting thought and I look forward to the reaction of the Secretary of State. What are the pros and cons? I assume that that path, that link, has been agreed, but if I understand the amendment correctly, it will become even more automatic. I'm curious to hear the Secretary of State's response. Negotiations are currently taking place, in particular with the Ministry of Defence, on the way in which the government should act on the FLO and AOW issues. Many groups, including mine, have drawn attention to this in the debate with the Minister of Defence. I also ask this Secretary of State if there is any prospect of a solution. How are the conversations going? Finally, I come to a point that I made on previous occasions about the AOW. It is a bit unrelated to the increase in age, but it does affect many AOW'ers abroad. We have arranged that you can only get a single AOW if you can be checked that you are truly single. Therefore, if you live abroad, you must live in a country with which we have a social security agreement. Such a treaty ensures that enforcement and control can take place. I think that's wise. If you can't check, by definition, you get a lower benefit, which is supposed to be living together. Living alone cannot be determined by the Social Insurance Bank. When the laws were made on this issue, the aim has always been to make as many treaties as possible, so that people actually get what they are entitled to. However, this is still not the case in many countries. We do have an agreement with Guam, Puerto Rico and Belize; fantastic. But we do not have a treaty with Brazil, for example, where 766 AOW beneficiaries live. We also have no treaty with China and Costa Rica. And so there are a total of more than 8 countries in which more than 100 people live with AOW. I would therefore like to repeat the appeal to the Secretary of State: can she work on improving these treaties? I know that the cabinet is busy canceling and adjusting all kinds of treaties, but will we also give the original plan to make as many treaties as possible so that the export of benefits, if people are entitled to them, can be properly implemented? I would like to receive a positive response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u116	If you cannot check whether you live together when exporting the benefit, the benefit goes to 50% of the minimum wage. As a result, people who have saved a full AOW are reduced by 20%. How many people are we talking about? How many people are we going to start social security departments in all kinds of countries to check whether people live together or not? D66 is also from a small government with as little intervention as possible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u117	I am especially in favour of a government that does what it is on earth. We agreed that we would conclude treaties with as many countries as possible. I find it striking that there are still no treaties for a number of countries where many people live. There may be good reasons for that, but I would like to make another attempt. Moreover, it has always been the cabinet line to conclude as many treaties as possible. To be honest, I find it striking that Mrs Schut apparently wants to get rid of it. I am not in favour of a small government, but of an efficient and effective government that does things for which it is. I think that single people abroad are entitled to those higher singles AOW if we can control that. That's why I'd like this to be settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u118	I also asked about how many people we're talking about. I think we had treaties in the past for Costa Rica and Brazil, but we stopped because it was really just a few people who would get a higher AOW benefit. I therefore wonder whether it is appropriate to set up a whole government organisation for this purpose. I wonder what Mr Van Weyenberg has to say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u119	It's about thousands of people. I believe that the situation around Costa Rica is different from what Mrs Schut says, but let us not have that debate in detail here. So Mrs Schut does not think the numbers are relevant; well, I will pass it on to those 766 people in Brazil. I think they think differently, and so do I.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u120	D66 wants an extension of the bridging regime, but does it also want to do something about its content? Eventually you have to do it with €763 in the month. This means that a nurse or a metal worker who has a pension of €500 has to turn that in to get that €763 in the month. Do you also think that that amount should be increased?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u121	I have seen that there have also been agreements on the bridging regime at the time. It has been extended in accordance with the social agreement. I like that. I want to expand the target group; that is what I advocated. I don't have any plans to raise the altitude. I would like to say one thing to Mr Ulenbelt. He just promised everyone a free AOW at 65. Now the arrangements have to be more beautiful. But if you just join us and make agreements with us, then you can realize that instead of always saying from the sidelines that results achieved by others are never good enough. I find that very easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u122	D66, which sometimes calls itself a little more social, does it therefore find acceptable that people who have saved for their pension should receive a maximum of €763 net in the month in their AOW-hole time? This is about nurses, metal workers and soldiers who have worked their whole lives. Due to the AOW increase you want, they now have a hole and that hole is filled with €763 net in the month. You can't live with that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u123	I note, moreover, that the exhaustion of this system is still lagging behind. I am curious whether this happens because there are other provisions, for example from the pension fund. I notice that you're reminiscent of beautiful stories. It's never enough. It's gotta be nicer. We have simply signed up for a bridging arrangement that is wider than was previously the plan and which we now want to expand in terms of group. You're standing by the side. You say it's never enough. We're just trying to make things better in practice. That seems to be the difference between you and me, Mr Ulenbelt. I look forward to your counter-budget, in which, in addition to all the AOW increases, you may write down some more about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u124	May I ask all speakers to speak through the President?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u125	Mr. Chairman. This bill is about accelerating the increase in the AOW age. This proposal had several parties in their election programme at the last Lower House elections; so did the CDA. This bill has a significant impact on people who are already on early retirement, because they are affected by this bill in their income. The question is whether they could have taken sufficient account of this in all cases. That is one of the reasons why we are calling for a transitional measure in our electoral programme. In addition, it would have been better if we could have dealt with this bill earlier. Mr Omtzigt, my colleague from the CDA, and Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Klaver have repeatedly called for this bill to be submitted more quickly in recent years, so that people had more time to prepare and take this into account. Why wasn't the speed announced? Why did it take until the end of last year for this bill to be submitted to the House of Representatives? Doesn't the Secretary of State himself agree that it would have been better if the bill had been here before? The written answers of the Secretary of State to this question have so far tended to suggest that the cabinet indicated that people could have taken sufficient account of it, as this was agreed in the government agreement. However, I find that reasoning rather thin, especially considering that several groups in this House have already asked in recent years whether communication about the fact that this is coming is sufficient. Are the websites sufficiently adapted? Was the government communication fast and clear enough at this point? So were people sufficiently informed? Therefore, based on our electoral programme, the late submission and the short transitional arrangements, my group has difficulty with the transitional arrangements currently under way in relation to this bill. The hole is getting bigger for people who had already faced a hole. Why not opt for an extended and extended transitional regime, for example for the people who went with VRS and pre-retirement after 1 January 2013? Doesn't the Secretary of State agree that having this bill submitted is an additional argument for looking at it now with that look? I share Mr Dijkgraaf's optimism and pessimism. I hope that both the Secretary of State and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have listened carefully to the points made by various groups in this context during this debate. On the transitional measures, I am thinking specifically of two points which have already been highlighted by several participants in this debate. The first is the extension of the transitional measure to 2023. Several questions have been asked about this. I understand that it will cost EUR 50 million to do so. Given the nature and scope of this bill, would it not make sense to do so? In fact, wouldn't it be hard to sell not to do this? Secondly, it concerns the position of the people who went with VRS and pre-retirement after 1 January 2013. I repeat that I find the reasoning that they could have known this on the basis of the coalition agreement somewhat thin. There is a bridging measure that has already been extended in the social agreement as regards the income on which it is phased out. When you hear the arguments of different parties, it is possible that they will also be extended. Wouldn't it be weird not to do that for the new group, just on the basis that they could have read this in the coalition agreement? Would it not be more consistent and consistent to extend the scheme to this group of people until the adoption of the bill in mid-2015? It is only the acceleration part, of course, because that part has not been taken into account by these people. I'd like to put that question to the Secretary of State. With Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Dijkgraaf, I say that, for my group too, enlargement, in line with our electoral programme, is very difficult to deal with. I wonder if the Secretary of State wishes to address the issue of legal inequality. Is there no legal inequality for the second group if you do not create a bridge before that, as the previous bill did for the other group? It is a smaller group and a less long period. In addition, many VRS and pre-pension schemes have been adapted since 2012, to which Mr Van Weyenberg has just touched. Many schemes today do not have a fixed end date, but are linked to the current AOW age. Could the budgetary impact of a more consistent and consistent regime not be so limited that it is difficult to explain it for that reason alone? I would also like to ask about the labour market position of older people. How does the Secretary of State view the relationship between this bill and the poor labour market for jobseekers? In our written questions it was also about the 600,000 people who are unemployed. A lot, hundreds of thousands, people will retire later through this bill. In recent years, the age at which people are active in the labour market is increasing and the position of older people in the labour market is changing. It is more normal to be longer on the labour market. The Cabinet has several measures and action plans to improve this position, to encourage longer work, to stimulate it to return to work and to remove barriers to employers. How is the Secretary of State going to keep an eye on whether the measures provided for in this bill are sufficient and whether more needs to be done if possible to further improve that position? I agree with the questions put by Mr Krol. I would also like to draw attention to the position of people with heavy professions. The debate on the flexible AOW has been taking place here for some time and follows from previous pension agreements. Mr Klein has previously tabled a motion on this subject, supported by various parties. The last letter from the cabinet seems to reject it. I recognise that it is not an easy discussion and that there are many hooks and eyes attached to it. But has the discussion on the flexible AOW as far as the cabinet is concerned closed with the response to the supported Klein motion? Or is it a discussion that will continue in the future, also in view of the fact that the social partners, the trade unions, continue to make this plea on a number of occasions? With the functional age discharge, several groups have already talked about this: the government says to people: you could have known that age is rising because it was in the coalition agreement. But FLO schemes with a fixed end date of government servants themselves have remained. This has caused problems. Lately, more and more collective agreements and arrangements have found solutions or temporary solutions, but the problem has not been solved in its entirety. I think that's hard to say, especially when you're talking about the role of the government as an employer. That is why I ask the Secretary of State: what is she going to do to ensure that employers, especially the government as an employer, make the movement in the FLO arrangements explicit? For example, the problem of that fixed end date is solved with the acceleration and the increase there is. I'm rounding up. My colleague, Mr Omtzigt, has repeatedly asked about the relationship between the increase in the AOW age, insurance companies and pension funds, the time when the AOW enters into force and the age of 65 or 67 years, on which the pension often starts. In my view, in the last debate, the Secretary of State promised my colleague that she would talk to social partners about this. I am very curious to see what is going on here and whether the Secretary of State can say anything about this in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u126	Mr Heerma mentioned a number of problems with this bill, such as the employment position of older people at the moment. He also referred to the problems arising from this proposal concerning the functional age dismissal and the transitional measures. These are all very legitimate points that I could have mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u127	Well, you've done it, haven't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u128	Well, part of me did. Does Mr Heerma recognise that the best solution to prevent these problems is not to allow this acceleration of the increase in the age of AOW to continue and to prevent the problems from being tackled? Isn't he a little shy about the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u129	I do not know if I fully understand that last question, but I do understand the portee of the question. Those problems around the FLO are just there. They were also around the discussion in 2012. I have taken advantage of this debate, as many others have done here, to highlight the role of the government as an employer and to ask the Secretary of State to be firmly behind this. I also asked the Secretary of State to monitor the labour market position. The extension and broadening of the transitional measures is a very strong point for me. I have heard Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Van Weyenberg say that it is the most important consideration for them. To be honest, in our own election programme we had a slightly further acceleration of the age increase. So along that election programme, along that line, I'm also judging this bill. Questions and critical comments on late submission are also on the agenda, but the two points I raised regarding the transitional arrangements are very important for our final assessment of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u130	It is fair that Mr Heerma admits that there was an even faster increase in his election programme, but it is never too late to come back to bad proposals. We now have the choice to vote for or against this bill. Mr Heerma himself mentions very legitimate arguments not to do so now. Does he recognize that? Is this transitional measure a tough condition for him to be able to agree to this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u131	The interesting thing is that a week ago, on the night of the election results, the leader of Mrs Schouten's party announced that the Christian Union would not support this bill and he also indicated that a party such as the CDA would support it because that party had included in its electoral programme a further acceleration. In this respect, therefore, the leader of the Christian Union has already answered Mrs Schouten's question. The fact remains: I'm not running away from our election program. I have heard Mrs Schouten say here that good proposals based on the Christian Union election programme are the guiding principle for the Christian Union's voting behaviour. We've been saying that for a long time. I do not want to run away from the fact that we have this measure more clearly in our electoral programme, but for the final assessment of this bill, the transitional measure and the two points I have raised are crucial to our final assessment. That is why I have also stated that I hope that both the cabinet and the VVD Group have listened very carefully not only to what my group has brought forward but also to some other groups on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u132	Mr. Chairman. I will see if I can do it a little faster, given the debate that has already taken place here; the positions seem clear in the Chamber by now. For the record, the PVV does not support this bill. We prefer to keep the AOW age at 65 years. We have included this point of departure in our electoral programme and we have also come to cover it. Of course it costs billions to do that, but yes, making choices costs money in politics and we choose to keep that money in the Netherlands. Because keeping Greece with the euro also costs billions, keeping Brussels officials at work also costs billions, and that mass immigration and development aid also costs billions. The PVV chooses its own country and our own people instead of abroad. That's why we can make it happen that the AOW age is 65 years old. Even when I look at Rutte I's compromise reached over 66 years, I think: gosh, we were better off then anyway. Anyway, it's no different. There seems to be a majority in the Chamber for the acceleration of the AOW age to continue. We will have to do so unless we can convince other parties to withdraw their support. However, Mr Van Weyenberg says that it can be done even faster, D66 is fine and even the PvdA says: come on, take that money from the elderly, because we are going to do things with it, like pay for mass immigration. I have already said that the PVV Mordicus is opposed to this increase in the AOW age. We believe that there is an unreliable government if people are saddled with an AOW-hole in the short term. Nor can we see any support for this measure. People don't want it. As far as the labour market is concerned, this increases unemployment. People stay longer in their jobs and young people stand longer on the sidelines. We certainly think that this is very unwise at the moment. Older people's unemployment is famous. When you're 55, you just don't get back to work. That is why we should not do it. I have already said that this measure provides a lot of money, but the PVV makes other choices and wants to keep the money in the Netherlands instead of giving it to abroad. And then it can definitely be paid. In conclusion, the much too rapid increase in the AOW age is causing a lot of problems. It does not show respect for the older workers to take on the government's austerity drive in the short term. Greece or Brussels will only have to squeak or the money tap from the Netherlands will be opened wide again. And now we see who's paying the price. Those are the people who are about to retire or have just taken early retirement. We think that's something to be ashamed of. As far as we are concerned, this bill can go straight to the trash can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u133	Can I ask the people in the public gallery not to show disapproval or to give their approval?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u134	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank colleagues for their input, including Mr Madlener, for his almost entertaining input and the links between mass migration and money to the Greeks and the direct link to this bill. I didn't read it very directly, but at least it was entertaining. We are talking today about the accelerated increase in the AOW age. Much has already been said about this; there are many speakers. So I can keep my contribution limited. Let me say that GroenLinks has always supported the increase in the AOW age in itself because it is beyond question. The AOW is a great asset and a wonderful facility, of which it is very important that it remains available for future generations. If we are to achieve this, it is also necessary that the AOW remains affordable. A higher AOW age is therefore inevitable. That is not a bad thing either: we live longer and healthier than ever. On average, people can enjoy their pensions for almost 20 years. Twenty years! When the AOW was introduced, that figure was four times lower and people had an average of five years' pension. As a result of this increase in life expectancy, we now see that an ever smaller group of workers must bear the pension of the elderly. That's not sustainable. If we do not change anything, the cost of this will be disproportionate to the younger generations. My party doesn't want that. That is precisely why GroenLinks made a commitment to the AOW increase in age during the negotiations on the Spring Agreement. However, there are still doubts about the legislative proposal before us today. My doubts therefore do not concern the increase. That may be clear. I have just explained why I support it. My doubt is whether an even faster increase is necessarily necessary and proportionate. This leads to uncertainty and unrest among people and the question is for what. The AOW age itself doesn't change, just the path towards it a little. Structurally, therefore, the proposal does not lead to additional revenues. Why are we doing this? I'd like to get a clear statement from the Secretary of State. Let me be clear: my party had an accelerated increase in its election programme. I found that right at the time, given the context. It was 2012 and public finances were completely out of control. Additional austerity efforts were needed, but this need is now falling, when we see that there are simply surpluses again. Nevertheless, the Secretary of State writes to my surprise in her note on the report that it is still necessary. I can't really get into that. Now it seems as if there are surpluses. Then you can say that it is a choice not to spend the money that is there to the AOW but to other wishes that we want to pay for. However, the necessity that we knew in 2012, which is why my party had included it in the program, falls away. I would therefore like to hear a firmer support from the Secretary of State for this. That is important for my group. One more thing about the position of the labour market, because we know that it is a vulnerable group. Everyone knows that the chances of finding a job after your 50th are falling dramatically. 50Plus works is not an action plan of a party here but a plan of the UWV, which my party does criticize. I do not believe that you are helping older people to work through social media training or something like that, but I do think that the fact that resources have been allocated and that efforts are being made is important. This will come to an end in 2016. How does the Secretary of State view that? How are we going to ensure that further efforts are made beyond 2016 to strengthen the labour market position of this vulnerable group in the labour market? Then the IOW. I think it is very important that people who are unemployed and who get out of WW assistance should not be obliged to eat their homes, but we see that the IOW runs until 2020, in accordance with agreements in the social agreement. Isn't there a problem there, too? Should we not increase this, all the more so because, as my group believes, we should also increase the bridging regime? This brings me to two other issues which I would like to address briefly, namely the period of entry into force and the bridging regime. Public authorities may be expected to have a reasonable period between announcement and entry into force of a law. Unfortunately, that is not the case under this law. More than two and a half years ago, the plans before us were announced in the coalition agreement and only today we are talking about the law. How is that possible? What efforts will the Secretary of State make to ensure that no one is unclear about this accelerated increase? Why is it just now? What's the reason for that? What obstacles were there? I believe that, as a government, we should strive to clarify the changes that are imminent to citizens as soon as possible. The Secretary of State says he's been waiting for that support investigation. Who exactly did the Secretary of State test that support, what was the outcome of that investigation and why was that investigation carried out? If the result was negative, would the Secretary of State have decided to simply ignore this important law from the coalition agreement? If not, how serious do you take the participants in the investigation? I would also like clarification on this point. Finally, the bridging arrangement. There is an important shortcoming that must be resolved with regard to GroenLinks and which is also crucial in the assessment of whether we can support this proposal. The bridging arrangement ends as of 2019 because, according to the Secretary of State, people have had enough preparation time. That seems to me first of all to be a random border, but even more important, not entirely fair to people with a small income. No matter how long before you put them on the highest level, if there is simply no room to save, you can hardly blame them for being unprepared. GroenLinks therefore wants the scheme to remain in place until 2023, not only in length but also in depth. There's a cost of $48 million, if I understand correctly. We therefore want this to be arranged to ensure that people do not fall apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u135	Mr Klaver says that he has great doubts about the need for this proposal at the moment. He asks a number of questions about this to the Secretary of State and he mentions the preparation time and a number of other things. But has Mr Klaver not already given his opinion on this bill, namely that it is not necessary at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u136	There are times when I really desire to be Mr Ulenbelt, or a member of the SP. Then the world is quite clear. Then you go into a debate and you usually know what you're going to say, which is, no. My group has reservations about the legislative proposal. We have questions about that. That's what we said. We simply had this in our electoral programme and I want to hear a clear argument from this Secretary of State in order to finally assess whether we can support this bill. We do not categorically reject it, but I need this debate in order to reach a verdict on whether we can support this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u137	Yes, but like me, Mr Klaver pointed to budgetary surpluses. He has doubts about whether the path to the AOW is just being followed. Is only the quality of the bridging regime decisive for GroenLinks' judgement or does the fact that the urgency of the budget deficit appears to be gone also play a role?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u138	Let me look at one of the coalition partners, who was quite critical of the bridging arrangement. In my speech, I thought I needed to spell out how important that part is for my group. That's why I paid more attention to that. Furthermore, I asked the Secretary of State for a proper justification, because I did not think it was good enough so far. Why is this bill necessary at the moment? I'll wait for that whole package. I also asked a question about the IOW. The overall package, the reactions of the Secretary of State, the possible commitments and any motions to be adopted are important for the final consideration of my group. I hope Mr Ulenbelt understands that I paid a little more attention to this bridging arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u139	Mr. Chairman. I too will try to keep it a little shorter. That is also possible, because many colleagues have already asked good questions. We have been talking about increasing the age of AOW for six years, and a lot has really happened during that period: pension agreements, government agreements with or without the support of tolerated partners, a Kunduz agreement, election programmes, a partial agreement in the autumn of 2012, in which this acceleration is possible, and finally the government agreement of this cabinet. This bill follows from that coalition agreement. I say in all honesty that nobody will be surprised that it is not a proposal contained in our electoral programme. It's also quite a big increase that hurts people, especially some groups. That is what I want to talk about in my speech. I ask the Secretary of State about the position of older people in the labour market, about the operation, the duration and the right of the bridging scheme, about the use of the pension for this bridge, about the functional age discharge and about communication. A number of measures have been taken to speed up the employment of older unemployed people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u140	Mrs Vermeij has just mentioned a number of issues on which she wishes to speak, but Mr Van Weyenberg would like to ask a question before that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u141	My question is not about these subjects either. In spring 2012, five parties concluded the Spring Agreement. In it, it was faster to start with the AOW age increase and the link. Mrs Vermeij's party called that "unthought-out." Now it's not going to be reversed, it's going to be accelerated. How does Mrs Vermeij look back on that judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u142	If you take history well, you know that in January, February, we supported the first increase in the age of AOW. The PVV did not, but because of us there was a majority in this Chamber. The main argument for us not to support the Kunduz agreement, which contained elements which we did support and which later returned to our electoral programme, was that the retirement agreement, which was very difficult to conclude between employers and employees and which was extremely important to our party, was farewell.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u143	I note that the Labour Party did not think it right to start earlier, that part of its electoral programme also reversed, but eventually concluded a government agreement that would speed up the increase. I am pleased to note that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u144	That is simply a correct observation; I cannot say otherwise. I have made it clear that it is not in itself a proposal in which the Labour Party is very much in favour, as some other parties in this House do. By the way, I see that the line of the AOW-age increase runs exactly between the lines of the VVD and the PvdA. The coalition agreement is therefore a result of these two electoral programmes. There are premium discounts for people who become unemployed at a later age, but which we would very much like to see going to work. Mr Dijkgraaf of the SGP has already said a few things about this. We are talking about older workers, but older workers are often workers who, with this increase in the age of AOW, often still have ten years to go. More is needed than just the bonus discount or the work bonus for low-income people. There is also a need for a cultural change for employers to employ older people. Moreover, we are going to discuss this, even if we are discussing, for example, pay for sickness. On the contrary, this bill should be a kind of encouragement to join forces to help people who become unemployed at a later age to return to work. The IOW, on which Mr van GroenLinks has also asked sensible questions, is a form of income support for older unemployed people, but is no fun. The people who are in such a scheme, whom I speak, want to make nothing but a useful contribution to society and simply get back to work, if necessary, in another sector. Here too, we still have a whole world to win, because intersectoral mobility, which is an expensive term for: going from one profession to another, is still not getting under way. I would also like to talk about a group that has actually been unable and unable to prepare for this increase. These are the people who are already in early retirement or in another scheme with an end date. There are two groups involved. The first group was already in before 1-1-2013. The second group came in after 1-1-2013 with an end date that might have been the old AOW period, even though it was already known at that time that the AOW age would be increased. First of all, there is something else, namely the regulation itself. I also refer to Mr Dijkgraaf. I often get e-mails from people who I think are: given the conditions of the bridging arrangement, I have only taken them once again. Would the Secretary of State like to take another look at these conditions? Isn't that something? It seems as if the scheme has become fairly inaccessible. I would like to point out two conditions that I have removed from the SVB's website and in particular the last condition: your income is not too high. The bridging regime has very clear income limits. Why did that last condition stop? What's the reason for that? According to the Secretary of State, is there any other reason why this bridging arrangement is not or hardly being used? Has she even received e-mails that she thought might be crazy, these are people with a very small income who are facing an AOW-hole and for whom at first sight the bridging arrangement should have provided a solution? The Labour Party considers that the bridging regime is a focus of attention in the present legislative proposal. We believe that we need to look closely at the border cases created by this accelerated increase. There are also people who were already in a kind of final arrangement before 2013 and who are facing an increase and a hole after 2019. We would like this arrangement to be opened up to them. The same applies to the second group. This also has to do with the moment we present this bill: the 1-1-2013 group and the 1-1-2015 group. As far as the PvdA Group is concerned, the bridging regime should also be opened to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u145	Mrs Vermeij talks about people who could not take into account the increase in the AOW age. Several colleagues, including myself, also asked about this group in the written round. The Secretary of State stated that it had already been announced in the coalition agreement and that they could therefore know it. Mrs Schut-Welkins (PPE). - (NL) Madam President, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Schut-Welkins for being here for a moment. Does Mrs Vermeij now recognise that it is simply a nonsense argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u146	No, it's not a bullshit argument, it's an argument. You can also use that, because it is communicated and it is very clear on the SVB site. But I still think that we have a duty to take this seriously in relation to people who are in a scheme that has become applicable in the last two years, so when that acceleration was known, people who are faced with an end date and therefore with an AOW-hole and certainly with a low income. We are dealing with this bill very late, namely in the spring of 2015, while it will start as of 1 January 2016. I therefore weigh the other argument more heavily.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u147	That's a different word than it was before, isn't it? You were really talking about the group that couldn't take this into account. That is a different interpretation than: "they should have known, but well, this bill will be dealt with late." Doesn't Mrs Vermeij think it is more just, given the late date when we deal with the bill and if she still wants the bill to go ahead, to allow the bill to go into later, so that these groups can anticipate it more?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u148	No, I don't. That doesn't matter either, because if you're in a settlement with an end date, it doesn't matter whether this bill is dealt with later or not. You'll have that hole anyway. My first argument relates in particular to the group of 1 January 2013. If people were in an end-date arrangement then they could not prepare for the current AOW age increase and certainly not for this new increase. There is a difference between the group before 1 January 2013 and the group of 1 January 2013 and 1 January 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u149	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u150	For both groups, it is good to take a closer look at this, especially since the costs of this extension are relatively low compared to the occasional yield. On the contrary, the impact on the individual income position of older people is very high. You have already understood that we will support initiatives in this area, and otherwise we will take the initiative ourselves. Also for the functional age discharge applies: government, practice what you preach. We have debated this on several occasions. The public authorities should be an example of the legislative proposals which they themselves put forward and which are adopted here. There are several problems, including within the government, with early retirement benefits that sometimes have to be commonplace, as with the Defense Department. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State about this. I hope that she will come up with answers that differ from 'I refer you to my colleague for these questions'. I really believe that we do have duties here. It is about policemen, ambulance workers and, of course, also about people who are covered by the UMG scheme, which has been under discussion for years. Of some schemes, you would like them to be somewhat increased or to see whether appropriate employment can be found, but some regulations, especially in the case of the defence sector, are something else. Is there going to be a smooth transition in the short term? Most pension schemes have already been adapted, but people are still unable to postpone their pension scheme because the end date has been set at 65 years. Does the Secretary of State see that problem? Can she estimate the extent of this problem? Is she willing to look for a solution? There was a temporary solution in December 2012, but it runs until April 2015. Perhaps an extension should be sought. Together with the VVD Group, we have tabled an amendment proposing that the second pillar products can also serve as an opportunity to fill an AOW hole. I say quite honestly: yes, that's a cigar out of your own box, because that's what you pay for. But at least we want to enable people to choose that solution. That seems very important to us. I'm closing up. Although difficult and painful for some people, in view of the future and our wishes, it is an important step that we are taking today in dealing with this bill. I hope that our strong society can do the same. We have been able to see a lot in recent years. For example, the average age of exit has increased with jumps. In the light of what is to come, for example, to create more work by doing something about labour burdens or addressing other major problems, Mr Klaver spoke about Groningen too. If this increase really gets its impact, we'll be back a few years. I hope that by then we will really be able to speak of a stronger labour market for young and old and that there will be less unemployment. For our children and grandchildren, working life is going to look very different anyway. As a Social Democrat, I also take that perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u151	Mrs Vermeij is right to be concerned about the fact that little use is made of the bridging regime, while the conditions themselves are favourable. But isn't it true that people don't even want to get into it, because that doesn't make their income higher than €763? A nurse is counting on AOW plus €500 pension. That's a total of €1,500. If she steps into that bridging arrangement, she'll have to turn in that pension. Then she will receive €236 in the bridging scheme. That's half the income. That's not a serious bridge, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u152	I recommend that Mr Ulenbelt read the conditions again. Pension capital and own house are excluded. If you had the opportunity to postpone your pension, that would be a solution. However, Mr Ulenbelt is right to say that there are cases where this is detrimental. That too is one of the reasons why I asked the Secretary of State a number of questions about access to this bridging arrangement. I look forward to her answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u153	If you can postpone your pension assets, if, if, if, if... on the one hand you submit an amendment to bring the pension forward and on the other hand you say: leave pensions so that you can get into the bridge. You can't follow that anymore, can you? You have a great social democratic heart, but if you enlarge the bridging regime, you would also be very wise to increase the amounts that people are entitled to. Only then will you really build a bridge, as the motto of the coalition agreement is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u154	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Ulenbelt for his compliment. I would like to read out on condition four of the Social Insurance Bank: 'Your own house and pension assets do not count'. That is one of the conditions mentioned here. I, too, have questions about how it is possible that a lot of people do not end up in that scheme, which I think they could and should have made use of.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u155	Several parties which are not part of the coalition but which have accelerated the increase in the age of AOW in the election programme have emphasised that extending that bridging regime, both its length and its access for persons in the category 1 January 2015 to mid-2015, is a very important test of the assessment of this bill. Does this also apply to the Labour Party? It did not accelerate the increase in the age of AOW in the electoral programme, but it did agree to this in the coalition agreement. Is the extension of the bridging regime at two points for the Labour Party an important test for the assessment of this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u156	I can say yes to that, especially in the light of our electoral programme. We are, of course, in favour of our agreements in the coalition agreement. We therefore support the increase, but I have not made it a secret in previous debates in this House that the transitional arrangements are a very important point, precisely in order to support those who have not been able to prepare for this increase. I, like you, distinguish the two groups in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u157	Mr. Chairman. Certainly as a last speaker, it is good to consider this bill again in detail. Every statutory age limit is arbitrary. Every statutory age limit is subject to change. For example, the age limit was reduced from 21 to 18 years, as was the electoral age. The study funding is linked to an age of 27 years. In the fight against unemployment for older workers, the age used goes up and down: first it was 50 years, then 55 years and now it is 50 years, but then it is not for all measures. The age limit for lifelong learning credit is 55 years, so it is not "lifelong learning." Every statutory age limit is arbitrary. Similarly, the age limit for entitlement to an AOW benefit is arbitrary. That border was 65 years old, but is now shifting to a higher age. This bill accelerates the shift. Why? Because of a higher life expectancy? Actually, that's a purely bullshit argument. It is purely sought because it is based on a kind of average, which is also made dependent on, for example, the state of medical technology. There is no consideration at all for man, for the individual himself. It is simply an administrative limit, motivated by budgetary reasons. That is, in itself, legitimate. We need to give people in our social security system a chance to stop working at an older age while maintaining a basic income. We must also keep our social security system stable, with a balance being struck between social costs on the one hand and contributions to be paid and taxes to be paid on the other. This includes an age limit. If the costs are too high because of a combination of longer life on average and demographic developments, then it is acceptable that the buttons should be turned. However, from a free-minded perspective, the setting of a border should also take into account the personal circumstances of a person. As is well known, liberal politics means to me that people are given the opportunity to give their own content to their lives and that this is not done by the government. People must be able to decide for themselves how often and until they want to work. It doesn't fit in with this time when someone automatically gets fired just because they reach a certain age. The AOW does not provide sufficient flexibility. Unfortunately, the division of non-AOW-age and well-AOW-age continues to exist. The automatic entry of the AOW is illogical. The cabinet often talks about "a natural moment," but what is there of course to an ever shifting, arbitrary legal limit for receiving the AOW benefit? As a result of the increase in the AOW pensionable age, many people have had a pension gap, which they have not been able to anticipate in all cases. Only for lower incomes there is a bridging arrangement. According to the cabinet itself, Modal incomes have to figure it out. In order to provide a solution to this dishonesty, the plan I have already indicated can also help to introduce a flexible AOW. This makes it possible to record AOW earlier, or later, with proportional adjustment of the height of the AOW. On balance, the pensioner receives about the same, without experiencing a pension gap. He can also work quietly if he wants to. The letter of 16 February 2015 from the Secretary of State on the flexibilisation of the AOW to the House of Representatives missed an opportunity to increase flexibility for the ageing population. My motion of December 2013 adopted by the House of Representatives for the flexibilisation of the AOW, as mentioned by Mr Heerma, is thrown into the trash by the State Secretary. In her letter, the Secretary of State says no to this budget-neutral solution and ignores this idea. It would be too complicated to enter. Pension funds often know the concept of flexibility, but this is too difficult for the cabinet. However, we live in 2015. The world is flexible. The trend is that people themselves take control of their own lives and shape their own lives. You can see that all around you. People work part-time, do volunteering, become zzp'er and choose to work longer or to quit earlier. It's not like this time when the government chooses what people are going to do, when they do, and when they need to retire. The Secretary of State, and thus the Cabinet, insists on the idea that the AOW should be a kind of one size fits all-concept. I want to help the Secretary of State by looking at it with a positive look. Flexibilisation of AOW makes it possible for people to stop earlier. That's good to prevent displacement. Flexibility makes it possible to keep people working longer. This is good for employment participation. It's just how you look at it, though. The glass is half full or it's half empty. Unfortunately, the Secretary of State now sees the glass as half empty. However, liberal politics also means continuing to work constructively towards improvements. As far as I'm concerned, it's about content. The political game is just a means. That is why I will now work on an alternative and I will also submit a proposal for flexible AOW to the Chamber. Fortunately, I read in the note on the report that the Labour Party Group is in favour of this in principle. A side effect of linking the age to the AOW benefit is that all kinds of expensive conditions are also rigged to keep people at work up to that age. This is only more expensive because of the accelerated increase in this bill. Did the cabinet take that into account? At the same time, people who have reached age are suddenly forced to stop working. I find that strange, but the cabinet deliberately chooses to maintain this strange policy with arguments that contradict itself in my opinion. Can the Secretary of State explain why she is holding on so rigidly to that age, while it seems much more logical to look at what people can do and what added value they have for our society? Shouldn't much more emphasis be placed on the positive effects on the labour market of experience, knowledge and loyalty, which can be preserved if people also work after the AOW age? That gives you a lot more options. Wouldn't it be much better for the Cabinet to take on a facilitating role rather than imposing measures linked to age? If so, how can we see that in the coming period? From a free-minded perspective, in which people are at the centre, it will be clear that this rigid legislative proposal does not provide a solution. One is now forced to work to an increased AOW age, while liberal politics chooses independent people who are involved in their own lives. If the arbitrary border is there and you change it, it is of course important that there is a good transitional arrangement. That is the most important point for my group. It is very harsh when people because of their age have an inescapable income gap due to changes in the rules of the game. In my view, changes to the rules of the game take place in the case of legal proceedings and not in the case of some kind of pre-announcement in, for example, a coalition agreement. From our responsibility for a sustainable social provision for old age, a shift from the border can be accepted on its own if there is a good, real bridging arrangement for everyone. How can all those who are not eligible for the bridging scheme stop working sooner? How does the Secretary of State see that? How does the Secretary of State propose that these people bridge the months without income? Is the Secretary of State prepared to extend the bridging arrangement, in particular for the 1951-1955 cohort? Does the Secretary of State wish to extend the expiry date of the Temporary Bridging Allowance-AOW to 1 January 2023? In conclusion, the accelerated increase in the AOW age limit is acceptable in order to arrange an affordable AOW for future generations, if people have time to prepare. This means that people must have sufficient time to prepare themselves through a proper bridging regime, but also to have the possibility with a flexible AOW.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-26-tweedekamer-6.u158	I would like to thank my fellow Members for their cooperation, so that we were able to conclude at 1.30 p.m. I'll suspend for half an hour before lunch. At 2 p.m., we will proceed first with the swearing-in of Mr Fred Teeven and then with the order of business.
