ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber and in the public gallery, in particular the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport. Nine speakers have spoken for this debate. They have four minutes' speaking time per person. I suggest that we do two-way interruptions, with a question and a possible follow-up question. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP, who is also the applicant for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I think that the 736,759 people are actually the applicants for this debate. Those were the people who signed the petition Red's care. That's an overwhelming number. This was also noted when we were discussing whether we should have this debate. It's really the first time in decades that so many people sign a popular petition. That makes it clear that something must be done. 83% of Dutch people are worried about care and 85% of Dutch people do not support the cuts. They are ashamed that the elderly and the needy have to go to court to check whether they are entitled to care. They are ashamed of the closure of nursing homes and the breakdown of home care. They are also ashamed of the health problems that are being told, that it would all get better, while everyone sees that a great breakdown followed. Last week we received the news that in the north of the country hundreds of people are losing their jobs at a home care organisation. They're not the only ones. And the worst is yet to come, everyone says. Even the Secretary of State will have to acknowledge that his policy is dramatic in terms of employment. He comes up with a coded market behavior home support. What a weak bite. At the collective agreement, he promised nursing homes, nursing homes and home care that he would lay down a basis in the law, a rate that the municipalities should not go into, so that the home care workers would not pay the bill with a lower salary? Why is that basic rate not regulated through an General Measure of Governance? I come today with a motion to enforce it, but I hope it is not necessary. In fact, I think it is a real shame of this Secretary of State to say that he has not yet fulfilled the only promise he has made to people who work in the household care sector. There's no place in the nursing home. General practitioners let us know that they have to carry around with people who really need to be accommodated somewhere, for a weekend or an evening. They also no longer receive home care or daily spending. If they are entitled to it, their own contributions are so high that they can't even pay them anymore. That doesn't really mean they have a right to it anymore. Neighborhood care cannot bear the cuts without endangering people's right to care. The household aid supplement is a bureaucratic monstrosity that doesn't work. Municipalities and care institutions are going to die of bureaucracy. Everything the Secretary of State has touched in recent years has turned into drama. I haven't even mentioned the pgb-chaos yet. This Secretary of State has beaten the crap out of all the warnings. He's gone on stoic: he's made cuts and he's broken down care. So, Secretary of State, did you pass? People don't think so. I heard the Secretary of State very well in handing over these signatures. He said, "Good care is something that you fight not only for, but also for me; it is a battle I fight." I therefore expect that the Secretary of State can do nothing but sign this petition today, and take over the five demands contained in it one-on-one. I therefore call on the Secretary of State to do so, to elaborate on all five of the demands of the petition, and to explain how he is carrying them out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. When the FNV told me a few months ago that it intended to collect 300,000 signatures in six weeks, I thought: pooh, that's a lot. But I was actually too pessimistic, because the petition was signed by more than 700,000 people in six weeks. I also noticed it in Rotterdam, Vlaardingen, Utrecht and other places. The concern for care is enormous among people. It's kind of about something, too. Sixty-five thousand jobs have been lost in the last two years, and a new wave of redundancies seems to be coming. On Monday, TSN announced to say goodbye again to 654 employees, not because there is no need for the care these people have to offer, but simply because there is not enough money to provide the care they need. On 19 June, the Secretary of State received the petition. As I understand it, he was positive. He would like to sit down with the unions because he shares many of the points of the petition. Has the Secretary of State had that discussion by now? I do not see what points he has actually made. I'll walk them by. First of all, no cuts in care and support at home. Although the cabinet says it wants people to live longer at home, this is where the cuts are the hardest. And if there was any extra money, it didn't go to care at home, but rather to institution care, while cutting back on home care is the dumbest thing you can do if you want people to live at home longer. Secondly, make sure that money for care really goes to care and limit bureaucracy and top rewards. There is still a lot of news about drivers making a lot of money, while at the same time people who do provide care lose their jobs, and people who still have a job, have to deal with a lot of bureaucracy. During the care ribs of the FNV I have heard really sad stories about the bureaucracy that people have to keep track of. But what does the Cabinet do? The introduction of the Top Income Standards Act was postponed for a further year by Minister Schippers as regards VWS. How about this? I come to the occupation standard for adequate staffing. We have seen several meetings of the FNV and we have all agreed on this point. In fact, when we were presented with the statement that an occupation standard was still needed this summer for adequate staffing, we all supported this, from SP to VVD. Where's the line-up standard now? I would like to hear from the Secretary of State today that this occupation standard will come in the short term, because the summer is now over. Another point was improving the position of people who work in healthcare. The CBS recently estimated that 65,000 people in health care have lost their jobs in the last two years alone. However, the Secretary of State seems to be okay with municipalities hiring people who are not covered by the care- but by the cleaning-cao, while cleaning and household care are really not one-on-one. The code agreed this week will not change that either. How will the Secretary of State improve the position of people in health care? What's he doing about the huge numbers of layoffs? What is he doing about a downward spiral in wages? The Secretary of State knows the petition and the five questions of the petition. For each of the five demands we want to hear what the Secretary of State is going to do. As far as we are concerned, this starts with Princess Day by choosing an investment in care that will end up with people who provide care and with people who need care, starting with home care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. This debate has been requested following the overwhelming number of signatures, over 730,000, for the petition Save the care. A madly large number of Dutch people say that they completely disagree with the policies of the VVD and the Labour Party, who received a majority for these plans here and there by the CDA, D66, GroenLinks, the Christian Union and the SGP. This petition is essentially a major motion of censure. A large part of the people who signed it also vote for the PVV. Research shows that one out of six members of the FNV vote for the PVV. Their representative should not, however, be the only MP to attend the health event on 12 September. One in six members; together, about 180,000 FNV members vote for the PVV. Like me, they are all discriminated against, because of those people there are zero in the FNV member parliament and zero in the board. That gives a dirty taste to the case. At a previous care demonstration, it was even activists of the AFA, helped by some 30 SP'ers and FNV'ers, who, after everyone had first run frank and quite cheerfully in the parade, made our presence impossible, so we had to leave. We have then repeatedly read in AIVD reports that this group is dangerous and violent. But it could be worse. Where the AFA previously did the dirty work, it is now the highest rank of FNV drivers of SP- and PvdA-house who take over without hesitation. What a wrong policy on the back of people who need care! The anti-PVV sentiment is apparently more important than saving care. Of course, the PvdA is welcome on 12 September, while 92% of its voters do not support the destruction of care by their own Labour Party. Anyway, better invited than not! Fortunately, these 180,000 FNV members, like their PVV representative, have a very big heart for the care. We would like to save the care, without resentment to anyone. During my maternity leave I wrote a book containing nineteen proposals that make care better and cheaper. There is so much to gain in terms of waste, fraud, rules, mega-wages and breaking expensive systems that it is actually embarrassing that this is so emphatically and permanently ignored. We support the petition which states that working in care is a profession and that volunteers and carers, although of enormous value, can never replace professional care staff. We also do not want forced self-employed workers without rights or an obligation to return wages. However, what we do not think is so sensible is the SP stick-horse of the occupation standard. That's just weird, and it's also an impossible idea. One, for example Brandon, constantly needs two fulltimers in his vicinity, while the other only needs care on call and should not think about having someone around him all the time. Instead of an occupation standard, we are therefore in favour of right of residence. Give someone the basic right to go out and an adequate occupation will follow. Anyway, our eyes are on the cabinet and his friends in the opposition. What will it be: ignore this motion of mistrust of 730,000 Dutch people again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. Nearly 750,000 signatures in six weeks. The petition Red's concern makes it clear that people feel deeply involved in the care in our country and are worried about it. I've spoken to a lot of people who signed the petition. Those are those who need care, those who work in care, those who care for their loved ones, but also those who are still at some distance from care, but wonder how they will be if they need care in the future. The concern affects all of us. Is it just trouble and torment in the care? Definitely not! I see involved employees doing their work with heart and soul. I see nursing homes opening the doors further, so that older people from the neighborhood can eat a bite there. I see churches putting the theme of loneliness on their agenda and seeing what they can do in that area. Those are all valuable things. But of course I also understand the questions in this connection. Because what good is it if your household care is reduced from seven to two hours, without a proper conversation? What good are good words about innovations in health care when you, as domestic help, are asked to make a wage sacrifice while management doesn't hand in anything at all? That too is the reality. I would like to raise three points on the occasion of the petition. First of all, that's nursing care. It's not yet Princess' Day, but it's already clear that the cabinet wants to use 200 million for nursing homes. I read in the media: more money for day activities such as music and games. If we learn one thing from the initiators of Red de zorg, it is that investments in the care itself are needed. Let's invest in high- and low-skilled care workers, in a nursing team in every nursing home, in nurses who support in their work by coaching on the job. Is the cabinet going to make a commitment to this? And of course, the 250 million savings on nursing home care in 2017 have to be cancelled. Is the cabinet coming up with a proposal for that? Then I'll come to the maid's. Last year, thanks to the commitment of my group, money was made available for the household aid supplement: 40 million for two years. Aldermen tell me that they have spent this money on a soft landing or that they have converted it to vouchers, for example in Enschede. It has actually saved jobs. However, I also hear that the regulation is very complicated. There are even examples where implementation costs are higher than the subsidy. That's not supposed to happen, is it? What's the Secretary of State gonna do about this? The code of responsible market behaviour, which is now in place, must stop the wage drop in home care. Is the Secretary of State going to make another attempt to get the FNV into this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u6	With regard to the household supplement, I very much agree with what Mrs Dik-Faber said about it. What bothers me is the fact that there are also municipalities that used the household surcharge to hire cleaning companies. What does the Christian Union think of that? After all, cleaning is not one-on-one the same as household care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u7	I am as critical of this as the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance: that is not the intention. I have mentioned the example of vouchers being issued so that people can buy care from healthcare institutions themselves. I have also mentioned the example of the soft landing. I also see that there are municipalities that are continuing domestic aid so that there is time to have the kitchen tables. Those are the good examples. As far as my group is concerned, cleaning companies are not involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u8	That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mrs. Dik talked so fast, it was over before I really knew it. What's off the table now? She said that before she brought up the maid's supplement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u10	In the government agreement, the intention is to cut down 250 million on nursing home care in 2017. My group finds it impossible for me to believe the media to come up with a proposal from the cabinet to invest 200 million in nursing care, and then to raise 250 million by the other hand. That's not consistent. As far as my group is concerned, this austerity is going to go away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u11	Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u12	Can't I ask a follow-up question, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u13	Yes, of course you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u14	Isn't that a little double? First, you support the cabinet in all the reforms and in all the cuts, and now you're going to say that there's got to be some sort of change. Now that could be the new mode operandi of the Christian Union. For example, the Christian Union yesterday felt that everyone should take a refugee into their homes, but it does not do so itself. Is this how I'm supposed to look at the Christian Union? Then it's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u15	I find it very remarkable that the CDA Group is asking this question. In the past, the Christian Union has worked hard to reverse the cabinet's proposals. The CDA wasn't there. That was the CDA's choice. The Christian Union has proposed that there should be no further cuts in healthcare. That is laid down in a motion and that motion has also been adopted in this Chamber. However, the CDA did not support that motion. My group is therefore very surprised that the CDA is asking this question. Countless cuts in this cabinet have been removed from the table thanks to the efforts of the Christian Union, cuts have been reversed and extra money has come for daily spending. Where was the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u16	That's almost a personal fact. I'm gonna ask you a question and I'm gonna give you this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u17	You'll have a chance to make your point about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u18	Well, let's do that, then, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u19	I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u20	I'll support Mrs Keijzer. What a nerve the Christian Union has to keep such a story here. In recent years, all these measures have been taken with the support of the Christian Union. The EUR 0.5 billion additional cuts in nursing home care exists through the Christian Union. And then she's gonna play a little savior here and say it's got to be off the table. That 0.5 billion exists through the Christian Union. What is the Christian Union going to do about that mistake?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u21	I want to go back in time, to 2012, when the PVV was still in the cabinet, or a partner of the cabinet. The PVV supported the cabinet in the proposals made to make huge savings on care. For example, 90% of budget holders would lose pgb with the previous cabinet's proposals. That would have supported the PVV. The cabinet then fell and the Christian Union, GroenLinks and D66 then made proposals in the spring agreement to preserve the pgb. It worked. That's why all these budget holders still have the pgb. That is the reality. We now hear big talk from the PVV as if it were the saving angel, but what does that prove in practice? Nothing at all. In 2012 it was not so long ago and I would like to remind you that the PVV stood for the destruction of the pgb and we were luckily able to rebuild it in the spring agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u22	If Mrs Dik really sees this as true, I do not really know whether there is any point in debating it. Three days after the Cat housebreak, the Koenders agreement was signed with the help of the Christian Union. That's when the breakdown of care started. Rutte I invested three-quarters of a billion dollars in health care. By now, billions and billions have been cut, all with the support of the Christian Union. And the limitation of access to the pgb was achieved with the support of the Christian Union. It is very complicated and very technical, but in the past there was a camp of people who were in favour of restricting access and a camp of people who were in favour of cutting budgets, including the Christian Union. Now everything is done, with the support of the Christian Union! How is it possible that the Christian Union is so poorly aware of the fact that all these cuts have been made thanks to her and that Mrs Dik is now going to squeak a little?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u23	I am very surprised that Mrs Agema is telling me these figures. If I look at the investments in health care in recent years, because that is the reality too, then I see huge amounts of money. We see that the cost of care increases year after year by year, with billions. This would mean that solidarity, the capacity in our society for care, would be exceeded. My group does not want that. That is why we have talked about how we can stop this continuous increase in expenditure on care. What is happening in healthcare at the moment is not that the overall picture is being cut, but that there is less spending, because healthcare spending is still rising. In recent years, the Christian Union has taken the responsibility to adjust where possible. We have been able to increase nearly half a billion dollars to maintain access to daily spending, to ensure that people with dementia keep a place in a nursing home. That is the reality, but if the PVV does not want to hear it, I say to Mrs Agema: look back in the pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u24	People who have to go to court for a right to care. Day-to-day spending on which there is a sharp cut. Own contributions that can no longer be paid by people. It is just something to be proud of, I say to the Christian Union, because its signature is indeed underneath it. Now Mrs Dik can say that she will manage pgb, but if home care is abolished, you will no longer have the right to do so through the pgb. It therefore also abolishes large parts of the pgb. Mrs Dik said something remarkable: if 200 million is added to the nursing homes, then at least the 250 million cuts in 2017 will have to disappear. That would make sense. I support that call. But the other 250 million cuts on disabled people and psychiatric patients, according to the Christian Union, can they continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u25	I would like to look forward to the proposals of the SP on this point. I'll take a look at that then. On behalf of my group, a motion was tabled last year, which was adopted by the Chamber, in which it states that it does not want any further cuts in care. We see that the bottom is reached and the rack is out. That is why we are not faced with any further cuts in care. If the SP says that the cuts that have been made now should be removed and if there are opportunities for doing so, then we should certainly do so with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u26	There are plenty of opportunities for the half billion that is being cut back on institution care as of 2017 and the signature of the ChristianUnion is in fact written in a different way. That is possible, because these are political choices. My point is that the Christian Union says here: there is investment in nursing homes, we forget the nursing homes and closing them, we forget the disabled and the long-term psychiatric patients living in an institution. If the Christian Union were a bit pure, it would say: no, this half billion cuts can't at all, we're just not going to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u27	Work is currently under way to improve nursing care. I'm very happy about that. The cabinet is apparently willing to make additional money available for this purpose. I see that there is still a great deal to do in disability care too. When there's room, when we can make money for it, when we can do something about the rewards for drivers and the waste in care, then I'm the first to say that we're going to invest in care. My group, too, has always said that we simply have to get rid of all the top benefits in health care. On that point, the SP and I wholeheartedly agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u28	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u29	I have one final point, the legalization. The Christian Union is convinced that we need more ombudsmen and women. No one has been helped with the legalization of care. It costs a lot of money, and in the meantime, people are deprived of good care. A municipality like Meppel shows that there is another way. There is a strong ombud function there and there are hardly any objections to the decisions on domestic aid. What will the Secretary of State do to strengthen the ombud function and prevent further legalisation? Yesterday I looked at the petition website. Almost 800,000 signatures have been signed. My group believes that the Secretary of State cannot and should not ignore this. I have just touched on a few points. I couldn't go into everything, but well, next week we'll talk again at the general consultation on decentralisation. I would like to hear the reaction of the Secretary of State to the petition and the five individual points. What is the Secretary of State going to do to remove the concerns?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u30	Mr. Chairman. Worrying about the care. Under this title I have spent the last two and a half years in many municipalities in the Netherlands talking about all the reforms in healthcare. Sometimes to my surprise I did so every time for halls full of people who came to a town hall or district center on their free evenings to hear what is going on and to express their concerns. The research that keeps the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau regular, the Citizens' Perspectives, shows that care concerns are almost equal with concerns about international security and how we deal with each other. In that sense I was not surprised at how quickly FNV and CNV have collected almost 800,000 signatures. In the petition, labour market effects are at the top of the agenda, i.e. the consequences for people working in health care. The downside of that medal is, of course, the consequences for those who need care. The CNV has sent us a letter and is talking to the cabinet to see in particular what we can do to mitigate the negative effects of cabinet policy on people in need of care. I find that extremely interesting. I would therefore like to hear the Secretary of State's views on this matter. The CDA submitted a number of amendments to the new Social Support Act, in particular to strengthen the position of carers and the family of people in need of care. The Secretary of State advised negatively and the Chamber voted against by a majority. Is the Secretary of State prepared to respond positively to these proposals from the CDA? Does he even want to prepare for a law change? You can't know, so I'm gonna try again today anyway. The General Court of Auditors and the Ombudsman conclude that the introduction of the right of draw was not central to the human dimension. Literally, the report states that at some point the eye completely deviated from man and that there was only an eye for the system. Does the Secretary of State also consider that the introduction of all health care reforms in relation to the Wmo, community care and long-term care has lost sight of people? The CDA thinks so, but that should not be surprised by the fact that we voted against the Wmo in the end. The Secretary of State is a master in the laying of emergency bandages. The household aid allowance is an example of this. Unfortunately, it is not effective. It leads to an enormous amount of bureaucracy and does not lead to those more jobs in the care that the PvdA and the VVD say they do it for. The CDA has already tabled a motion to put that money into the Municipal Fund. Then you're rid of all that bureaucracy and can be used for actually more people who care for housekeeping. What's going on with that now? Is it better now than in spring? Then the Secretary of State said it was too soon. Maybe by now he can tell us if it's effective. This government wants to move from systems to people. That is good, but then I have three specific questions for today to check whether that really is the case. Is this Secretary of State prepared to no longer refer vulnerable and needy citizens to the courts when municipalities, health offices or health insurance companies act in violation of the law at the expense of these citizens but to assist them in their search? Is the Secretary of State prepared to appeal to municipalities which impose too high their own contributions and to give them back their own contributions? Is this Secretary of State finally prepared to investigate the income effects of all health care reforms for chronically ill, disabled and elderly people, as proposed several times by the CDA? An answer that happens at Prince's Day through the so-called purchasing power plates is a bit of a screw-up, as the specific situation of chronically ill is not included.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u31	Mr. Chairman. A noisy and spicy year for care in the Netherlands. No one can get around the changes, which sometimes come about squeaking and creaking. The petition Save the care, with more than 770,000 signatures from Mrs Carla Dik-Faber, I have now understood that it is 800,000 people who give a serious sound. D66 supports the objectives underlying reforms in healthcare: closer care, more self-direction and more tailor-made opportunities. We also think it is important that care remains accessible to generations afterward. Current reforms should therefore lead to better and sustainable care. We see that everyone, municipalities, health insurance companies, health care institutions, professionals and this Secretary of State, are working very hard to get this done. But we shouldn't put our heads in the sand either. People have concerns, too. This petition is also an expression of that. The implementation leaves much to be desired. We haven't been doing that long and of course it's a huge operation, but we do see problems in the implementation. The pgbs are screwed. Sometimes older people have to wait more than a month for a wheelchair. There is a lot of justified and unjustified discussion about their own contribution. I see people wandering around in the system and, for example, they don't know what is meant by a letter from the CAK, which uses another method of calculation. Does the Secretary of State also receive any sounds that it has actually become a lot more complex at the moment and, if so, what is he going to do about it? Let me give you an example. In a column doctor Michiel Tebbes wrote: I would actually like to be a doctor again, I just want to be a doctor again for my patients and not for the health insurance company, the government or any registration, I want to be a doctor for the patient. I was shocked, because if that is the ambition in the care, there is still a lot to be done. We have had several debates on this subject. D66 believes that the guidelines, protocols and systems should be at the service of care and should not dominate. We're seeing the opposite right now. How will the Secretary of State turn this tide? This is not something from the past three years, this of course played before. I have a number of questions about the implementation. Can the Secretary of State indicate how he is going to use the funds released for nursing care so that it actually ends up with the people in care? How will the Secretary of State simplify the household aid payment? We have a lot of municipalities in the Netherlands that have very often different methods of accountability and invoicing. How can we simplify this so as to make it easier for healthcare providers to do their jobs and reduce regulatory burden? I also explicitly call for attention to be paid to the disabled and youth care sectors. It seems as if the debate is a bit focused on the nursing homes. I think that is right, but there are also problems in disability care and youth care. D66 supports the common thread of the petition. Yes, quality must be guiding, money must be spent on care and, of course, clients must be given the right care, but we can only do so together. I also see good examples of this. This week, municipalities, trade unions and home aid organisations joined forces for decent working conditions. I think that's necessary. We were also very happy with the CNV's letter to see how we can solve this. The title of this debate should have been D66 instead of "Save the care" "Improve the organisation of the care" or "Give the care back to the care." Nor should we forget in this debate how good the quality of care is. If I just look at the Birthday programme on maternity care in the world, I think: there is also a lot to be happy about in the care. But that doesn't change the concern about this petition and the tone that we need to be careful with care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u32	Mr. Chairman. More than 700,000 signatures were collected with the petition Save the care, an impressive number. It shows that we in the Netherlands consider care for the elderly and disabled very important, and rightly so. We have built up a welfare state that the PvdA is proud of. But that welfare state was also in need of maintenance. We see it squeaks and creaks in a number of places. I'm thinking of the people who deal with suffocating bureaucracy when they ask for help. Or to the far too big, anonymous care moloches in which people are ground. I am thinking of the care workers who are sent out with stacks of formulation and protocols instead of with their care heart and their expertise. Or to some caregivers who reward themselves generously and at the same time fire their care workers at the workplace. That really had to change. In order to give everyone the certainty of good care in the future, we also had to do something about the ever-increasing costs of care. Sitting still and doing nothing isn't fair to all those people who need care the most. If care becomes priceless, the most vulnerable people become the child of the account. I can't let you do that. That is precisely why we ensure that care remains affordable and available and that costs do not get out of hand. In this way, we ensure that everyone remains sure of a good life in a caring society. When I talk to caregivers and people who need care, I always notice that they're full of ideas how else they can be. The PvdA therefore considers it important that we strengthen people's control over their own care, their own profession. Of course, things are not going well now that the health care changes have just entered into force. Every change takes time. I am also cautiously optimistic, when we see, for example, how many area nurses have been given this year. No longer is an indication ticket determining the care provided but the knowledge and experience of the district nurse himself. This is how we like it: the professionals are again given a grip on their own profession. The petition Red de zorg contains very good ideas, with which the PvdA can join. I'd like to walk past the theories. The first is: no cuts in health care and support at home. Let's face it, no one likes budget cuts. However, it is sometimes necessary, precisely to give people the certainty of good care now and in the future. Looking away and doing nothing is not an option; I said it before. We must now take responsibility for keeping care available and affordable. In the second theorem, the Labour Party is in agreement. Money for care must be spent on care, and profits, bureaucracy and top wages must be reduced. These top rewards are finally being dealt with by the Top Income Standards Act, the strictest in Europe. Unfortunately, a proposal by Mrs Leijten and me to reduce overhead too has not been successful. A right-wing majority in the Chamber voted against it. The Secretary of State did admit to consulting me with the sector in order to deal with the overhead. Can he indicate how far he is and what measures will be taken? Chamberwide, a motion has been adopted to achieve a standard for sufficient staff in a care facility, so that clients can always get the care they need. That is also in line with the third thesis of the petition. Can the Secretary of State state state what's going on with that? When will this standard become a reality in the sector? The last two statements in the petition are about working in healthcare. Working in care is a profession. Volunteers and carers are of enormous value but can never replace professional care workers, nor real jobs in care. You have to be able to live on your own if you're gonna get a job in health care. We do not want forced self-employed workers, who are without rights or who are obliged to turn in their wages. That's important. I read that the cabinet is once again in consultation with social partners. The PvdA thinks that's very important. The Secretary of State has always used this to our satisfaction. Can he tell us what's going on with this meeting? I'm almost at the conclusion, Mr. Chairman, but if you'd like to interrupt first...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u33	Finish your speech, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u34	The concern concerns us all: the signatories of the petition, people who work in care, people who need care and us here in the Chamber. Above all, let us work together to ensure good care. That's good for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u35	You have to do something if you're a party member of a party that supplies the Secretary of State for the demolition of care. Then you're gonna sell that demolition thing. But 92% of the Labour Choosers do not fall for that. They are opposed to the cuts that are now being made. 93% are seriously concerned about the consequences for the people affected. I would like to keep to the Labour Party a promise it made in the past to the workers in the care sector. In 2010 and 2012 the Labour Party, together with the SP, said that there should be a basic rate, so that there can be no wage dumping. Will Mr Van Dijk support that call again in a moment? The Secretary of State is now presenting a General Measure of Management, which is, of course, already a lame illustration of simply regulating a basic rate by law. He promised the trade unions and employers that he would take care of it, but he still hasn't done it two years after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u36	Fighting wage dumping in healthcare is something that binds SP and PvdA, as well as other parties. Measures needed for this, such as a General Measure of Governance and the covenant that has been concluded this week between trade unions, suppliers and employees, all the measures that help to achieve this, have my warm support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u37	So I'll take that as a yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u38	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u39	I have a motion to arrange for the AMvB to go beyond the covenant that has been concluded this week. It is based on a higher collective agreement scale and a enforceable situation, where the agreement does not. So I'm assuming that the Labour Party, if the Secretary of State doesn't say to come in with an AMvB, will sign this motion, so that we can enforce it as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u40	I would like to look at the motion that Mrs Leijten is preparing, but our joint fight against wage dumping in the care sector is, of course, like a house.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u41	Mr Van Dijk spoke warmly about community nursing. The CDA, of course, shares the view that the district nurse is a beacon of care and rest for vulnerable people. But we now know that ActiZ has done research and then said that the need for community care is greater than planned. That makes sense, because people live longer at home. This costs 242 million euros. Will Mr Van Dijk's warm words be accompanied by extra money? I think that's what every neighborhood nurse who listens to this debate is wondering.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u42	I welcome Mrs Keijzer's warm words about the new role of district nurses. Neighborhood nursing is typically a form of craftsmanship that we have said: send her the neighborhood nurse is often a woman or not him with indicative notes or protocols in the neighborhood, but let the neighborhood nurse with her or his care heart do the work. Craftsmanship is central. Give the neighborhood nurse the opportunity to provide the care that is needed and to make arrangements with clients. That kind of care must indeed be paid for. At the moment, I cannot judge to what extent the budget is sufficient. But we've arranged for people to always be entitled to community care. Health insurance companies have also said that they are paying extra money for this. Like Mrs Keijzer, I ask the Secretary of State: is that so? Is that budget too tight? What are we going to do about that next? The macro-management instrument is also being discussed. As far as I'm concerned, people are entitled to community nursing care and the neighborhood nurse can just do her job with her heart of care. If we then have to take action, we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u43	I understand from the media that extra money is being invested in nursing care. I see some consenting gestures, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u44	Oh, I wasn't aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u45	Okay. How does the PvdA group look at nursing care? Are these extra investments necessary? If so, where are we going to bet it? I hear from the field that a lot of nurses are getting fired right now. That's the lower staff. It would be as good as those people with a great heart for care, who with a nursing team are very well able to provide care, can do their job. If we can achieve such a model with each other, I'm satisfied. I'd like to hear how Mr Van Dijk looks at nursing care. Are there going to be additional investments? Are we going to bet that for the caregivers and for coaching on the job?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u46	The Prince's Daypieces are yet to come out, but here would be a very happy MP if extra investments were made in nursing care. I'm not very unhappy here. I think it is important that we invest in this sector with dignity and pride. That's why we made a plan with each other. We believe that people as they grow older should receive care in a loving and warm way, but that quality of life should also be looked at. Care must be in order. We also want people to have a field trip and have contacts. All those things that give life value, we also think are important. So we are all in favour of improving quality of life, including improving quality of life, in nursing care. It seems clear to me that this will ultimately require money, but Mrs Dik-Faber will have to wait until Prinsjesdag for an answer to the question of exactly what is going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u47	I see now in the country that with the nursing home vision in hand there is also a higher level of training for staff. That is, of course, a good thing, because for heavier care, highly qualified staff must be available. On the other hand, many caregivers, people who are less educated, are fired. But you also need those people very much. Can I look together with the Labour Party to see how we can keep those people in with their expertise, warmth and love? Can I then use the Labour Party to see how we can remove the austerity for 2017? After all, it is not consistent that on the one hand a nursing home vision is put together and on the other hand, on the horizon, EUR 250 million goes from it. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u48	The Labour Party is an ally of anyone who wants to work on improving the quality of nursing home care, who wants to make it smaller, who wants to give people more space for their profession and who wants to give people who live in a nursing home or who get nursing care, more sense of life and a valuable life. If the Christian Union wants to cooperate, then very much so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u49	I have the same question to Mr Van Dijk, whom I have just asked Mrs Dik-Faber about the household aid allowance. It is now sometimes used by municipalities to hire cleaning companies, while pure cleaning is not the same as household care. Does Mr Van Dijk share this view and does he agree that we should avoid using this household aid allowance to hire cleaning workers instead of household care workers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u50	Yes, I share that with Mrs Voortman, because this household aid allowance is also intended as an employment measure to keep people in permanent employment. It is not the purpose of the household aid supplement to hire alpha helpers or cleaners.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u51	That's clear. We will first listen to the reply of the Secretary of State. If we do not like his answer, I am counting on Mr Van Dijk's warm support for a motion from me and Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u52	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u53	Mr. Chairman. A few weeks ago I visited Inovum in Wijdemen, a health care institution that works mainly in the surroundings of Hilversum and Loosdrecht. The elderly who live there decide for themselves what their day looks like. They are not all taken out of bed at the same time to have breakfast at the same time. The staff is deployed in good consultation on the basis of the wishes of the individual residents. You can stand on it and have breakfast the moment you want. The same goes for dinner. Under guidance is cooked together to strengthen the homely atmosphere. For those who can and will, it is possible to peel the potatoes together old-fashionedly. I realize that this beautiful image isn't the standard yet. Care and support for the elderly and vulnerable are changing. And that's good, because even if you're dependent on care and support, you should be able to decide for yourself what you want to eat, what time you want to get up and how you want to complete your day. Even that will never be perfect. This change, when we look at what people want, also affects the way we organise care. The support for the petition of the trade unions shows that many people in the Netherlands consider good care important. I get that. I agree. Each of us gives his father and mother, husband or wife, grandpa and grandma a nice place to live. In the context of this change, I understand that the trade unions stand up for the interests of the workers they represent. I also understand that there are institutions that are mainly committed to increasing their own budget. But it is precisely these kinds of ideas that make real changes in care impossible. If you want to focus care and support on what people can do, on what people want and above all on what people need, then you can put the client at the centre. And that means that the institutions that have not gone along with their time may disappear. Unfortunately, it also means that there will be less need for some professions and more need for other professions. Is that fun? No, of course not. Is it inevitable? Absolutely. If we want the patient or client to be truly central, then we must not rely on vested interests. The cynics among the listeners will claim that the VVD is only here to keep a nice story. That affects me and I care. It is important that we have put our housekeeping books in order at this time and that we also keep the care affordable for the longer term, especially for the people who really need it. That's what cuts are for. It is even more important to organise care better. We will only achieve this if we put people at the centre of our work and not the system. I think that is what we are doing now with the reforms of care. The VVD wholeheartedly supports that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u54	I shall give the floor to Mr Krol of the 50PLUS Group as the last speaker on this first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u55	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank all the almost 800,000 people who signed the Red Health petition. Thank you, from the bottom of my heart, for you have made it quite clear that it has been enough with the cuts in care. The Dutch disagree on many things, but we agree on one thing: the cuts in care for the elderly and the disabled are far too severe. In addition, a poll by Maurice de Hond this week showed that as many as 85% of Dutch people do not support the cuts on this concern. That's a clasp-and-ready signal. The number of PvdA voters opposed is 92% and that of the party of the responsible State Secretary. How does the Secretary of State judge this? What does he say about the high number of signatories to this petition? Does he share the opinion of 50PLUS that these figures force him to take action? Above all: what is he going to do in concrete terms? The worst thing is that many will not be surprised by these figures. Think about it. The loss of jobs is 65,000 according to the CBS. These are often older workers who have difficulty getting back to work. In nursing homes, the occupation is increasingly so low that, for example, webcams need to be used increasingly to achieve some supervision of the residents. I don't understand. That's not human anymore, is it? And what about the discount on care at home? A lot of people are in the clinch with their congregation. Municipalities cut or even delete their domestic help without pardon. Carers are becoming increasingly overburdened by the fact that many municipalities are jeopardising day-to-day spending or respite care. You should be lucky to live in a municipality where you can get the right facilities, thanks to the maleded policy freedom of municipalities. Due to the closure of nursing homes, many facilities and activities in the district are lost. As a result, the danger of unification is lurking. However, we still hear about drivers with too high remunerations or about departure premiums whose chills creep you as a well-thought-out person. Is this how we want to deal with the most vulnerable people? Is this how we want to deal with those who, paid or unpaid, want to take care of these vulnerable people with heart and soul? As far as 50PLUS is concerned, the answer to these questions is a loud and clear no, and I would also like to hear that from the Secretary of State. That's why 50PLUS signed the petition. Money for care should be spent on care. No surplus administration and no absurdly high top salaries. There must always be sufficient staff to be able to provide proper care. Caregivers must be valued on a material and intangible basis, as well as caregivers and volunteers. That's what the Netherlands wants. The code responsible market behavior home support, which was presented this week, is a start. I warmly welcome the motion tabled by Mr Leijten and was co-signed by Voortman. I would also like to endorse it, and I sincerely hope that the Labour Party will also sign it or at least vote in favour of this motion. I would like to say to the Secretary of State: whatever code comes, make it binding. Are you willing to do that? Don't let this be noncommittal. Make sure there's an extra budget for nursing home care. Ensure that sufficient domestic assistance remains available and affordable for those who need it. What are you waiting for? I'd tell the Secretary of State. And to all the signatories of the petition and the colleagues here who care as I do: we will meet on September 12th at the Red de zorg demonstration in Amsterdam. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Krol. This brought an end to the first term on the part of the Chamber. I'll suspend the meeting for five minutes, then we'll move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u57	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport for his first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u58	Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of the new political season it might be good to talk again about the reforms in care and also about the petition Save the care. A lot of people signed the Red Health petition. I see this as a sign of commitment and concern and also as an assignment, because we all want good care now. In order to keep that good care accessible and affordable for everyone in the future, we must indeed do our best, because that is not going to be good by itself. We're getting more elderly people who need care. We want to organise care more closely, so that people in their own environment can be helped as much as possible at home. And when things stop going at home, we want good care in institutions that are as "home" as possible. That's why changes are needed, because it doesn't happen automatically. The petition calls for a number of things. Money for care should not be spent on bureaucracy and top rewards but on care. That is, of course, true, and I agree with that. That is why we have started a lot of programmes: how can we combat waste, how can we combat bureaucracy? After perhaps decades of discussion, this cabinet has come up with the Law standards top incomes. Now we can all talk about whether it shouldn't have been faster or perhaps different, but I note that this cabinet has just done something about it. It has not continued to discuss it, and it has not only said 'it is not really desirable', but it has simply taken action. The second point of the petition is: provide sufficient care providers so that care in institutions is of good quality and the people get the care they need. Of course, I very much agree with that. We have made the plan of approach Dignity and pride to further improve the quality of nursing home care in the Netherlands, which is needed if necessary. It is precisely to discuss what quality is needed in the future, to look at what expertise is needed and to look at what changes in monitoring and implementation are needed. We're not doing that for nothing, but because of that point of the petition. The third point of the petition is recognition of the profession of caregiver or nurse: volunteers and carers are of enormous value, but can never replace professional care staff. That's right, of course. At the same time, I would like to move towards an approach in the whole of care, in which we see more and more not only informal care and formal care side by side, but also in cooperation. Good institutions are institutions that manage to have motivated staff with a good staff mix and in which there is tremendous cooperation between carers, volunteers and healthcare professionals. That's it. That's it. That's it. Institutions that manage to do this properly score very high on the satisfaction of clients and residents and their relatives. The fourth point: real jobs with decent...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u59	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u60	I'll let the Secretary of State finish the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u61	But he forgets the first point: do not cut back on care. Maybe he can go into that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u62	No, he's about to answer questions you have. Now I give him the chance to finish the five theories and give him his first short response to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u63	But then he must not forget that first point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u64	The reason why I do not forget the first point is that I would like to go into this more fully. Fourthly, real jobs with decent working conditions and a good contract. That is why we already have the guarantees in the law that a certain quality includes a certain level of remuneration. Therefore, the collective agreement partners have asked themselves and agreed: do you want to make the collective agreement binding which regulates that if you offer domestic help or other forms of WMO care, the collective agreement VVT applies to it? We did. Municipalities and providers, home care organisations and a union I hope several unions have said: how can we draw up a code of responsible market behaviour so that we know what we are talking about and not only have macro guarantees in the law, but also practical instructions and a practical code for purchasing? We have made sector plans to guide people from work to work. We have made extra money available for the household aid allowance, so that we can keep jobs on the one hand and, on the other hand, there may be prospects for new jobs and other employment in the area of domestic assistance and guidance, or combinations of them. I will deal with this later, but I am indeed very willing to sit down with the unions and to stay in order to further strengthen the perspective on the labour market. Indeed, the petition also says: no cuts on care at home. No one gets happy with budget cuts. Neither do I, but sometimes they are needed to keep care affordable in the long term. We also want affordable and good care for our children and grandchildren. People already pay blue to care. It is already difficult for people with a small income to make ends meet. Care costs take a substantial part of our disposable income through taxes and premiums. But we must also remain realistic. In total, we still spend more money on healthcare every year: 72 billion in 2013 and 77.5 billion in 2017. The frame that loses hundreds of thousands of care is just wrong. Is it unreasonable to ask whether you can pay or organise cleaning your house yourself if it leaves money for people who can't, and therefore keep heavier care out of the wind? Compared to the coalition agreement, additional funds have been allocated to ease and phase cuts. With Prinsjesdag I hope to be able to explain further the plans for improving the quality of nursing homes. Yes, that's annoying, but they're needed to keep care affordable, sustainable and accessible in the future, not only for people with a thick wallet but for everyone. Those changes that are needed were not made up today or yesterday, but they have been going on for decades. Very often we talk about "the plans of this cabinet for care," but that is actually too much honor. The changes in care are not just made up by this cabinet or by me alone. The plans have been devised with people involved in the care, with people who believe that care should indeed be saved. First of all, it is the elderly themselves. With associations for patients and the elderly, we looked at how to get people to say something about care again, how to save them from the practice in which people decide far away behind their desks about the care that someone gets. They saw and saw that a change is needed to organize care closer again, and that account is taken of their own environment. I spoke to the chairman of the elderly platform in Nijmegen a few days ago. That platform has written an urgent letter stating that the elderly are desperately waiting for their wishes and personal circumstances to be taken into account. They want to be able to speak to people again, so that, for example, if dementia is detected, there is always someone they can fall back on. That is also the paradox of change: if it is not about systems but about people, we must also be willing and able to change those systems. Then we need The Hague discussions to change the systems, and practical discussions to implement them in practice. I will come back to that later. We also discussed these changes with nurses, whose work we had taken away with the bureaucracy of the indication. We have listened to the nurses and general practitioners who said to us: bring the care and nursing together in one hand; let us visit and give us the space to decide for ourselves what care is needed for the elderly. It's not that easy. To do that, you have to change systems. That's a big deal. It also gives other kinds of indications, but it is necessary to ensure that these professionals have fun in their work again, are proud of their work and visit people again, while they themselves have the freedom to discuss a number of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u65	Mrs Keijzer has a question, if I am not mistaken about the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u66	Yes. The Secretary of State has said a lot, so I wonder what point you're referring to. But let me just ask my question. They are always of those very beautiful views about the necessity, about care and about care close to people. But look at what's going on. Each one sends a letter: 400,000 people are in great uncertainty. ActiZ says there's 242 million deficit for community care, which helps people take a shower at home, for example. A lot of high-age people have to get justice. Those are the people who can handle it. I'm a former lawyer myself, and I'm not getting hot or cold from a lawsuit. For a lot of people, however, that is a huge step. Isn't it a bit off because of the great haste with which all healthcare reforms have been implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u67	I will come back to the specific examples. Let's take care of the neighborhood. The signal is that we may need to spend more money on that. The insurers note that we may need to contract more for this. Look how that works: there is no discussion about whether this care should be contracted. People have a right to that. Parties say that this may lead to a higher budget. I don't know yet. All this remains to be seen, because these are predictions and realization figures. What I like is that parties who have to buy the district nurse care point out to the government that this could lead to a higher budget. They want to talk to us. We'll have that conversation. It is still far too early to establish whether it is, but I note that insurers say that they should contract about the right to care. If the care changes, is asked if we can organize it a little differently, or see if the household care can be reduced a little bit, I understand very well that that is just not funny. Sometimes that just sucks. That does not mean, however, that you should not have the discussion. If we want to take more account of personal circumstances, what one wants or cannot organise and pay for oneself, then we will have to make those kinds of choices. That's not an unreasonable question, is it? I also see that in practice this sometimes goes very well and that good discussions are being held with good treatment. People sometimes say that what they were hoping for is happening now. Of course things also go wrong and sometimes the treatment is not good. People say they're not at all satisfied with what happened to them. They'll go to court. I find that very unfortunate and worthless. We need to avoid legalization. However, it turns out that we have made a law on which the judge says in such cases: indeed, the municipality should have conducted a more careful process and the decision has to be changed. I am not pleased that this should happen, but I also note that we have incorporated safeguards into the law that ensure that this happens carefully, and that there are means to reverse something if it does not happen carefully enough. Isn't that how we're supposed to deal with these reforms?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u68	According to the CDA, no. We have already said that it is moving far too fast. The CDA has also said: pay attention to the middle incomes. The Secretary of State just said it's okay that people with fat wallets pay for the care themselves. In practice, people with an income above 120% of the statutory minimum wage are no longer reimbursed by the municipality. Does the Secretary of State know what 120% of the minimum wage is? That's about $20,000 gross per year. If that's a big wallet, I think people who have to deal with it have a completely different reality to the Secretary of State. That is also the result of this policy, which is not sufficiently thought out. This is the same as what I have just said: has it not been introduced much too quickly? Aren't the effects you're seeing for the people they concern horrible? Does the Secretary of State consider that it might have been wise to postpone or phase it out for a year after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u69	Can I tell Mrs Keijzer some facts about what has been done in the area of domestic aid since the coalition agreement? The savings of 89 million in 2014 have been deleted. The budget cut of 975 million originally has been reduced to 465 million. With the healthcare agreement, half a billion more has become available. In 2015 and 2016, 270 million extra were made available to maintain employment of home help. If you add all this together, there's a $300 million cut left. That's less than the CDA's election program says. So shall we try to keep some realism in the debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u70	Now the Secretary of State is asking for it. What he is now calling all here is a displacement of sums and less high cuts. I am sorry that this Secretary of State, every time you address him on the effects of his policy on 400,000 chronically ill, mentally disabled and elderly people in uncertainty, will not go beyond an you-bowl. That's typical, you'd almost say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u71	Mrs Keijzer cannot object that, when she talks about the scale and effects of the cuts, I should just like to point out what the cabinet and myself have done to ensure that they can be phased out and partly softened, precisely to get that phasing in, and that we have finally reached a sum that is lower than she herself had foreseen in her election programme. That's not a you-bowl, that's a fact of fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u72	If the General Court says that policy making in 2015 was more important than carefully implementing policies, then that's quite a lot. The same applies to the cuts in household care and the introduction of the WMO. It's great that people can go to court, but of course it's a shame they have to do this. All those people who don't go to court, but see their home care cut short, they're at home alone. And then the Secretary of State says it's great that people can go to court. No, they have to go to court because the Secretary of State hasn't arranged for people to simply have the right to domestic care, to daily spending and to protect against a municipality that cuts harder than the Empire. It's nice talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u73	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u74	I would have liked to ask a question earlier, Mr President, but that was not possible at the time. Now I need this. 83% of the population of the EU, and that extends to all parties, say they are concerned about vulnerable citizens. 85% of the population says the cuts are going too fast. Didn't all these people get it right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u75	You didn't hear me say that I love having people go to court. I just said the opposite. You shouldn't misquote me. I think we agree that we should not go to court to ensure that people are treated properly. I note, however, that we have a law that requires a careful procedure from the municipalities to determine and determine the question of care. I also note that where that doesn't happen and people go to court, which you don't want, but what their right is, the judge confirms it. I also note that, in many municipalities, very careful consideration is being given to how we can organise care in a new way. There are conversations with people, in which perhaps for the first time not only an indication and azzp number is given, but in which people actually look at what someone needs in their specific situation. It looks at how they can work together to ensure that the support takes place properly. I think that eventually this will lead to a sustainable way of caring and taking more account of personal wishes, rather than supposedly regulating a right that comes to you afterwards, through a letter that you don't understand, and which doesn't support you very well. And of course, those people aren't wrong. We all have concerns about care in the future. What do you think I'm doing? "Save the care" is not a call in the sense of "it goes wrong and we look at it." We're working every day to save care, given the developments we're about to get. We need to respond to changing demographics and ageing. We have to respond to the fact that people have different wishes. We have to respond to the fact that there is a heavier concern. Then it's reasonable to ask people for something. Let's see if people can arrange the cleaning of their homes themselves or pay for them themselves. If they can't pay or solve that, there's plenty of resources. Isn't that what we're doing? So I understand these concerns very well. I think it is up to us and politics to address these concerns and to take action so that there is a perspective and we can still be very proud of the care we are already proud of and have achieved a great deal in the future. It is not all sorrow and torment, but we have to change to make sure that it stays good, not only now but also for our children and grandchildren.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u76	What happened to the Labour Party, with which I acted together, and felt that domestic care was not a clean-up? You don't get that for your feet, but because you can't do it anymore. It is the first step towards real care provision. In the household care work professionals who keep an eye on how someone is doing. But the Secretary of State for the Labour Party says here it's cleaning. Where are the times when the Labour Party stood up for people who couldn't do that themselves? I find it sad that the Secretary of State is here defending that the cuts can be made, while 85% of our population are going to be cut, and that is what all parties are going to find out that it is going too fast and too fast. Does the Secretary of State really want to say that 85% of the population did not understand correctly? Does 85% of the population have to be ashamed of the fact that someone in one municipality has to go to court for care, while the other municipality is trying to tie the austerity ropes together? Does the Secretary of State really want to say that this is not due to political choices made by the Secretary of State of the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u77	I would not like to be ashamed of the fact that people who want to stay home for longer are going crazy about what they all have to arrange and what there are and what there are not. A lot of people want to live at home for longer, because they don't want to go to a nursing home or care home at all, or at least want to go there much less people than they used to. So if we want to make that possible, we must be able to make it possible to have a conversation in which we look together at what is possible and what is not possible. If people want medical care at home, I would not be ashamed of the fact that we are now trying to abolish the bureaucracy of the indication and give the healthcare professional his job again. Then you can decide what needs to be done at home in consultation. Nor should I be ashamed of the fact that we are now looking at care in nursing homes not at thezzp'ers or at the amount of health indicators available, but at the quality of life. I would not be ashamed to see that we take greater account of personal wishes and circumstances in this situation and that we give more control to clients and relatives. I wouldn't be ashamed of that. With all these changes, it's going to be different than it is now. Everyone will wonder what it's going to mean, how we're going to go through that change and whether there's good care for everyone. We all have those concerns. But if you look at the development of the healthcare budget that this government comes up against, I also note that there is still more money for care every year. So we are making changes, and if we dare to work together with employers, employees, care organisations and client organisation, and so together to shape the transition, the change, I think the perspective is very good. Then we can maintain a high level of care in the Netherlands, even in a situation where we will be faced with heavier care questions. It's not gonna happen on its own. Those who do not think of it think of it as: after us the flood. I just don't see that line. We do not agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u78	Mrs Leijten, this is your third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u79	I advise the Secretary of State to read the paper. In it we can read daily that high-age people have to go to court and that district nurses are going to die of bureaucracy. I am simply asking the Secretary of State to answer the question whether the 85% of the population who are worried about the fact that the cuts are going too fast is wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u80	Again, these people are not wrong. If there are changes and cuts, of course you're worried about them. Everyone's worried about that. That makes sense, doesn't it? Isn't it true that we are making a change so that care in the Netherlands remains available in a sustainable way? Let me take another example, because now it seems that the cabinet has made all this up and it is not a discussion of decades. In 2012, the SER issued an opinion on the future of long-term care. FNV and CNV together with the employers' organisations in the ESC gave an opinion on long-term care. The ESC also said that care should be saved from increasing costs and called for more care in the neighbourhood, close to people, co-organised by municipalities. There was also a call for a rethink of long-term care, with older people having to pay for light care more themselves and the heavier care remains collectively insured. This was an opinion from employers and employees in 2012. Isn't that exactly what we're doing? Of course, those changes are causing concern. Of course, they all have to look very closely at whether things are going well, including in the execution. If necessary, we must appeal to municipalities or providers if things go wrong. It does mean that we should outline this perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u81	The Secretary of State just came up with a list of facts that he wouldn't want to be ashamed of. Would he like to be ashamed of the 65,000 people who have now been fired, of all those managers who still give themselves large salaries, of the fact that the occupation standard is still not regulated, so that sometimes only two people are on a whole department or someone is on their own the night? Those are the things that matter. For those reasons, people signed the petition. I hear the Secretary of State express warm words about the petition, but he does explain it in a way in which I do not think the people who signed the petition recognize themselves at all. So I asked the Secretary of State if he would not be ashamed of the loss of jobs, of the people who still pay top salaries and of the fact that we still do not have that occupation standard. Will he stop interpreting the petition in a way that the people who signed the petition don't recognize themselves in?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u82	I recognize the concerns and also the anger of people. These changes are sometimes accompanied by cuts and sometimes also by job losses. That, of course, is worthless for the people; that makes sense of course. But what I'm saying is this. If we want to make everyone's care affordable and sustainable in the future by looking at whether people can regulate the light form of support themselves or, where possible, pay for themselves so that we can keep the heavier care out of the wind, this leads to changes and sometimes to job losses. That's exactly why I invited the unions. I want to talk about that and see what we can do to make sure those changes go well. There will indeed be job losses on one part, but perhaps an increase in employment on another. I want to sit down with the unions to see how we can go through this process together and how we can put the perspective on the labour market and create other jobs. When we have the debate on the quality of nursing homes, we will discuss how to link the job losses on the one hand and perhaps the increase in employment on the other hand much more closely. It is really necessary to shape this change with each other, employers and employees, municipalities and providers. You can't say, "We're not gonna do anything for a while." 'Cause if we don't change anything, it's not gonna go well. The change of care doesn't go by itself. The sustainability of care is not self-evident. We will have to shape that change with each other. Of course, it has to be with a great deal of attention for the people it happens to. And, of course, we are pulling everything out of the box to make sure that we can control this employment development a little bit. And of course we pull everything out of the closet to make sure that there are decent working conditions. And of course we pull everything out of the closet to prevent them from becoming alpha helpers, of which the first successes are already visible. So that concern is my concern, too. However, that is no reason to sit back and not go through that change. I call for an answer to be given to the question of how we can solve these consequences, which are sometimes worthless, with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u83	People who work in care and who need care, are just yelling for changes. They also want changes, but not the changes proposed by the cabinet. They do not want to see huge cuts in household care. What they do want is for something to happen to the bureaucracy. What they do want is for top salaries to be dealt with right now. What they do want is for that line-up standard to come. This Secretary of State puts people away as people who don't want to change, but he doesn't care at home when it comes to the changes that people in care really ask for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u84	I don't recognize that. I just indicated that just this cabinet, instead of talking, has come up with a Law standards top incomes. In the debate we had with each other on the quality of foster care, we said that it would be good to have a staff standard. We're working on that right now. I hope to be able to present that staff standard to the Chamber in January 2016. That's what we agreed on. We are now looking at how the quality of nursing homes can be improved in a way that people are waiting for. It concerns the quality of life, a different level of supervision and indeed the expertise and training of staff. Isn't that what we're doing with each other? Now let's not pretend there are two worlds in which we share different concerns. Many people understand that we need to change something in care in order to preserve it for the future. They understand that this also requires difficult choices and that we must take everything out of the box to ensure that this process is done properly, to address people's concerns, to maintain employment and to offer prospects for the future. We need to think about staff standards, about overhead, about waste and about bonuses. But that's what we're all doing, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u85	I want to bring the discussion back a little bit to the here and now. I do see an urgent problem. Right now, people are really stuck in the system. One of the objectives of the Secretary of State is to make it easier. But if you see what clients need to get an indication... the healthcare professionals and the healthcare providers on the other hand say that it's just not fun to be a professional anymore. In my input I indicated that a doctor said: I just want to be a doctor again; I'm just doing ticks and protocols. I know this isn't just a problem for the past three years. It played before, but it has increased because of all the changes. What is this Secretary of State going to do here and now to make it easier for clients, healthcare providers and professionals, also looking at the many municipalities that are all working differently again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u86	That is a valid point. One of the biggest problems in healthcare over the past few decades is how to combat protocolisation, bureaucracy and administrative burdens. That is why this issue is really high on my agenda. For example, for the purposes of contracting with municipalities and healthcare providers, we have now discussed the possibility of jointly tackling this problem by drastically reducing the large number of product codes. This has been agreed and the number of product codes is now reduced. In addition, we aim to standardise agreements. Municipalities and providers talk about what is needed and what is not. This also applies to the bureaucracy of all kinds of registrations. When we think about the quality of nursing homes, we must at the same time consider what should and should not be recorded and what can be disposed of. We must ensure that care professionals are given more space in this respect too. For the first three months, the district nurses saw that they were given a lot of freedom, but also that they had to fill in a lot of papers. We are now in the process of drastically reducing the burden of funding and registration. The first signs of this are positive. When I talk to district nurses, they say that it was very hard work with those indications at first, but also that they now find that they are getting the space. This is a bit of a long answer, but I very much agree with Mrs Bergkamp that the waste, bureaucracy and overhead are points that must go hand in hand with this change.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u87	That sounds very nice and one of the objectives of the whole change is to tackle bureaucracy. However, I also see that the government is coming up with new bureaucracy again. I find it very painful that people who have a sick child or a sick partner have lost so much time to take care of them. Does the Secretary of State acknowledge that it has become more complex at the moment? I hope that the Secretary of State will attach to this what he can do in the short term to make it easier for these people. I'm afraid the support for this system is a little feeble. It will help greatly if this effort is made and people see its benefits, such as the fact that one of the objectives of transformation, namely simplification, is also getting closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u88	I agree with that, too. I understand very well that if you've spent years trying to take care of things properly and you've finally got it together, it's just really annoying when the municipality has to re-indicate because it's now a municipal responsibility. I get that you're worried about how it's gonna be, whether people know what's going to happen, whether you need to explain it again, and whether you need to fill out new forms. That is why I am and will remain in conversation with the municipalities to ensure that this is done in a simple way. However, that movement is necessary. If we now say that bureaucracy must be stopped and that the indication must be replaced remotely by an indication closer, then the municipality must of course know what is going on with that citizen. So we need a re-indication, but I understand very well that the word alone causes a lot of unrest. However, this re-indication can also lead to continued care or to more time being taken to map the situation properly. Sometimes it will also be discussed the possibility of caring for a different price or by another provider. This is sometimes difficult, depending on the situation. I am and will continue to work with the municipalities to see how we can simplify this process and how we can bring peace here. People will always be affected, because another government is going to see what's going on. However, this must be done in such a way that people are properly treated and that they are given good information in advance so that they can understand when what is happening and what is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u89	More than 730,000 people signed this petition, also to indicate that they do not believe the Secretary of State's smooth talk and do not trust it. For example, they don't believe in his mantra that people don't want to go to a nursing home. People do miss the nursing home in their street or neighborhood when it closes. That is why I ask the Secretary of State whether the petition, which has been so overwhelmingly signed, is a reason for him not to use such mantras anymore. If so, why did he just use it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u90	In the current situation, it seems that in the care of the elderly a choice can be made between the possibility of living at home and institutional care. I do not know if it is a mantra, but I would point out that every research and conversation with the elderly about how they look at their lives shows that they prefer to remain independent in their own environment for as long as possible and that they do not want to become lonely. That is very difficult, because we have to stay home longer and try to arrange it in a different way. Sometimes the loneliness or concerns about care in the future are so great that someone prefers to live together or with a number of similar people. Or sometimes someone says: can I live in a home where there is a lot of attention to the quality of life? I can see that, too. That is why I think we should go to care for the elderly, where the choice no longer goes between home or in an institution, but where there are many more intermediate forms, where home care is very good. 80% of people with dementia live in a home situation. Why don't we pay attention to that? A lot of people say they're lonely at home. Why don't we pay attention to that? We should not say to each other: it is best to go to an institution. Because people don't want that either. I want people to have much more choice between home, an institution and all possible intermediate forms, and that our care adapts to people's needs rather than people having to adapt to the offer. That's a very tricky theme. For that, we have to go through rowing and windows. Sometimes we have to break down systems for that. Sometimes we have to discuss existing rights, about which people are really insecure. But it is very worth fighting for the future's concern to be more human-oriented and closer, and to take more account of personal circumstances. I understand that the movement from now to later can be experienced as "a beautiful story, but is there any point in that?', "I'd like to believe it, but what is the implementation practice?" That is why we will have to pay incredible attention to implementation practice. How do municipalities and providers do it? Are we listening enough to the people? To speak with Mrs Bergkamp, we need to pay a great deal of attention to how things work in practice, because that is what people experience. They want to believe in the perspective, but their opinion is, quite rightly, determined by how things are today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u91	It is quite clear that the Secretary of State maintains his mantra that the nursing homes close because the people themselves want to stay home longer. That's some bullshit. That's why these people sign the petition: because it's bullshit and because they miss the nursing home in their neighborhood because that's where the demolition ball goes in. People with dementia can no longer go there for daily use, which means that admission can be postponed for half a year to a whole year. People are pissed off about shutting down the nursing home. They are dealing with a Secretary of State who insists that people want to do so themselves. That's a self-made mantra! And do you know why, Mr. Chairman? Platform31 recently conducted an investigation. This shows that 65% of the elderly simply want the care homes back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u92	I think people want a lot more choice in how they live. Sometimes that is clustered living, sometimes there are residential care centres where someone lives independently but gets care at home. There are also people who need more care. People need to be able to choose how they want to live and be cared for at every stage of their lives. We need to get rid of the unit sausage. I would just like to comment on the comment on mantra. Mrs Agema would not deny that the number of 80-plussers has doubled over the last 15 to 20 years and the number of care places has been halved. That didn't happen because of policy, did it? Isn't that because people make different choices than they used to? In the current situation people go to a nursing home at 80th or 85th, whereas it used to be much earlier. That's really changed. I call for that change to be taken into account. We need to look at what is needed for care at home and what the quality of the nursing home should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u93	I gave the Secretary of State my book Silver for the holidays. In this context, I would like to explain on a point-by-point basis the policy changes which have reduced the number of nursing homes since the 1980s and which have now become zero. I'd like to advise him to read the book after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u94	I call Mr Potters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u95	I think I recognize what the Secretary of State says about what people really want. I think a lot of people prefer to live at home and maybe, if they really have to, go slowly to an institution in a hybrid form. But they do not want to end up in an institution. When they are there, there must of course be good care and they want a personal approach, but a lot of people say: let me live at home, in my own environment, and give me the support where I need it. I am glad that the Secretary of State is behind that line, because that is also the line for which the VVD has always worked. I would like to know from the Secretary of State to what extent he supports the idea of the next person's funding. We've been saying for a long time that we have to try to put the client, the person at the centre and give them the tools to organize care close by. We've asked questions about that before. I think this debate is a good time to think about it and see how far we are with it. Can the Secretary of State also make a commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u96	As you know, at the request of the Chamber, we are doing a number of experiments with personal funding. I have also said before that I think the idea of personal funding is a very good idea. It means that you are paid as an institution or healthcare provider to the extent that people choose you. So that's a very nice idea. At the same time, there are disadvantages. We have all kinds of institutions with a certain infrastructure and in which people live and therefore no longer have the certainty of a budget in advance but which depend on people's choices. I think it is going that way in the end, but with the speed and the advantages and disadvantages that are also going to arise for healthcare providers, while also taking care of the continuity of care, we will have to take full account of them. That is why we have agreed to do a number of experiments. The idea of getting the money to follow the people themselves rather than getting it to them via the offer is, of course, very exciting and exciting, and we want to look very closely at the advantages and disadvantages, which we want to detect through these experiments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u97	I get that. As far as the concern for the future is concerned, this kind of new ideas is important. I understand this isn't settled overnight. However, if we want to put the client at the centre, these are developments that I think we really need to stimulate. Could the Secretary of State clarify when the pilots have been completed and when we can discuss them in the Chamber? Then we can also discuss the advantages and disadvantages, and perhaps by means of legislation we can anchor some of these possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u98	I intend to draw up a report in November following the motion tabled by you and Mr Van Dijk on the renewal agenda. In the letter that goes with it, we will also discuss the state of play regarding the next person's funding. I have just made a number of comments on the need for change. The paradox is that if you want to bring care closer to people, you also have to break down some systems, just because you go from systems to people. This involves a lot of discussions about the Hague practice. Much more important is how this new practice is experienced by the people at home. That is also where I test all the questions that live in the field: where are we now? Do people at home already notice that things are getting better or do they not notice at all and are they still uncertain about what all these changes mean to them? Let us also be realistic on that point. The question whether things are going well is not to answer with a simple yes or no. I don't want to be the doomsday prophet who says everything goes wrong in health care. Then we have too little regard for what did not go well before in healthcare and what affected people, while not taking into account their personal wishes and circumstances. I'm not someone who says, "I'm fine." Reforming takes time and comes with uncertainty. Especially when it comes to something essential such as caring for our elderly people, we must be very careful about it. I see very good examples of how it can be done and how it should be done. I also see examples of cases where things are not going well and where we need to adjust. A neighborhood nurse, Ellen from the Veluwe, said: last year I had to call the CIZ, fill out papers and call back, which was all very complicated; I had a lot of work in the first three months to get that re-indication, but I do notice that I have now been given much more space to provide the care I like in consultation with the clients. Furthermore, she indicates: I come to a high-age couple and I notice that there are not only a care question but also other questions, where I can now switch with the municipality to look at that too. I think of Annette in the documentary De Waatkamer doing her story as a caregiver for her husband and children, who suffer from progressive muscle disease. Her family has been indicated for years without ever being visited by anyone who went over it. In doing so, indications are given to him in 2025, in which no one wonders: would nothing change at that time and should we not once talk about how things are actually going with the gentleman and the lady? The belief to bring that concern closer and take human measure as a starting point, those are the stories that inspire of course. Things aren't going well either. This has already been discussed in this Chamber. There are municipalities that have reduced domestic aid without considering whether this could be done in individual cases. The lawsuits should not be necessary; we have already discussed this. So they're a thorn in my eye, too. There are municipalities that do not yet have the right to provide customization based on a personal conversation. I have just said that the district nurses can see that the perspective is there but the first period has had a lot of work on the registrations and re-indications. So yes, that personal approach can and should be better, the administrative burden must and can be reduced, the quality of care can be better, with more attention to the personal situation of family and caregiver. But that is a whole process in which we also have to learn, where things go wrong, where we should not run away from it but ensure that care is provided, where we must address parties when it goes wrong and where it needs to be communicated openly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u99	Did the Secretary of State now say that it is a good thing, for example, that people with ALS are re-indicated?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u100	No, because there are two aspects to that. On the one hand, these people should not have to prove every time that they have that disease and that care is needed. On the other hand, I think it is important that we regularly check whether things are still going well. Does care need to be adjusted, has anything changed? If you used to have an indication until 2025, no one would look at it anymore. That is not the concern we want to have with each other. I wish people wouldn't have to prove that something's going on every time. I would also like to see a regular review of whether it is still true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u101	So that's the opposite of what's happening. In the end, people who are sick and are getting worse will make their own calls when they need more care. But that's not what's happening. What happens is that they are constantly re-indicated. They're already in that wheelchair and they can't get out of there. Or they know they have ALS and they're dying. Then comes the government, which wants re-indications over and over again. People are really sick and sick of it. They're sicker from the government than they are from their illness.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u102	First the indicative body assessed the situation, now the municipality is going to do so and review it again. I understand very well that this is already causing a lot of unrest. I just turned that in. People have often struggled so long to get that care and now think, "Oh dear, what's happening?" That therefore requires a great deal of the way in which municipalities do this. In the end, if we want to get to a more personal concern, where we know who we are talking about, where we are not just talking about indications and care packages but about people, we also need to have these conversations. Then it is also necessary for the municipality to know what is going on with its citizens. This can be the subject of normal conversations that you don't have to be afraid of, but in which a municipality is not in front of but next to the citizen, conversations in which it is jointly considered what is best in this situation. Are we there yet? No, not by a long shot. But should we be on our way there? Yeah, I have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u103	The outcome of all these re-indications is always less concern. One time the pets are no longer cared for, the other time the windows are only lapped to eye level. That's what happens, every time hours off, every time care off, every time help off. Then the Secretary of State is here defending that it is a good thing that these people are re-indicated. As I said, these people are getting sicker from government re-indications than from the disease they already have. The Secretary of State is trying to have a nice chat again to just take care and save money, about the backs of the people who are already sick and who know that they will only get sicker in the future. If they need more care, they'll ring the bell themselves for more care. So those re-indications are completely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u104	I spoke to the mother of a multi-disabled boy who spent two or three days a week on the day and then had to be picked up every time by taxi to be taken 100 kilometers further to that day's spending. She was very satisfied with that day-to-day spending. Now the conversation took place as to whether it was so convenient and whether the daily spending could not be organized closer to what the boy might be able to make better use of and go to sooner. Indeed, that is even cheaper and better quality because the lady has much more contact with the caregivers, because her son can be happy there and maybe also has boyfriends that he can meet with in between. Those examples are also available. So there are bad examples and good examples. The question is, what are we going to do with each other? Are we going to take the bad examples as a standard and say that everything is going wrong? Or are we just going to outline with each other the perspective of how it should actually be, highlight the good examples and address the bad examples?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u105	This is the trick the Secretary of State is using all the time: to give a good example to poignant examples. This makes it clear that the Secretary of State does not set standards. He has introduced the freedom-lucky policy with a tough cut in municipalities. He lets municipalities go their own way when they strictly abolish home care, when they say "no, we don't iron anymore with people who can't do it themselves," which means that people say that they really don't dare to come among people anymore. How dare you talk about tailor-made care? If that happens, then it is the choice of the municipality, of good aldermen and local politicians, but certainly not of this Secretary of State, because he has not arranged for it to apply to everyone. Then there's something else about tailor-made care. Who's gonna deliver that custom-made care anyway? Those are the workers in the care. What does the Secretary of State now think of them more and more indicating that they can no longer provide tailor-made care at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u106	That's two points. On the first point: yes, we have indeed given the municipalities more freedom to make policies tailored to the local situation. I didn't calculate it, but maybe the SP now has more aldermen in the local situation than the Labour Party. I would like to express some confidence from this place in all those aldermen who are trying to shape the care tailored to their needs. I am confident that its intention is to do it in a good way. I do not want to assume in advance that it is all wrong because 'The Hague' can do better and the municipalities can't. I think that the municipalities can do better, because they know the people and because people can pass by and take personal circumstances into account. I have spoken with many aldermen, including aldermen from Mrs Leijten's party, who are doing this in an incredibly good way. So yes, we can express that confidence in them as well. That we have to discuss the guarantees in the law here, or that those guarantees need to be strengthened and that we need to appeal to parties; we do so. We have made safeguards about appropriate provisions for a reason. We have made guarantees about a careful care process for a reason, which the judge also confirms. It is not for nothing that we have made the agreement that the quality and the associated rates must be right. That's what we did to each other. The discussion is then whether we are confident that municipalities, with these guarantees, are going ahead and able to deliver individual tailor-made solutions where possible. I think this is another trial of falling and getting up, but it's worth fighting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u107	Whether I have faith in aldermen, of any color, is irrelevant. It is about legislation, which applies to everyone in the country, where there is no legal inequality. I sometimes see aldermen of the VVD doing very nice things. I speak to many aldermen, not only of the SP but actually of all parties, who say: Van Rijn's policy is really a crime, we do not get out of the pgb, we are cut off on domestic care, the distribution model of youth is not right; we are in the hair; we cannot offer vulnerable citizens what we should and want to offer because Van Rijn is going on and on. And then he dares to show off other people's feathers. I think it's a dare. I'm asking another question. Care continuity is provided by the people who do the work. Now I've been in Lochem in Gelderland the past week. That's where all the home care workers got fired. They must come from the next congregation, have a huge travel time, do not know the people and cannot provide tailored care. When I ask the Secretary of State about that, he says, "I don't give a shit." So I'm gonna go back to the question I just asked. What does the Secretary of State actually think about employees saying that care continuity and tailored care all sound beautiful, but that they can no longer provide it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u108	Firstly, Mrs Leijten is happy to give me the quote in which I say 'I don't give a shit'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u109	No, no, no. I get it. Let's mark this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u110	Yes, Mr President, Mrs Leijten says that I said to her questions that I don't give a shit. I'd like to know if that verdict was made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u111	This summer, I think, I have asked eight parliamentary questions about people who do not receive care and municipalities who call the bell because they cannot grant it. The Secretary of State doesn't say literally that he doesn't give a shit, but the translation for ordinary people is that the Secretary of State is subtracting his hands from it: it's up to the municipalities, I'm not going over it. He does not destroy local regulations in which things go wrong, but stands here showing off good policy. If I ask him to intervene in wrong policies, he says, in plain Dutch, chairman: I don't give a shit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u112	I didn't hear the Secretary of State say it. I propose that we make available to the CIP the questions put by Mrs Leijten and the answers given by the Secretary of State and that the Secretary of State now respond to Mrs Leijten's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u113	I appreciate that, Mr President. I would like to be judged on what I said myself and not on Mrs Leijten's interpretation. Indeed, it is true that we have talked about the peripheral condition in the law in which municipalities have the freedom to do something about it, in the confidence that they do so to their citizens. We have city councils to check that out. We have had a wide-ranging debate on this subject. Then it suits us to see if the law is respected. We can appeal to congregations if we feel like things aren't going well. There is also a toolbox in case municipalities do not comply with the law. I talk about this regularly with aldermen, who also send out signals other than those mentioned by Mrs Leijten. We have to keep an eye on each other to see if the performance is going well. We need to do something about things that aren't going well. Besides, we have to put the things that are going well in the spotlight. Let us not give each other the impression that it is all wrong and that the policy freedom that municipalities have is not working. Such equal rights for unequal cases lead to great inequality, because people are not equal. The question of whether people need support and care depends on how they live, how their situation is and whether they can fall back on a network. That's different from one person to another. The art is precisely to take that into account in the future. Let us not pretend that everyone has equal rights. Each person is in a different situation. This concerns, for example, whether or not you have children, how you live and how you are cared for. If we do not take these differences into account, we will not succeed in providing good care in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u114	While I'm listening to this, I wonder how we can get together. Everyone here says there are good and bad examples. How can we achieve together that what is going to go wrong now will go well in the future? That is ultimately in the interests of all of us. How does the Secretary of State see this? He still doesn't appeal to municipalities if they don't follow the law with their policies. I'm not saying this because I want municipalities to take the measure. I want to find out where things are going wrong and why things are going wrong. You can even see that there are differences in the answers to the many questions that Mrs Leijten asked during the summer recess, for example about domestic aid. In one answer, the Secretary of State writes that the personal situation must be looked at, including the amount of money someone has. The other answer doesn't say that. He does write in letters to the Chamber that domestic aid is still part of the Social Support Act. But if municipalities decide not to give this help anymore, the Secretary of State will not act. I agree with him that there are very good examples. We absolutely need to put it in the spotlight. But is the Secretary of State prepared to take real steps where things go wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u115	Yes. In fact, we did. We have written to all aldermen on the basis of, for example, a number of judgments. We have said to them: pay attention and see if the trial is sufficiently careful to prevent legal proceedings. If there are individual cases where I wonder if they are in line with the law, I will find the mayor or the aldermen to check with them whether they comply with the law. In many cases, this has led to adjustments and a discussion in the city council on whether it should be done otherwise. I've been very critical of some municipalities. So we are working on it both at macro level and at micro level. We are very keen to keep an eye on compliance with the law and what happens in a municipality. That's what we do with the VNG. Moreover, I do not hear from the VNG the complaint that I have too little interest in municipalities. The VNG says to me earlier: stay out of it!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u116	Perhaps this has to do with the fact that in the redistribution of parts, municipalities are falling dramatically. At some point they think: we're a little done with that Van Rijn. I just heard the Secretary of State say he's talking to lectures. When MPs ask him questions about municipalities in which things are not going well, the Secretary of State always says: Second Chamber, stay out of it; that is to the city council. Do those letters to those aldermen also go to the municipal councils in a copy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u117	If I have doubts and address municipalities critically, then those letters also go to the municipal councils in a copy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u118	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u119	One more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u120	In preparation for our AO I would like to hear from the Secretary of State in which municipalities a copy has gone to the city council.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u121	That's fine. We will soon have an AO on the progress of long-term care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u122	Secretary of State, how much longer do you think you'll need for your answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u123	It should work in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u124	Then I suggest we get the Secretary of State to finish his story and then see if there are any questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u125	I just indicated why the changes are needed. I have also indicated that we are far from there and that I want to take a realistic look at what is going well and what is not going well. We have just talked about this. I note that there is still a great deal of important work to be done. We have a whole agenda ahead of us. The debate has already covered nursing care a number of times. We want to give a quality impulse to improve the quality of nursing homes. In recent weeks 151 institutions have drawn up a plan to improve the quality of care. Not The Hague paper, but concrete ideas from people in practice. At 670 locations, employees start working to make concrete improvement plans for care for our elderly. I'm just proud of that. There has been talk of all kinds of extra money for the nursing homes. We will have to wait for Prince's Day to see if we are all satisfied. I come to a number of specific questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u126	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u127	You haven't asked a question yet, but I just made a procedural proposal that I didn't hear any criticism of. Anyway, go ahead. I would add that this means that there is little room for discussion in the second term, because we are also having a debate this afternoon on the I-mentality in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u128	That debate too is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u129	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u130	Sure. My question is about nursing care. On the basis of the quality plan that we are now working with each other, we see that investments are being made in better trained staff. That's good, don't get me wrong. We simply need higher-educated staff, because it is also a matter of complex care. At the same time, I see that the lower-educated personnel are being fired massively. That can't be the intention. We will then increase the cost of care with each other. Moreover, we are going to miss that group of caregivers who also have a lot of knowledge and skills. With the nursing team as a backup, those people are also valuable. What will the Secretary of State do about this bottleneck that arises in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u131	The extent to which this occurs in practice depends a little on local conditions. That's the discussion about the staff mix. Of course, on the one hand, there may sometimes be more expertise needed to deal with people with a serious need for care, for example in the case of dementia. We need to understand more about how we can provide good care for those people. That means something for training. On the other hand, we must ensure that there is a good staff mix. It is often not just a question of better educated people, but also of good care. We must have this discussion about the staff mix. I hope to be able to show the Chamber the first results in January this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u132	That will probably be January of next year, because January of this year will be difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u133	I'm not ruling out that's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u134	We're gonna take a look at the training courses. I have made a number of work visits and talked to institutions. The institutions say it's good to invest in the training, but also especially ask for coaching on the job. The nurses must take the caregivers into the whole transition process that we are entering. We must not organize everything outside the institution, but also work within the institution itself. Is that also the Secretary of State's view?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u135	Very much so. Mrs Leijten spoke about the AMvB and the basic tariff. I'm just gonna give you a description of how it went. The collective agreement parties have agreed on a collective agreement with a number of scales. They would be okay if I made an AMvB to anchor that there is good pay for the work that goes with it. I have promised that I will make a proposal for an AMvB based on Article 2.6.6 of the WMO, which stipulates that, in the interest of good value for money, a municipality must take into account applicable collective agreements when setting tariffs. Moreover, I would point out that the collective agreement itself already provides for compliance with the collective agreement as soon as Wmo work is to be done. I've been looking into what that AMvB might mean. I note two things, first of all, that parties think very differently about what should be in that AMvB, so that is already issue one. Secondly, we can now see that we have taken a number of other steps. One: we have the guarantees in the Wmo. Two: we have the Fake Constructions Act, which includes further conditions. Three: we have the code for responsible market behavior. That package leads me to believe that there are sufficient safeguards to establish a sufficient basis. Moreover, I have promised the trade unions to look at the overall development of the labour market, not only in terms of purchasing, but also in terms of the future. Those conversations are going on right now. I've had a meeting with the unions recently. I asked them to continue these talks. I don't have any signals right now that that wouldn't be the case. I hope that all the unions will continue these talks, with a dash under 'all unions'. As far as I'm concerned, we do that together with all the unions. Mrs Voortman and Mr Van Dijk have asked questions about the guidance for responsible staff composition in nursing homes. The plan of approach that we discussed earlier says that a guide responsible personnel composition is being developed. That commitment was confirmed in the progress report I sent to the Chamber for the summer. Under the direction of Zorginstituut Nederland, this is now further developed together with the sector. I have just said that I hope that will be completed in January 2016 and that I will then be able to talk to the Chamber about it. Mrs Voortman asked how to improve the position of workers and how to ensure that there is a perspective on the labour market. We have the safeguards in the regulations. How can we further improve the effectiveness of the household aid allowance? How can we make it simpler? How can we ensure that the code of responsible market behaviour is carried by everyone and applied in practice? What does the impetus we give to the quality of nursing homes and what labour market prospects does that offer? I think that together with the unions, we can come up with an approach that gives an idea of the future of the labour market. My invitation remains to continue to work with the unions. Mrs Faber pointed out that the household aid allowance was too complicated and bureaucratic. It's actually still work in progress. I hope to be able to give the Chamber some figures on the additional progress report on long-term care, which we will be discussing shortly. Around 55% of the HHT is now being used and a lot of municipalities are still in the process of doing so. Furthermore, providers and municipalities have agreed to make a national standard for execution: the allowance with vouchers that municipalities can use free of charge. Mrs Faber mentioned the good example of Enschede. This is indeed a good example of accessible and efficient implementation. I will very much promote that other municipalities follow that. Mrs Faber asked me if I'm going to make another attempt to get the FNV to join us for the code. The FNV was indeed invited to provide input. However, the FNV did not do so for its magical reasons at the time. But I am very much in favour of the FNV working out that code together with parties. Ms Faber asked about the ombud function and the prevention of further Juridification. I think there are a number of ways to prevent further Juridification. Indeed, some municipalities choose to set up an ombud function, others choose to do so through client support, while others opt for a very accessible local complaint and objection handling. With the VNG, I am in agreement with the programme Attention for All to follow up on a firm anchoring of local client accountability, which can be avoided. The Minister of BZK provides support to municipalities through a manual. It sets out how objections and complaints can be dealt with through a single procedure, which can prevent a court from proceeding. Mr Van Dijk asked a question about the overhead, a subject on which we regularly discuss. I have said that I am not in favour of a standard that we set here in the Chamber and which should apply to everyone, but I do acknowledge that we must have as little overhead as possible. We need to be able to distinguish facts and fiction in that discussion. That is why I have commissioned an investigation into the overhead in the long-term care sector in the broadest sense of the word. I expect to receive the results in early 2016, after which I will have discussions with other parties. I hope that Mr Van Dijk and I have approached each other. On the one hand, it is very necessary to question the overhead, as it is often too large, without making a kind of one-size-fits-all on the other hand. That's why I ordered that investigation. Mrs Voortman asked a question about the household aid allowance in relation to the cleaning-cao. In fact, it works the other way around: collective bargaining parties have agreed to ensure that, if the WMO is used, the collective agreement VVT applies. This collective agreement has been made binding. This means that if there is a party that does not comply with that, that party can be called upon by collective bargaining parties. I believe that there are sufficient safeguards in this respect in itself and that this will result in the household aid allowance not being used for cleaning. If that does happen, you will have a discussion with the collective agreement parties about whether someone is complying with the collective agreement that we have already made binding. That does not alter the fact that I will see if that happens in practice. If there are any bottlenecks there, I will appeal to the parties to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u136	There's still a few things. Well, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u137	The discussion is about whether you can employ for household care people who are covered by the cleaning-cao. As far as we are concerned, that is not the case, because it is two different things. So what's the deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u138	That is what I was trying to explain: because the household aid allowance is provided under the WMO and because the collective agreement parties have agreed that the collective agreement must then be respected, this should not occur in practice. We must, of course, keep an eye on whether this happens, but this is mainly a matter for collective bargaining parties who, because of the declaration of binding, can also legally address the parties to the question of compliance with the collective agreement provisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u139	I think that is also a role for the Secretary of State, but I will return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u140	I believe that I have dealt extensively with Mrs Bergkamp's questions on practice and administrative burdens. The same goes for Mr Potters' question as to how we can ensure that we can change the system in relation to the subsequent funding. I had a debate with Mrs Keijzer of the CDA on how to approach each other. In my view, the changes we are making, particularly with regard to domestic aid, but also with regard to community care, require a very close look at how practice is developing. It asks a specific question about the 242 million of community care. I pointed out to her that you can look at that in two ways. Would there be enough contracts, for example, to guarantee care? The health insurance companies have said that they may need to contract more for district health care and that they want to consult on this. I have replied: I do not know, let us look at this in the light of the results achieved. Then ActiZ said: it is good that insurers do so, but, indeed, the budget may be too little on the basis of forecasts and what institutions say. I note that it is also not the case that there is a great deal of need for institutions. The results of the 2014 VVT institutions show that there is a turnover margin of 242 million by chance. There's no such thing as a coincidence, Mr. Chairman. It is therefore a good thing that insurers, if they consider it necessary to guarantee care, contract more. This means that they comply with the duty of care. I propose that we look at the results of this exercise to see whether this presents a budgetary problem or not. Then we can talk to each other about this through the front door and make sure that this also leads to decision-making if necessary. I'm coming to a close. Today, three years after the ESC's opinion on necessary reforms in healthcare, we are in the middle of that operation. She's still in full swing. The People's petition makes it clear that the work is far from finished. We must cherish good examples, and if it does not go well and if it is necessary, we must intervene. As far as I am concerned, I remain with everyone who has a heart for the care in consultation about the future of that concern. Only through cooperation can we ensure that these reforms are brought to a successful conclusion. We can remain proud of the care that is accessible and available to everyone, including those who don't have a thick wallet. This future can only be achieved in cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u141	Mrs. Leijten, you want to ask another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u142	I have another question about the AMvB. You said I couldn't ask a question until the end, so that's why I saved it. Otherwise, I would have done it right away. Is it true that the Secretary of State to Mr Jacques Tichelaar, mediator in the collective agreement dispute at the time for nursing homes, nursing homes and home care, has promised that he would come up with a General Administrative Measure to provide some sort of floor rate for a good collective agreement for people working in household care?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u143	I didn't make a commitment about that floor rate, but about the AMvB. The collective agreement parties said: we have a collective agreement and an AMvB might help to ensure that this collective agreement can be implemented properly in practice. I have provided texts for this in the consultation. It appeared to me that the wishes of the parties about this AMvB were quite different. That's issue one. This means that it is not self-evident that collective bargaining parties who said they wanted an AMvB had the same ideas about what should be in that AMvB. The issue of two is that we now have a Law approach to fake constructions, which in fact already provides a legal guarantee for all those cases where we are not going to comply with that collective agreement. For my part, therefore, there is a willingness to continue to talk about this. If that helps, we should. However, I note that the parties' wish for an AMvB was not in line with what should appear in that AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u144	When I talk to employers' or employees' parties, the unions, I hear everyone agrees on that AMvB. I understand that the VNG does not agree with that, but that is not, in my opinion, a collective bargaining party in the VVT. I note that the Secretary of State promised a year ago that he would come forward with a General Measure of Governance. The collective agreement was concluded in September. He didn't come up with that for a year. Now he is showing off a code on responsible market behaviour, which is not binding on the parties and which does not rely on an signalling function or the proper scale of the collective agreement, even though he could have prevented this code from being closed. I am really sorry that the Secretary of State has let this one point he could have arranged go so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u145	To put it euphemistically, I have a different picture of that. Of course, it is not the case that collective agreements can be negotiated, after which the lower limit or costs for the employer are regulated in an AMvB. Cao parties need to talk to each other about the collective agreement. It must be applied. Let me put it very simply: if an AMvB helps to move the game forward, we have to draw it up. However, that AMvB can never go so far as to regulate what parties should negotiate with each other. The collective agreement is negotiated between the parties. It is difficult for us in the AMvB to arrange for what they agree to be paid by the municipalities. That is why the municipalities have said: be careful with the AMvB. We should not ensure that collective bargaining parties can agree on something and then pay the bill to another party. However, we must try to ensure as much as possible what the collective agreement is about, namely a decent wage for decent work. If an AMvB that does not have this disadvantage helps: do so. However, parties feel differently about this. In addition, I note that a number of elements have been added to ensure that there are guarantees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u146	The Secretary of State just asked how we can make sure that the code is carried by everyone. Surely the Secretary of State could argue for the code to be simply imposed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u147	The characteristic is that the parties also have to agree on the care provided and the price applicable in discussions on purchasing in negotiation. The code does two things. First of all, he says, "Watch out." There is, of course, a margin within which you can do this. It depends very much on how the company works, whether it has a lot of high pay scales, a lot of low pay scales or a mix. So you can't just decide that price. Secondly, there are employers' burdens which I would think would be sensible if we were to pay them centrally. Thirdly, we must agree on how the process should be conducted and can be transparent. The beauty of the code is that it is said: we want to avoid wage dumping and we want to avoid improper alpha aid structures; we want decent working conditions at a decent price. If municipalities and providers agree that they do this in this way and within this band, then I think that, in addition to the guarantees in the law, we also have some nice guarantees as to how it will work in practice. As far as I am concerned, we agree with parties, employers, municipalities and unions on how we will drive the code in practice and how we will follow it or it will be respected.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u148	I note that the Secretary of State is making sure that it is no longer clear to people by letting this be non-binding.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u149	I would like to point out that we now also have the Law approach for phony constructions. This also determines the range within which this takes place in other sectors. Not only do the parties have sufficient guarantees to agree on their market behaviour, but there is also a legal basis on which one can address one another. I think it is good to talk about these guarantees with each other, but also to give parties the space they need, depending on the possibilities of the municipality and the rather large differences between companies in the sector due to different types of wage scales. There is one condition: the collective agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u150	Embroidering on the previous two colleagues: the goal we have is to counter wage dumping, fair pay for honest work, and no alpha or phony constructions. If an AMvB is needed, an AMvB is needed. If you need a code for that, you need a code for that. I agree with the Secretary of State. I also agree with the previous two speakers that we need to get rid of the lack of commitment. Can the Secretary of State indicate how he is going to ensure that this non-committalism disappears, and that fair pay and fair work is arranged in all municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u151	I think we can do this in two or three ways. Firstly, there are general safeguards in the law for the relationship between quality and price. Secondly, we have the code on the bandwidths in which parties have to make agreements with each other. Thirdly, we have the somewhat heavier, legal possibilities of the Law's approach to bogus constructions. I think it is very necessary to keep an eye on whether this whole thing is going to work as a bail and to agree on how we are going to follow whether it is. The municipalities, the providers and the union have also agreed with each other how they will encourage this in practice and how they will see whether they will be respected. I will continue to play an active role in this with the parties, because I also want to know if this works.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u152	I understand that the Secretary of State is currently in consultation with the social partners. I can only imagine that this important issue, fair pay and fair work, is also on the agenda. Can he tell us at what time the polder might be able to get out of this and when we might be inclined to take additional measures? Can he give us a deadline for further information on this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u153	That must be done before the end of the year. I'm actually talking to the unions. I hope all the unions will want to stay in conversation with me. Mr Van Dijk is quite right that this subject, decent pay for decent work and all the agreements we make on it, should be a spearhead in those talks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u154	This brings us to the end of the government's first term. We will proceed immediately with the second term of the Chamber. The speakers have one minute's speaking time. I therefore advise the speakers to begin by reading out their possible motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u155	I think we always have a third of the first-term speaking time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u156	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u157	Mr. Chairman. The ivory tower of the Secretary of State is getting higher and higher. When these signatures were handed over, the Secretary of State received a hearing aid from someone who works in the care. Maybe he should have turned that device on. 400,000 people are in trouble, says a patient organisation that has been following the Secretary of State with a flag all the time when it comes to measures in the care sector. More than 700,000 people signed the petition Save the care. 85% of the population does not agree with the cuts at the moment. Yet the Secretary of State says it's all bullshit. I come to the collective agreement and the General Measure of Management. It was a promise from the Secretary of State, and he breaks it. I think it's a lot that he's breaking it. That's why we need to fix this as a room. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the collective agreement for nursing homes, nursing homes and home care (VVT) agreed that there would be a floor in the hourly wage for people working in household care;]] [[Considering that this requires a General Measure of Governance in the Wmo 2015 but that the Government has still not made it and has submitted it to the States General;]] [[calls on the government, as soon as possible, to develop this General Measure of Management in order to break the long-standing negative spiral of wage cuts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten, Mr Voortman and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34000-XVI-119]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u158	I have one more motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the People's petition Save the care was signed by hundreds of thousands of people within a very short time;]] [[points out that the cabinet cannot ignore the appeal of nearly 1 million people;]] [[Asks the government to take over the following five demands from the People's petition Red care one-on-one:]] [[no cuts in care and support at home;]] [[money for care must be spent on care, we limit profits, bureaucracy and top rewards;]] [[a standard for sufficient staffing in a care establishment so that clients can always receive the care they need;]] [[working in care is a profession. Volunteers and carers are of enormous value, but can never replace professional care staff;]] [[real jobs in health care. You have to be able to live on your own if you're gonna get a job in health care. We do not want to be a forced self-employed person without rights or to be obliged to turn in wages,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34000-XVI-120]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u159	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Secretary of State allows the household aid allowance (HHT) to be used for the purchase of household care from cleaning companies covered by the cleaning-cao;]] [[Whereas the HHT is explicitly intended to maintain employment in care;]] [[believes that household care is more than pure cleaning;]] [[calls on the government to strengthen the conditions for the HHT so that it can only be used for companies and employees covered by the VVT collective agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voortman, Mr Leijten, Mr Otwin van Dijk, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Krol.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34000-XVI-121]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u160	Mr. Chairman. It was a wonderful debate. There is a crystal clear petition with five concrete demands ahead of it. The Secretary of State says he supports all of this. However, if he is asked for concrete actions, he needs a lot of words and does not intervene in concrete terms. He interprets the petition completely differently than the signatories intended it to and seems to live in a very different world than the people in the country. I would have liked to say a lot more about that, but unfortunately time is up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u161	Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mrs Voortman's last words. The Secretary of State turns everything around again and doesn't listen. He doesn't listen to a popular petition of three-quarters of a million people. Nine years ago, the PVV entered the House of Representatives and since then, the PVV has been passionately committed to the care. Let's be clear about that. But then you become a threat to the elite of the left. The SP'ers and PvdA'ers on the board of the FNV exclude the PVV and then you can't join the demonstration. And no one here is gonna stand back from that. That is the sad reality of today. I wish my colleagues a great pleasure on 12 September.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u162	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the answer to the questions put. I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment that he is not only concerned with the training of nurses, but also that caregivers have a place in nursing homes, that they are very badly needed and that coaching on the job can be very valuable to keep the caregivers involved and to keep them in service. I had prepared a motion on this, but I won't file it. I was not very pleased with the Secretary of State's answer to my questions about the ombud function. The Chamber has adopted a motion for a resolution on this matter. In my opinion, the Secretary of State confuses customer support and ombud function. Customer support is a legal right. The Secretary of State has convinced me not to regulate the ombud function in the law. He was going to make an effort to roll this out nationwide. I mentioned Meppel as an example. The ombud function prevents Juridification. What else will the Secretary of State do about it? The household aid allowance is work in progress. The national standard for implementation is very nice, but can the Secretary of State also please look at all the bureaucracy that is starting the ministry? Because there's a bottleneck there too. I'm filing an ultra-short motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to submit a proposal to the Chamber in 2016 to prevent the planned cuts in nursing care in 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34000-XVI-122]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u163	I listened carefully to the last motion. Has the Christian Union also thought about the cover it wants to put on the table for the removal of this austerity? What part of the care does the Christian Union want to drop this austerity?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u164	The motion states that the government is to be instructed to come forward with a proposal for cover. I think it's important that the cabinet picks up this glove. The cabinet says, on the one hand, that we want to invest in nursing care, because we want quality to go up and we have written a great vision for that. On the other hand, the same cabinet says: yes, but in the meantime we are cutting back 250 million. That is not compatible, and that is why I have tabled this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u165	I know Mr Carola Schouten as someone who always wants to support her motions financially and who never makes a motion with an amount that is not covered. Unfortunately, I have to say that the Christian Union is now moving away from that. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u166	I'm not gonna stand back from this. I also disagree with what is being said here. The Christian Union is certainly also financially a solid party. I did not table a motion to delete the discount immediately. I have tabled a motion stating that the cabinet must come forward with proposals to remove the austerity. That's an assignment to the cabinet. I hope that the VVD Group will support this motion. The cabinet will then work on this and we will see what the cabinet will come up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u167	Mr. Chairman. Many specific questions have been asked today, but unfortunately only a limited number of concrete answers have been given. On one of the subjects, I'd like to table a motion. The CDA has already warned about the income effects of all these reforms on the chronically ill, disabled and elderly. To date, this has not led to support for the motions we have tabled on this subject. As you can see now, the newspapers are also increasingly saying that the income effects, especially for middle incomes, are really very large, I submit the next motion. Hopefully we'll get some support for that now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that until now the Cabinet has not provided any insight into the impact of the cuts on care for various income groups;]] [[Whereas the accumulation of savings in care affects groups and/or individuals with significant negative income effects;]] [[Calls on the Government, the effects of all measures taken in the areas of care, home care, municipal Wmo facilities (customised and general provisions), increasing the costs of the Health Insurance Act and abolishing the Wtcg and having the compensation of the own risk calculated by informing the Nibud and the House of Representatives before 1 January 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34000-XVI-123]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u168	Mr. Chairman. The People's petition is an important signal that there are concerns about care and that we must be careful about care. It is therefore important to continue to see and feel what is happening in practice, to solve problems quickly and to stay in conversation with each other, as suggested by the CNV. I have three more questions. The Secretary of State talks with the VNG about simplifying the system and tackling bureaucracy. I would appreciate it if the Secretary of State would continue to inform the Chamber, specifically on this subject, in the periodic reports. The Secretary of State also states that there will be an investigation into the overhead. That seems fine and better than a government standard, because that is more micromanagement. I think it is important to investigate what is now caused by the overhead and what is being done by the healthcare institutions. I come to my last question. It is important to clarify matters for municipalities and citizens. There would be an investigation into the parental contribution in the youth care sector. When is this investigation going to come to the Chamber? Maybe the Secretary of State can already inform us about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u169	Mr. Chairman. We, and I think most Dutch people too, agree that something had to be done about the care. Something had to happen to the screaming bureaucracy the moment you need help. Something had to be done to keep the increase in healthcare costs in check and also affordable for the future. Now we are at a stage where the health care laws have just entered into force. You can see that things are going very well on a number of points and are not yet good enough on a number of points. I also agree with Mrs Keijzer's call, which I also made in my first term, to set the good examples as a standard and to address the bad examples. I've been talking about dealing with the overhead. That was one of my priorities before, and I am pleased with the investigation that the Secretary of State will be doing in that regard. In addition, it is important that this petition is co-organised by the trade unions and that we are also looking at a kind of warm transition in which we are aware of the interests of the people working in the care sector. We have talked about an AMvB and about a standard. I really call on the Secretary of State to inform us at the end of the year about how we can ensure that this work is done properly after consultation with the trade unions and with those who really work with heart and soul and passion. Fair work for a fair wage is the goal, and that must ultimately be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u170	Mrs Leijten, I would like a brief question, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u171	I wonder what the Labour Party thinks about the fact that it is not the social partners who block the General Measure of Management, but the Association of Dutch Municipalities. The UNG does not want to pay a basic rate that will give workers a decent wage. On what basis does Mr Van Dijk base his assumption that there will be an outcome by the end of the year now that the UNG is blocking this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u172	Mrs Leijten asks how I feel about that. I'm not okay with that. The VNG is not a collective bargaining partner in this matter. I agree with her on this. On the other hand, I assume that Mrs Leijten and I agree that the aim is not to have an AMvB thrown into the world. The goal is fair work for fair pay. If this can be achieved by means of an approach through the Fake Constructions Act or a Covenant without any obligation, I very much agree with her. Hence my appeal to the Secretary of State to do so. Then it doesn't have to be in an AMvB, but if it doesn't, I'll be the first to fight with Mrs Leijten to achieve the goal of fair work and fair pay. That is not what the UNG decides, and that is what the social partners ultimately decide, and if we fail to do so, we do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u173	We heard from the Secretary of State that he didn't come out because the social partners disagreed. In any case, we are now in a position to know that it is not the social partners who disagree, but the UNG, which is not a collective agreement partner. So the Secretary of State can make the AMvB already. Then why does he have three months left to the Labour Party in order not to arrange for fair work to be rewarded fairly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u174	Because it's the purpose that matters to me. I want fair work and fair pay. If this can be achieved in a different way than with an AMvB, I don't hang on to an AMvB. I am concerned about that goal, that all people in the care should be able to count on their job being properly rewarded and that at last that race to the bottom will end, that wage dump.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u175	Mr Potters will refrain from speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u176	Madam President. That's it. That's it. That is also what the Dutch who signed the petition have indicated. Now it's important to limit the damage. The policy freedom of municipalities creates many undesirable differences. The code responsible market behavior at home is a small beginning, but this is not enough. That is why I wholeheartedly endorse the motions tabled by Mrs Leijten and Mrs Voortman. However, that code is all we have at the moment, but unfortunately it is not binding. Mr Van Dijk has also pointed this out, and I thank him for that. That is why I propose the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there should be a lower limit to the quality of social support and the level of remuneration;]] [[Whereas the Code of Responsible Market Behaviour at Home Support marks a lower limit;]] [[whereas this code can be endorsed by municipalities and healthcare providers but is not binding;]] [[calls on the Government to make the Code of Responsible Market Behaviour Home Support binding for municipalities and healthcare providers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34000 XVI-124]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u177	Finally, Madam President. Maybe the Secretary of State would like to give us a look at his schedule? Where is he on Saturday, September 12th, around noon?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u178	This brings to an end the second term on the part of the Chamber. The Secretary of State says he can answer directly, even if he doesn't have the last motion yet. By the way, given the clock, I allow very limited interruptions. I give an opportunity to clarify a question, but there is no room for debate anymore. We have been able to do this with each other in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u179	Mr. Chairman. I will briefly address a number of specific questions. In reply to Mrs Leijten's story, whether everything is going well or not, whether everything is going well or not, I say: I have just tried to argue in detail that it is important at this stage of change to keep an eye on what is going well and what is not going well. And indeed, as Mrs Keijzer pointed out, I put the good examples in the spotlight and address parties where things are not going well. That is a responsibility for all parties. I can see that it is taken where it is needed. In reply to Mrs Voortman's remark, I take the petition very seriously. I indicated that I could have signed the petition on a number of points, so to speak. At the same time, we have a responsibility to ensure that good care can also be given in the future. This requires choices, including with regard to financial resources. But I take the petition very seriously and have tried to indicate what is going on at all points of the petition and is being put in place to ensure that the concerns are taken seriously. But once again, we have a responsibility to each other that people will not be chased over the blade in the financial sense with enormous care costs. It's already hard for some people to turn every dime. That can't get any worse. That requires a number of choices, which I am not happy about either, but which are necessary for the future. That is what I am saying in reply to Mrs Agema. She and I have a different picture, but I do want to listen to the petition and how it can be taken into account in policy. Mrs. Dik-Faber asked about the ombud function. Municipalities are working on this. I have been in consultation with the VNG to promote, simply put, and to look very seriously at whether this ombud function could play an important role. The Ministry of the Interior is working on national support for municipalities wishing to set up an ombud function. The Transition Committee on Social Domain reports in its upcoming report on the relationship between citizen and government in the new era. Together with the cabinet response, the Chamber receives a letter on this subject. I can imagine that this will give us a little more time to discuss this issue, but it will ensure that it is brought to the attention of the municipalities. Mrs Bergkamp asked when the research can send youth's own contribution to the Chamber. We'll soon have an AO on progress youth. I have good hope that I can send the investigation before then. She also asked if I would like to continue to inform the Chamber of the progress made in reducing administrative burdens. Yes, it is, because that is an important spearhead, which I think we should keep our finger on each other permanently in the regular progress reports and when necessary outside. I also agree with her statement that we should look not only at the administrative burden caused by the government but also, above all, at the administrative burden caused by the institutions themselves. This is in line with the remarks made by Mr Van Dijk on this point. Then I come to the motions, starting with the motion in part No. 119 on the AMvB. I'm just trying to be very specific. Cao parties agree a collective agreement with the corresponding wage scales. Let me put it simply: in the law we have arranged that if you do work in accordance with the Wmo, you have to respect the collective agreement. When you put a basic standard in an AMvB, you take a specific wage scale from the collective agreement and then say: that is the basic rate. That would not be appropriate, partly in view of the fact that we have some restraint to exercise. Cao parties themselves must have the freedom to reach agreements. If an AMvB can further ensure that the collective agreement is respected for work in accordance with the WMO, I am very willing to consider what guarantees there are or may still be. But it really goes too far to take a wage scale, to declare it a basic rate and then, as it were, to exclude the collective bargaining parties. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u180	I do not know what motion the Secretary of State has in front of him, but my motion does not state that a pay scale should be included.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u181	So if you make an AMvB with a basic rate, you pick an amount out of the collective agreement and you say that's the basic rate. I also note that the code sets out the range within which these negotiations could take place. With Mr Van Dijk I say: let us wait and see whether that is a good guarantee. If that is not the case, I agree with Mr Van Dijk that we should then look again at whether this guarantee is being implemented. The starting point is a decent wage for decent work. In her motion in part No. 120 asks Mrs Leijten to carry out the petition in full. I have indicated at what points I am working on the petition and on what points I would like to make further agreements. I cannot support the motion on all points because it says "no cuts on home care and support." We have discussed it extensively with each other that it is sometimes necessary to make choices. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. In the motion in part No. 121 the government is invited to tighten up the household aid allowance (HHT) which can be used to purchase household care from cleaning companies. Can I ask Mrs Voortman to hold the motion until the debate on long-term care progress? For my part, I can see whether the conditions mentioned here, including the binding of a collective agreement, already provide sufficient guarantees or whether there is still a need for tightening up. I don't think so. I understand the Chamber's request and the concern about it. So I would ask Mrs Voortman to give me the opportunity to take a very specific look at the conditions for the HHT and see how I respond to this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u182	I think this is about next Wednesday's debate. I like that. I would like to stress that I am concerned that the Secretary of State is now, in my view, approving situations which I do not think are in conformity with the conditions for the HHT.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u183	That is exactly why I want to have time to find out very specifically.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u184	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u185	At the request of Mrs Voortman, I propose her motion (34000-XVI, No. 121). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u186	The motion in part No. 122 is a special motion, in which we are already being asked to submit a proposal to the Chamber on the proposed cuts in nursing care. Apart from the question of whether this motion is covered, I would point out that every year the government makes a proposal on next year's budget. In 2016 we will also make a proposal on the 2017 budget. That seems to me to be a good time to talk to each other about how we all look at the future targets at that time. The motion isn't covered now. I understand Mrs Dik-Faber's appeal to think about this. We will undoubtedly do so, but I would advise her to wait for the government's proposals for the 2017 budget. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u187	The Secretary of State is dissuading the motion. He says we'll be looking at the plans for the 2017 budget next year, but the Secretary of State is currently asking the institutions to make plans for the coming years. These plans must now be made, but they must be made with a sword above the head of 250 million. Surely it is impossible for the Secretary of State to ask the institutions to do so? It is now necessary to clarify whether this budget cut is being deleted. As far as we're concerned, that's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u188	I understand your signal. I also note that in this Chamber, and I too, it is said that we should look together at the quality impulse, but also at how we could perhaps achieve a more streamlined joint procurement, how we can combat waste, how we can achieve less overhead. This may be far more important than the objective that is still ahead of us. I see two things. On Prinsjesdag we talk about the quality impulse for the nursing homes. I have said before, when presenting the plan: if it proves that extra money is needed, then we will have to discuss it with each other on Prince's Day. I suggest we wait for Prince's Day. This also means that the plan on the quality of nursing homes is being developed. It also means that it is early enough to talk to each other about whether a remaining job like that fits well with the quality impulse plan that we are now making. On the motion in part No. Mrs Keijzer's 123 perhaps we can also agree on a procedure. Some time ago, during the debate with the Chamber on the reform of long-term care, Mrs Voortman tabled a motion asking for research into the income effects for chronically ill. In the motion-Keijzer in part No. 123 is in other words asked about the same thing. If I promise that the Chamber will soon receive a letter from me in which I will answer the question as to how and in what time we can conduct that investigation, then perhaps that could give Mrs Keijzer cause for holding the motion. In any case, I refer to Mrs Voortman's motion on this point, which we are now implementing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u189	I tabled the same motion in February 2014. At that time, there was no majority in the Chamber. I understand that Mrs Voortman's motion was accepted. We're also filing so many motions that we're losing track at some point. I also hear Mr Van Dijk say yes. I think it's a good idea to go along with the Secretary of State's proposal. In the end, I am concerned that we should be clear about the effects of all reforms, especially on middle incomes. At the moment, I'm holding the motion in part No. 123 on! 123 on! 123 on! 123 on! 123 on! 123 on! 123 on! 123 on! 123 on! 123 on! 123 on! 123 on! 123 I'll see what exactly is in that other motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u190	I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he can indicate when the letter he has just promised will be sent to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u191	I will give that date for the debate on long-term care, which we will have next week. Then I can provide a well-founded analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u192	Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u193	I've got the Krol motion in part number. 124 not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u194	If it's all right, you've received that motion. In any case, the answers are coming up now, at least the suggestion to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u195	The motion in part No. 124 is about the code responsible market behaviour. I wonder, apart from the content, whether it would not be appropriate for us to exercise some restraint and confidence in it. Parties have said to each other that they consider it important that the procurement process takes place in a careful manner, within certain ranges. The parties have initiated a code of responsible market behaviour. I have just said that the current legislation has general safeguards. We have the code responsible market behavior and we have the Law approach bogus constructions. I very much agree with Mr Van Dijk, who says that this is a decent wage for decent work. That's the demand. The parties themselves have come up with initiatives to deal with this in their own way. Then it would be appropriate for us to await the proposals of those parties. This is not without obligation. Mr Van Dijk also asked to see if the result had been achieved. If it does not succeed, then we need to consider further measures. For that reason, I would like the motion in part No. 124 currently dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-03-tweedekamer-4.u196	The votes on the motions tabled will be held next Tuesday. The Secretary of State has promised that in the AO on long-term care, which will be held next week, he will give a number of answers.
