ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u1	I welcome the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport, as well as the people in the public gallery and those who follow this debate in a different way. I would also, of course, like to welcome the author of this citizens' initiative, Mrs Smit. It will explain the citizens' initiative that has been presented and will do so from the chair, where normal Members of Parliament stand. I would ask the guardian of the Chamber to escort Mrs. Smit to the chair. Mrs Smit, before I give you the floor, let me explain the procedure for this particular occasion. It is the agreement that you will not be interrupted during your contribution. No questions or comments may therefore be put by the Members of Parliament present. You may explain your initiative here but do not take the opportunity to say other things. You have five minutes for this. I wish you every success. And: enjoy it too!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr President, Minister, honourable Members of the House of Representatives and the public. I would like to thank the President, the Minister and the Members of the House for the opportunity, unfortunately only after two years, to briefly introduce my citizens' initiative in the five-minute period allowed to me. I would also like to thank TROS Radar, Professor Barendrecht, family, friends and all fellow fates for their constant help and support in recent times. Two years ago I started my citizens' initiative Written information obligation medical treatment agreement. The citizens' initiative led to 57,000 statements of support within 48 hours. Also from the medical and legal world there is a lot of support. In the meantime, I was overwhelmed by reactions from thousands of patients with poignant stories. They said never to have given permission for an operation if they had been better informed: if I had known it all in advance, I would never have had it done. This is about surgery with implants but also about many standard operations without implants that turn people's lives upside down every day. I am thinking of interventions in nerve-rich areas, all kinds of plastic surgery and, for example, gallbladder operations which are too often carried out; they are estimated to produce some 150 disabled persons per year alone. Handing over a package leaflet if someone has to undergo a simple knee surgery is also essential. Sometimes the sense of smell can be permanently affected. The patients I spoke to, they thought they were protected by the law. They assumed that the doctor will tell you everything that's needed so that the patient can make informed decisions. So everything, about risks, complications and other effective treatment methods. Unfortunately, this is not always the case in practice. They often did not know that these patients could ask for written information in addition to the doctor's oral story. The threshold for asking for it appears to be high. It feels to the patient as a vote of no confidence towards those who are going to make him better and with whom he wants to build a relationship of trust. Ma'am: Written information in the form of a package leaflet or a reference to an Internet site could much better enable the patient to make an informed choice. It is then up to the patient himself to know about it or not. Risky treatments will then be avoided by patients, which will also indirectly contribute to innovation in medical care and reduction of healthcare costs. In the case of smart and innovative development of the written obligation to provide information, there may be a very limited additional administrative burden on healthcare providers in relation to the current situation, but this is not related to the benefits of having written information available during the interviews between the physician and the patient. Afterwards, legal matters will also be much clearer, which will greatly improve the position of patients as well as those of treatment professionals. There will be no more frustrating wells-nothing games around the informed consent. We know that it often occurs that the doctor thinks he has previously informed the patient about everything, while this does not correspond at all to the patient's experience. It is strange that a patient often has to sign an operation, while it is completely unclear on the basis of which information the doctor has provided his decision has taken place. It is also strange that written information on almost all conceivable products and services is required by law. Some hospitals already show that it is possible to provide information in a relatively simple way and also in writing. Unfortunately, their example is far from being followed by all hospitals. Many good measures have been taken or are in preparation in recent years. These should lead to much more transparency in the quality of health care and, more specifically, patient safety. It is precisely in the year of transparency declared by Minister Schippers that a cleverly elaborated written information requirement fits the individual patient. Citizens therefore ask; of course they want to know what is happening in and on their bodies and to be able to think about it. They want to know if there are other treatment options beyond what the doctor offers them. And before that, Mr President, citizens are counting on the House of Representatives today. They can make a difference for the patient to meet his much-needed information needs. The current Wgbo fails to do so and the Wkkgz and kiesbeter.nl do not offer the written information required by us, although this is often wrongly suggested. I thank you all for your time and wish all Members of Parliament and the Minister a great deal of wisdom and a fruitful debate. Thank you. Mr President, Minister, honourable Members of the House of Representatives and the public. I would like to thank the President, the Minister and the Members of the House for the opportunity, unfortunately only after two years, to briefly introduce my citizens' initiative in the five-minute period allowed to me. I would also like to thank TROS Radar, Professor Barendrecht, family, friends and all fellow fates for their constant help and support in recent times. Two years ago I started my citizens' initiative Written information obligation medical treatment agreement. The citizens' initiative led to 57,000 statements of support within 48 hours. Also from the medical and legal world there is a lot of support. In the meantime, I was overwhelmed by reactions from thousands of patients with poignant stories. They said never to have given permission for an operation if they had been better informed: if I had known it all in advance, I would never have had it done. This is about surgery with implants but also about many standard operations without implants that turn people's lives upside down every day. I am thinking of interventions in nerve-rich areas, all kinds of plastic surgery and, for example, gallbladder operations which are too often carried out; they are estimated to produce some 150 disabled persons per year alone. Handing over a package leaflet if someone has to undergo a simple knee surgery is also essential. Sometimes the sense of smell can be permanently affected. The patients I spoke to, they thought they were protected by the law. They assumed that the doctor will tell you everything that's needed so that the patient can make informed decisions. So everything, about risks, complications and other effective treatment methods. Unfortunately, this is not always the case in practice. They often did not know that these patients could ask for written information in addition to the doctor's oral story. The threshold for asking for it appears to be high. It feels to the patient as a vote of no confidence towards those who are going to make him better and with whom he wants to build a relationship of trust. Written information in the form of a package leaflet or a reference to an Internet site could much better enable the patient to make an informed choice. It is then up to the patient himself to know about it or not. Risky treatments will then be avoided by patients, which will also indirectly contribute to innovation in medical care and reduction of healthcare costs. In the case of smart and innovative development of the written obligation to provide information, there may be a very limited additional administrative burden on healthcare providers in relation to the current situation, but this is not related to the benefits of having written information available during the interviews between the physician and the patient. Afterwards, legal matters will also be much clearer, which will greatly improve the position of patients as well as those of treatment professionals. There will be no more frustrating wells-nothing games around the informed consent. We know that it often occurs that the doctor thinks he has previously informed the patient about everything, while this does not correspond at all to the patient's experience. It is strange that a patient often has to sign an operation, while it is completely unclear on the basis of which information the doctor has provided his decision has taken place. It is also strange that written information on almost all conceivable products and services is required by law. Some hospitals already show that it is possible to provide information in a relatively simple way and also in writing. Unfortunately, their example is far from being followed by all hospitals. Many good measures have been taken or are in preparation in recent years. These should lead to much more transparency in the quality of health care and, more specifically, patient safety. It is precisely in the year of transparency declared by Minister Schippers that a cleverly elaborated written information requirement fits the individual patient. Citizens therefore ask; of course they want to know what is happening in and on their bodies and to be able to think about it. They want to know if there are other treatment options beyond what the doctor offers them. And before that, Mr President, citizens are counting on the House of Representatives today. They can make a difference for the patient to meet his much-needed information needs. The current Wgbo fails to do so and the Wkkgz and kiesbeter.nl do not offer the written information required by us, although this is often wrongly suggested. I thank you all for your time and wish all Members of Parliament and the Minister a great deal of wisdom and a fruitful debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u3	It's a little different than usual. The public gallery should not normally be allowed to express approval or disapproval. Mrs. Smit, I hope you enjoyed standing here. I would ask you to take your seat in the Chair so that you can follow the debate. It is not a very common procedure and those who have never done this before, I say that we are now having a debate as we normally do. One by one, the members will come to the conference room. They have four minutes' speaking time per group. Then the Minister will answer the questions and respond to the citizens' initiative. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Wijngaarden of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. The VVD is very grateful to Mrs Smit and the other authors of the citizens' initiative. The importance of providing information to patients is reflected not only in the initiative but also in the wide range of civil and disciplinary case-law on this subject. A well-informed patient is a stronger and often healthier patient thanks to greater compliance. But as a patient, you want individual customization in the first place. You want the information tailored to your illness, your treatment path and your information needs. More information is therefore not always better information. The risk of a written obligation to provide information is that it will very likely lead to standard information in practice. This will involve many pages of information, pages of text that often do not make the situation much clearer. We should not expect miracles from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u5	I found it a little strange to hear in the media yesterday that today this citizens' initiative would not reach a majority because VVD and PvdA believe that it does not need to be regulated by law that someone in writing receives information that has been given to him orally. I do not think it is appropriate for the proposers of the citizens' initiative to say that this has already become clear through the media. Isn't the doctor already legally obliged to inform the patient in writing if he asks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u6	I'm happy to respond on both counts. In general, I would like to say that we take this initiative very seriously. That is what we indicated yesterday. I have also prepared a motion with the PvdA colleague in which we will also explain what we do want. In general, we want to improve the patient's information position, but we do not believe that this should be done through more legislation and even more bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u7	And the second question, is it not already legally mandatory?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u8	The WGBO and the Wkkgz, which are still pending before the First Chamber, are already a very important guarantee for the patient's information position. The Wkkgz reinforces that position again. That law clarifies and extends the right to information with choice information. The healthcare provider shall be required by that legislation to provide information on the care offered by him, including rates, quality, patient experience and scientifically proven efficacy of long-term care. That is exactly why I say that we do not need any additional legislation now. It is precisely the Wkkgz that responds to the wishes of these initiators to a very important extent. It just doesn't go so far as to oblige aid workers in all cases to always provide written information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u9	I believe that the current law and the new law are doing exactly that. It says that the doctor must inform the patient about the condition, treatment, alternatives and risks. That's all in there. What else does that say? That this should be done in writing if necessary. Doctors are therefore already legally obliged to inform the patient in writing upon request. So I don't think there's any need for a legislative change at all. I think we should simply say: if you do have to inform the patient when it asks, make sure that that information is available. Let us now fly in this way and not say that the doors are closed because this leads to bureaucracy; in this case, that is a very easy argument to abuse. Let us just look at the law, which states that the information must be given in writing if it so wishes. So the doctor's already obligated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u10	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u11	Then let us simply introduce it by default. What's the problem with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u12	I would not have hoped that I could say so quickly that I agree with Mrs Leijten, because it is exactly as she says: on request the patient can already ask for that written information, and we would like to keep it that way. We simply do not want to go so far as to take the place of the patient and say that he does not have to make that request anymore and that the doctor must always do so automatically. So I think just what's already there is enough. That is actually what Mrs Leijten is saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mrs Leijten took another very important point, namely how things are going in practice. This week I spoke to a nurse who has been in the profession for 30 years and who claims to know that people only remember 40% of a conversation with a doctor during a very emotional conversation, sometimes about the treatment someone has to undergo. In Mrs Leijten's appeal, I hear not only the question of whether the current law meets the requirements, but also the question of how we can make it easier in practice. Wouldn't it be nice if we made sure that that written information was there for the 200 to 250 most complex operations?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u14	I would like to stop the fiction that we can make everything better in healthcare with new legislation all the time. I believe that new legislation is no longer the solution at the moment. We've already looked at the legislation. That is where the adaptation of the Wkkgz came from. It's in the First Chamber now. As far as I am concerned, that is the issue of legislation. The ball is now really at the care field itself. I fully agree with Mrs Bruins Slot that there are important opportunities for improvement, which should be realised by healthcare providers themselves. That is exactly what I would like to call for with my motion, which I have tabled with my colleague Mr PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u15	The ball isn't just by the care field. We have decided on a legal standard in the House of Representatives. In fact, we conclude in this conversation together that the legal standard we have set can be better implemented. So there is also an assignment with us in the Lower House to have a stimulating effect, to be a catalyst. We could call on each other, with the minister, with the field, with the Quality Institute, to take important steps, just in practice. It is the year of transparency; Mrs Smit said it so beautifully. Let's make that call with each other. Now let's be open in that too. I know that Mr Van Wijngaarden has prepared a motion, but perhaps he is also prepared to see if we can reach a broader agreement today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u16	Of course, I'm always willing to look into that. I also hope that Mrs Bruins Slot is prepared to take a favourable look at the motion I would like to table together with my PvdA colleague. That is, I think, the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u17	Following what Mrs Bruins Slot asked, I wonder the following. We have good legislation laying down it all, namely the WGBO and the Wkkgz, but we see that it does not work in practice. I do not hear enough from the VVD about how we can drive things forward. There is no doubt that a problem has been identified for which we must come up with solutions. Since we have the legislation and we can apply it in practice, the question is how the VVD sees it happening. Because now it's happening far too little.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u18	In any case, I welcome the broad recognition of the fact that the problem is not in legislation, and neither is the solution. The question was how do I see it? I think that is what we would like to call for in the motion for a resolution that it is important to pursue the field of care now. That ball is now primarily in the care field itself. It's in the care field to pick it up. You can also see that it takes important steps in that regard. For example, the KNMG letter we received contains good examples such as Thuisarts.nl, nvog.nl and mijnheup prosthesis.nl. Just yesterday, I spoke to cardiologists from Catherina Hospital. They are themselves working on all kinds of new, experimental forms to improve patient information. Patients share experiences with each other, including via Twitter. That's an unexpected success. The implementation of the legislation is, of course, not here, but with the caregivers themselves. With the universal recognition of the urgency and importance of this citizens' initiative, I see a very important signal sent out to the caregivers, because they are, of course, watching this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u19	This citizens' initiative was born precisely out of powerlessness over the role of the caregivers. The WGBO's been here a long time. We have known for a long time that the duty of care means good information, as well as ensuring that the patient can think along with it. That is precisely where the problem lies. For example, what does the VVD think of the fact that a lot of patients don't even know that they can ask for written information? I said "very much," but I think about all patients don't know this. What would the VVD think if we at least made it mandatory for patients to be informed that they could ask for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u20	I myself feel much more for active information to patients. I also think we're still on the move right now. We've come a long way. It's only been a few decades since doctors didn't speak about the patient in Latin. You can see that we are still in an emancipation movement, in which the patient's position is increasingly strengthened. However, we are not there yet. I fully agree with Mrs Dijkstra. I think we should actively point out to the patient his options. I think that is the solution and not all kinds of legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u21	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u22	Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, providing standard information means that information is also provided to you as a patient that does not apply at all to your personal situation. This leads to potential confusion in the patient and an overload of information. In addition, it creates more bureaucracy in the care sector, something that the VVD and the healthcare sector themselves want to get rid of, and if I am not mistaken, most of the Chamber of Commerce want to get rid of. Does it now help to build up new legislation on existing and pending legislation? As I said, I don't think so. I think that the Wkkgz is very much in line with the wishes of the initiators. This also applies to the important work that we are doing, Mrs Leijten, who knows all about the safety and information about implants. I hope the Minister will be able to come back to that. In our view, it should be primarily about involving the patient in his or her treatment and involving the doctor in the patient's preferences. My question to the Minister is therefore whether, and if so how, it can stimulate shared decision making. As I have said, I take this initiative very seriously. That is why, in the second term, I and my PvdA colleague have a motion, as has already been said, which we would like to challenge healthcare professionals to further strengthen the patient's information position through more than just an oral conversation. The ball is now in the care field itself and not in the legislator's office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u23	There are a few more questions for you, Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u24	In fact, I thought Mrs Leijten had said enough about the motion, but since Mr Van Wijngaard himself is bringing it up again, I have nothing else to say about it. Announcement of a motion in the first term is only actually done if there is mistrust of the Minister that she is not going to take any action. My question to Mr Van Wijngaarden is therefore why he has already announced a motion three times without waiting for the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u25	I think Mrs Bruins Slot is right in general, but as you pointed out, Mr President, this is a special situation. In view of the presence of the initiators, I have thought it appropriate to indicate how we intend to accommodate them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u26	The President was right to say that the citizens' initiative is a special procedure. One of the key features of the citizens' initiative is that we are always looking at how broad we can reach agreement in the Chamber, because we have a shared general interest. It is a particularly good time to have people here who have worked hard and express their views here. I would therefore ask Mr van Wijgaarden once again whether he is prepared to consider during this debate, including with the Minister's answers, whether we can reach a more comprehensive practical solution to the very recognizable problem that Mrs Smit has raised here and not to stick to the fact that he has a motion which already has a majority. Does he have that setup?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u27	In general, I have it, of course. I have already indicated to you that I have already answered that question and that I am prepared to have this debate. Otherwise, I wouldn't be standing here. However, we have been talking about this for two years. Meanwhile, together with my colleague from the PvdA, I have looked into it and looked at our position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u28	Of course, the VVD and the Labour Party have a majority, so when they prepare a motion, they close the debate. That's sad. Why has it been necessary for the VVD to settle this with one party and to inform the media before the debate, so that we do not really have an opening today to find a majority for another proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u29	To be honest, I find that a little faint. I think Mrs Leijten is very familiar with the phenomenon of 'preparation' and she also knows that for the debate in the media you indicate how you enter the debate. To be honest, I do not want to dwell too much on this. We shouldn't make it bigger than it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u30	I am sorry that I am taking part in a closed debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u31	I regret that, because that is by no means the intention. It was only the intention to point out to the initiators how seriously we take their initiative. I would now like to await the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u32	Before we get there, there are still some MPs who have something to say. As the second speaker, I give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u33	Mr. Chairman. We have already heard from Mrs Smit: within 48 hours she received 57,000 statements of support for her citizens' initiative. The call is very simple. Just give patients on paper what condition they have, what treatments are available and what risks they may have. It is very simple and entirely in line with the legal obligation to provide information that already exists. My compliments on the initiative, although the cause is sad because Mrs Smit is marked for life by medical treatment and she is not the only one. If you're ill, talking to a doctor is an exciting event. Apart from the fact that you're physically not okay, the nerves and the stress are killing you. You're gonna hear what's going on with you. It's about your health. The words of the doctor, no matter how pleasing and understanding he may be, often don't linger. People are left with a lot of questions afterwards. What has been said? What exactly do I have? What exactly has been proposed and what are the risks and possible alternatives? I ask the Minister today to take over the citizens' initiative by removing the word "desired" from the law. That is all that needs to be done. The information obligation is already in place. Providing good information about treatment is already a duty. It's a small step to just put that in writing and give it to me. There is already an enormous amount of information available. It also happens very often that doctors give something. What if there's no information yet? My proposal is that the medical directive should then be translated into patient information. The medical directive defines the disease and the treatment required, the risks involved and the medical considerations. Give that information to the patient so he can take part in the decision. It's a little trouble, but it's a big gesture. The suggestion that this customization is in the way or leads to bureaucracy, I think, is added. After all, a doctor always looks at the patient and then proposes customisation. The information's already been arranged. What about bureaucracy? If you're asking for it now, you should get the information, too, so she should just be available. I do have a very different question for the Minister. What analysis is it making on the basis of this citizens' initiative?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u34	Mrs Leijten points out that the argument that it leads to bureaucracy has been dragged with its hair. However, has she considered how much work it is to return all the conversations of doctors with patients about a post-treatment treatment in writing? Has she taken note of what the care and the doctors themselves have said about this? If so, how does it relate to its statement that it was dragged by its hair?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u35	It's already mandatory, isn't it? When someone says after talking to the doctor that he wants to take it with him in writing, the doctor is obliged to do so. If all the patients asked for this, that bureaucracy would be there. I think it's not that bad with the bureaucracy, because the question is quite simple: people want to be able to bring home something in which they can read back what they have, what the treatment options are and what the risks and alternatives are. With that information you can then start thinking about your situation and better prepared to enter into the next conversation with the doctor. After all, you never have one conversation with a doctor, especially if you start a treatment. In the second conversation, you'll be better able to have the discussion. The alternative is that people start looking on the Internet, they may encounter wrong information and the doctor may be suspicious. This is perhaps a bigger problem than arranging for available information to be translated into patient information by a doctor not in the vacuum but under a directive. It's possible. If we give that information, I think we're really a step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u36	You say if all patients asked for that written information, that bureaucracy would be there. At the same time, you want to delete the word "desired." That is contradictory, because at the same time you say 'there is no bureaucracy' and 'if all patients asked for it, that bureaucracy would be there'. That is, of course, exactly the situation you are creating when you delete the word 'desired'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u37	I would prefer the professional associations, together with the patient associations and the quality institute, to ensure that every patient who leaves the office receives on paper what his condition is and what his options are. That's already a legal requirement if you ask for it. If we do that standard and ask the quality institute to turn the medical guidelines into understandable patient information, we can greatly reduce bureaucracy. That's why I'm saying it's being dragged in. It's an opportunity argument, because it has to be by law already. We simply need to ensure that it is done in such a way that information is accessible to everyone and that it leads to as little bureaucracy as possible. I think the benefits are far greater than the disadvantages. Mr. Chairman. What analysis does the Minister make of the present request? Doesn't she find the reason sad, namely that people who have suffered damage from medical treatment do not feel heard and can't get anywhere? The inspection is deaf, slow and does not concern individual cases. The NZa is not there for the patient and only listens to the health insurers and the minister himself. But the patient's got the damage, he's on his own. And you know, care is not a product you can trade with a receipt. One man has only one body, and if that is in the wrinkles of another, and if that man or woman is in the cold, then we must take the side of those who are in the cold and help to solve those problems. What doesn't happen to people: crashing after damage caused by treatment; not finding support; not finding a listening ear; a broken body; often losing work and losing social contacts and a legal battle with an institution that is much more powerful and richer than yourself. This will have to be solved. That is why we remain in favour of a medical injury fund. We hope that this year we will be able to submit an initiative proposal to the Chamber for this. I have one more question for the Minister. She promised us so many times that there would be an implant registry. We were supposed to be informed by the end of last year. It's so sad that we still don't have any information. What's taking you so long?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u38	Mr. Chairman. Today I am replacing my colleague Reinette Klever, who is normally here. Unfortunately, she could not be present because of circumstances. However, she felt that this citizens' initiative was so important that she was diligently looking for a colleague to speak out her words here. I'd be happy to. First of all, I would like to thank the authors of the citizens' initiative on behalf of the PVV Group. We would like to express our appreciation for their efforts. We would also like to thank all the people who signed this citizens' initiative. There were 57,000 signatures within 48 hours. That's a clear signal. The initiative therefore has our full attention. The patient's position in our healthcare system is vulnerable. In our view, this position is becoming increasingly vulnerable because of the increasing power of health insurers. Soon you won't even be able to choose your own doctor. We therefore welcome all initiatives that strengthen the patient's position. Information about surgery is crucial in order to be able to make the right balance. That information is basically there, but it does not reach all patients by far or does not come across sufficiently. Just last week, NIVEL reported that mouthiness in the office is not for every patient. The study also showed that patients are in a dependency relationship and often forget to ask for the necessary information. They don't dare interrupt the doctor or they think there's not enough time. It is remarkable that patients are speaking less nowadays than before. That is why the initiative to require written information is a welcome addition. In today's digital age, it can't really be that difficult to achieve this. We find the comparison with the package leaflet for medicines unhappy. That's too much of a legal document. For a lot of people, it's barely readable. We shouldn't want to go that way. It must be understandable information and explanations. Of course, this should not be at the expense of the doctor's conversation with his patient. It should be an addition, which is provided not at the request of the patient, but by the doctor standard and always. The Minister believes that this is an excessive burden. We think she should prove that first. Then we know what we're talking about. The Minister also says that much has already been done in the WGBO and the Wkkgz. We agree with her. However, these laws are based on a request from the patient and not on the duty of the doctor. The PVV agrees with the initiators that this should become an obligation. The Minister indicated that he would embrace the initiative in terms of implants. Can the Minister clarify to what extent patients will be informed of complications with implants and how often they occur? And by when will the written information requirement for implants be a fact? Doctors have indicated that they want to do customization and not hand over a standard folder. Customization can however be explained in a conversation. After all, the leaflet does not replace the conversation, but is an addition to it. Again, in the digital age, the compilation of a customized folder with good cutting and sticking and supplemented with personal medical data is a not too large piece of music. In short, the PVV supports this citizens' initiative. We would like to hear from the Minister how she can implement this. Unfortunately, I won't be there. That's not out of disrespect for this minister, but because I have other appointments. The wise words of the Minister will undoubtedly come to us through other channels.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u39	Thank you for your contribution and thank you for taking the trouble to be here in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u40	Mr. Chairman. Others have already said it, but we are discussing a citizens' initiative today, and that is something special. To put this initiative on the political agenda, a large number of signatures were collected in just a few days. I would like to thank the applicant and her advisors very much for this. The signal's clear. Patients need clear information about what awaits them, what treatment options there are and what the potential risks and complications are. I think we all recognize this from our own experience, or that we know people in our immediate vicinity who, once they were outside the treatment room or the medical specialist's office, simply didn't know what exactly had been discussed and actually needed to walk straight back to ask further questions. I've been there myself before, but if you want to walk back, the next patient's next. In short, in order to be able to make a proper assessment, important information is needed. The patient is entitled to that, too. This citizens' initiative aims to legally require the physician to give such information to the patient in writing by default. The applicant makes the comparison with a box of paracetamol. There is also always a package leaflet that you can read at home. That's absolutely true. So I understand the objective very well, as I have already indicated. I do, however, have questions to the Minister about the implementation and possible consequences. To what extent can written information, in the eyes of the Minister, indeed be tailor-made? The Minister himself talked about too much administrative burden, but what do they consist of? Can the Minister explain exactly what they mean? What possible legal consequences does the Minister see for both doctors and patients if all possible risks need to be identified? How can an additional obligation be prevented at the expense of time for a personal conversation? I would like to receive a response from the Minister to these questions. I've already had a bit of a hint in my interruption that I'm wondering if you still need to settle this legally. It is already well arranged. The right to information is already enshrined in the WGBO and the Wkkgz Bill (Law on Quality, Complaints and Disputes Care). Mrs Smit rightly states that you receive this information only on request on paper. Mrs Smit did not know this possibility and I do not think about anyone knows it. I therefore think it is right for patients to be actively reminded of this right. For example, put on the appointment card: "You can always ask for written information." That's just a tiny little thing. In addition, there are the necessary best practices. How can it be promoted that patients are aware of their right to written information? Wouldn't it be good if standard information was offered, without the patient asking, about a number of common treatments? Does the Minister have any examples of hospitals where this is already well arranged? So what can we do with that? Finally. An important reason for this citizens' initiative was the lack of information on implants. The Minister informed the applicants that she felt it was important for written information to be made available to the patient. There must be an information system so that if anything turns out to be wrong with an implant, patients can be traced and treated, according to the Minister in June last year. It is also committed to this at European level. It all sounds so good, but recent research by RIVM shows that the current registration of many hospitals and private clinics is not suitable for use in an implant registry. Fast traceability from implant to patient is therefore not yet entirely possible. I have a few more questions about that. What about the Minister's commitment to the Chamber and to the proposers of the citizens' initiative? Is the Minister gonna speed this up? How long is this expected to last?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u41	Mr. Chairman. It is a celebration for democracy that today we welcome Mrs Smit with her citizens' initiative, with more than 57,000 signatures. It's about care. Health is our most precious asset. Being sick or having a care question is very intense and it makes people suddenly depend on another person, a doctor or a health care professional. That is why there is a great responsibility on the shoulders of doctors and caregivers. It's not just a matter of treating patients properly. Especially the step ahead is important: discussing their care question with the patients. What are the symptoms, what are the treatment options, but also: what are the risks associated with this? Legally it has already been established that there is an obligation to provide information, but in practice this is not always good. Unfortunately, Mrs Smit has had to experience this in person. I therefore congratulate her once again on the fact that she has started this citizens' initiative on a patient's written obligation to inform a doctor. This lady turned what happened to her into a way to prevent it from happening to others. That really deserves a big compliment. The aim of the initiative strongly supports the Labour Party: to better inform patients in an active way, alongside a conversation. The patient can take the information home and reread it and discuss it at his own time and in his own way, exactly as one wants. This allows the patient to make a conscious choice. However, according to the Labour Party, the plea of always informing in writing is too limited. Supporting patients can be more extensive as far as we are concerned. The Labour Party sees good examples of this in the country. For example, there is the website heart.volgerers.org, on which cardiologists tweet and e-mail patients and on which people are in contact and doctors are watching or providing the right information. There are doctors who make YouTube movies for their patients, such as Dr. Oei from the Flevo Hospital. There are even surgeries to follow on Twitter, with comics. These are all good developments. "Customised information" should be the norm. The Labour Party wants doctors themselves, by profession, to draw up a plan for how to better inform patients. That may be written, as Mrs Smit says, but it can also be done with a YouTube movie, for low-lettered people, or via Twitter or Facebook. We don't care if it happens. Just as the VVD has suggested, we would ask the Minister to sit down with the doctors and ask them to make a plan for how they intend to do it, with a timetable, so that everyone knows how the practice for these patients will improve. I believe that this is an answer to Mrs Smit's questions and an answer for the at least 57 000 people who have taken the trouble to support her proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u42	Mr. Chairman. The healthy man has 1,000 wishes and someone who is sick is only one: get better. When you get sick, you feel lost, powerless and often out of control. Better start with concrete and clear information on the operation and possible alternatives. This requires time, attention and space. The patient can then make a good choice in consultation with the medical specialist. A medical failure, with major consequences, can then be avoided as much as possible. The CDA congratulates Mrs Smit on her citizens' initiative, but would also like to thank her for that. Mrs Smit is trying to give a positive follow-up to her bad experiences in care. This requires courage, strength and perseverance. It can count on good support from Mr Barendrecht and the Radar programme of the TROS. The CDA really hopes that this citizens' initiative will work as a flywheel. The initiators believe that more protection should be given to patients. Written information should allow the patient the space and opportunity to reflect and discuss the situation and reconsider choices. With the written information in hand, the patient can also be more easily informed. But the written information should never be an excuse not to have a conversation in the treatment room. The eye-in-eye contact with the doctor is vital. But patients often don't know that they can ask for written information. There is also a threshold to do so. You don't want to scare your doctor against you. You're feeling stressed. This problem, which is also highlighted in the citizens' initiative, is very recognizable. With D66 and the SP I ask the Minister: can patients not be informed of the fact that they are allowed to request written information? In addition, the CDA believes that written information can contribute to proper preparation before the start of the treatment. Does the Minister agree with the CDA that this is more than just a package leaflet for implants? There are so many other risky treatments and operations. Legislation takes a long time. Legislation also does not always give the certainty that reality changes. For general care there is homearts.nl. When we had the conversation with the initiators, I believe that Mr Barendrecht said it so concretely, they indicated: if we can get the information for the 200 to 250 most complex operations, if we can create a website with a package leaflet in the form of a text and movies, to which patients are referred... Very clearly I also belong to that: that is not chooseBetter; that is more than what dialBetter is at the moment. That information must be trustworthy, too. My question to the Minister is: can we not just get it done in practice; can we not just do it with each other? Then the question is what this information should look like. 250,000 people in the Netherlands cannot read and write. 1.3 million Dutch between the ages of 15 and 65 have great difficulty reading and writing. They do not understand a package leaflet. Also vulnerable elderly people understand health information but difficult. How does the Minister look at working not only with written information but also with instructional films? Mrs Bouwmeester said the same thing. It's also very recognizable. Someone who fixes his band or gets a new watch is gonna google. That's where you'll find information on film. I'm coming to a closure. Getting better when you're sick starts with better understanding what's going on with you and what's going to happen in care. Let us take a step together today to reach out to people in it. Mrs Smit has taken a very important step in this direction with her citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u43	That is the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber. I propose that we suspend ten minutes before the Minister answers the questions and responds to the citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u44	Mr. Chairman. I agree with those who thank the initiators for this citizens' initiative. It's always easy to get something like that in front of you. You're gonna read it and you're gonna think, "A portion of reading food." However, if you consider how much energy there is in getting this done and what it is to not only have it in your head, but also to start up and implement it, then I must make a big compliment to those who start and bring it to this end. I must say that what is in the lyrics is something I would almost say: I could have written it myself. The goals that are set are, of course, goals that we all share enormously, not least me. I couldn't agree more. I also fully agree with the position attributed to the patient in these documents. Because nothing is more important than being yourself when you're a patient. It's about your body, so you need to know what's happening. What is so difficult about the medical sector is the fact that the information between doctor and patient is not equal. The doctor has the information and the patient should believe him. I'll compare it to taking your car to the garage. I have no idea what needs to be done, and I'm assuming it's necessary and it has to be done. But that's just about my car. I'll buy a new one if it fails. But with your own body, it's a whole different story. Then I'm gonna have to rely on what the doctor says, too. Especially in the past, but still today, many people are not taking the step to ask whether it is the only option, whether there are alternatives or what are the pros and cons. We need to do better with each other. As Mrs Smit rightly pointed out, this citizens' initiative is not yesterday's. This has been going on for a while. This citizens' initiative has achieved far more than many other citizens' initiatives, even though there have not been so many. If you look at what has already happened after that citizens' initiative in relation to the provision of information to the patient, not only here in the Chamber, but also in the field, that is something that the initiators can really be proud of. Let's first look at the more long stretches, the legal routes. The adaptation of the Quality, Complaints and Disputes Care Act (Wkkgz) is currently in the Upper House. The Wkkgz is partly about things where things have already gone wrong. What do you do if something's already gone wrong? Then how do you make sure the patient is stronger than now? That has everything to do with file-forming. For this, the Wkkgz also makes many improvements. The Law on the Medical Treatment Agreement (WGBO) is still being amended. That's what's gonna happen in this room. The WGBO is an incredibly beautiful law, a very important emancipation law. He gives the patient a very important right, namely the right to good information. However, it is also a law that could use a modernisation slap. We still have to talk about this adjustment. I think that the WGBO should go to shared decision as far as the right to information is concerned, and I think it is a terrible term, a joint decision on the treatment. The law therefore needs to be modernised: from a right to information to more joint decision-making. Then there's the practice. There is a huge boom in initiatives in practice. I've been given the examples. That's an endless list of what's going on. Ripe and green mixed up. There are things that seem very successful and things that you think: a little bit more can be done. Thuiszorg.nl has already been mentioned, but the NPCF, the KNMG and the OMS are also very active. And all I'm talking about is the clubs and the industry associations. Doctors also take many different initiatives in their hospitals, and they should. We have said for a reason that 2015 is the year of transparency. We're serious about the patient's information position. It needs to be much stronger. There is already a lot, but let us also make it findable and understandable. It's shredded everywhere now, so it really needs to be bundled and understandable, so it really does help you. I had some conversations today before I went to this debate. Today I spoke to the LUMC. I said, "I'm about to have the citizens' initiative." My partner said that they are very busy with this subject in the LUMC. They have a hundred treatments and conditions on which they, as a hospital, with an academic component for top care, have their focus. For these 100 treatments, all of them should be on the website as to the risks and alternatives. That goes for all hundred. It's not quite what it should be yet, but they're already working on it for their treatments. In February, the Chamber will receive a letter on the intermediate position of waste. I discussed this intermediate position and during that conversation I was informed that the "time-out consultation" will be started in collaboration with Achmea. That's a consultation between diagnosis and treatment. Especially if that treatment is far-reaching, it is useful if you have thought about the diagnosis at home and the option that the doctor has recommended to you. Before you start the treatment, you'll have another talk with the doctor first. You can say: I have thought about it again, but this and that is what I want to ask and those things have not been discussed in the first consultation. Achmea has said that she thinks this is an extremely important consultation and that she is working on it. The pilot will start in April. Achmea intends to apply this widely in 2016. This is an extremely important step that can be taken. Especially when the news is a bit bad or very bad, a lot of people shoot into stress. Then they don't know exactly what was said in such a conversation. You see more and more people record the conversation, especially with such important things and especially when emotions come along. We live in a society in which we have all kinds of technology at our disposal. Suppose you're having a conversation with a doctor and you're recording the conversation. Then you get a time-out consultation. You can prepare a decision for an important operation much more thoroughly than you can right now. If I understand correctly, that is the purpose of this citizens' initiative. The purpose is not the written information. The goal is that the patient knows more and is more involved in which treatment options there are and what benefits and disadvantages there are.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u45	I think it is a nice introduction from the Minister, with good examples of what is happening in practice. But if you have a thousand white pebbles lying on a beach, you don't see them. You put that thousand white pebbles on a pile, you'll see them. The Minister mentions a few very fine examples, but the question is how do we ensure that the patient knows how to find these pebbles. How do we make sure they know where to find that information?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u46	I'm still in my introduction. Of course, I will come to this, because that is what has been asked for in the Chamber. My introduction is about the realization that we don't live in a time when the doctor determines what your treatment is and doesn't take you enough because he doesn't think you understand it after all, or for other, own considerations. This has happened many times, but we want it to be different. There is a lot of effort to make that happen differently, because you can have a thousand pebbles on a beach. We have them, and you want them wiped to a lot. That is exactly why I said that 2015 is the year of transparency. Because if you have a lot of pebbles, but they're all over the Internet, you're not gonna find them. You don't know which is good and which is bad. You don't know what reliable information is or what isn't. The information that's reliable may be written in a language you don't understand because you don't have medical education. That's why I'm coming up with a roadmap that builds up in 2015. It's not about asking for more. That's what we're doing for the stragglers. But we have to throw the pebbles on the beach into a pile so we can see those pebbles. This is a priority for the first six months. Everything that roams the internet with solid and reliable information, comes on one site: kiesBeter.nl. This is a priority for the first six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u47	It is a good step forward that the Minister has the ambition to do so in the next six months and to ensure that the thousand white pebbles on the beach are placed on a pile. But how do we ensure that the patient also knows that he has the right to ask for that information and that he is entitled to written information? How are we going to make this known to every Dutchman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u48	That is a question from you and Mrs Dijkstra; we are doing everything together now, which I find a bit annoying, because the whole structure of my story is now gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u49	Maybe I can help you with that. I'm looking at Mrs. Bruins Slot. The Minister states that she is going to answer this question because you also asked that question in your first term. Do you think it's okay for the Minister to go into that in her story?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u50	Yes, I can wait for those answers, but this point follows so logically on from the Minister's answer that I have already asked the question. But, again, I'm fine with waiting for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u51	A lot of questions have been asked. The Minister would like to answer that and if new questions are asked immediately, this is always complicated. Mrs. Leijten, do you have a whole new question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u52	Well, it goes on at this point, namely gathering all the information. So I'd like to ask that question anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u53	Mrs Bruins Slot, who started on this point, says: I am waiting for the Minister to make sense in her story on that point. It seems wise to me...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u54	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u55	The Chamber just had an hour, and then the Minister wasn't allowed to say anything. I think it is so neat that we are now giving the Minister a chance to give her story off. You can ask all your questions. Mrs Bruins Slot, who has started on this subject, says that it is fine to do so, so that the Minister will return to it in the course of her speech. I now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u56	I had stuck to the point that more and more people either bring someone along or record the call over the phone. That is of course very important because in such a conversation full of emotion you often do not get what is the essence of what the doctor tells you. I also agree with Mrs Bouwmeester's example of a new technology. It may be good to listen to the message afterwards but sometimes the story can be understood better via an animation or a video than with the perhaps somewhat technical standard information given on a form. I think that is more of a free interpretation of what is meant by the citizens' initiative, namely that the patient should know that he is entitled to that information and that that information can also be given in a different way than in a treatment consultation or consultation in which the diagnostics are discussed and then a treatment is decided upon. I agree with the authors of the citizens' initiative. I do think that written information is only one aspect of it. You have people who are direct but also people who have to "diesel" first, so they have to process information first and then ask their questions. So you have to respond with a mix of measures. That is why I am very pleased that the time-out consultation will be tried from April onwards. What would it look like if you had another conversation after a diagnosis to allow things to settle down? In addition, I would like to check how it works with those animations, which Mrs Bouwmeester talked about. That's a new technology. That works differently than in writing because it is then shown. That's also something that belongs to this time of year. This way you can see how to strengthen the patient's position in order to arrive at a better informed decision. That's exactly what we want. People don't need treatment. Sometimes the side effects of a treatment are such that when you have been informed in advance, you come to the conclusion: to my body no polonaise, I like to choose something else. So so far my response to the way of informing about the citizens' initiative that aims at a well-informed patient so that they can make up for their choices. In my introduction, I would also like to pay attention to the implant register. This is also the result of the citizens' initiative. The debate is taking place in Europe. That does not make you very happy and we will not be able to say in the foreseeable future that we have a European implant register. That is precisely why we started it ourselves. We can wait for Europe, but we have no influence on that. In my first response to the citizens' initiative, I indicated that I started doing so. Construction of the implant register was completed at the end of last year. Data collection can be started so that implants inserted can be traced back to the patients they received. In parallel, I have a legislative amendment in preparation for a legal basis for an implant register and the information associated with it. At the end of January we have an administrative consultation with all parties and if everyone agrees, the implant register goes live. We'll start with cardiology, orthopedics and plastic surgery. That is all on the basis of this administrative consultation and the administrative arrangements, because in the end there must be a legal basis. The handling of legislative proposals takes a long time and meets all kinds of dangers along the way. So we're just gonna get started. In the legislative process we ask for advice from the Council of State, we take legislative tests and send the proposal to the Council of Ministers, but we start with the implant register. In the legislative processes, for example the Wkkgz that lies with the Upper House, it is not only arranged that there should be a proper file formation which makes the patient's position much better, but also an easily accessible and customer-oriented complaint and dispute treatment, among other things by the Dutch Health Service. That is very important, because many patients feel alone. The reason for this citizens' initiative is, of course, a very sad one. I say this in response to Mrs Leijten's comments. It is sad that a lot of patients do not feel sufficiently supported in the process if that has happened. We have to stop it from happening first, but once it's done, we want to strengthen the clients and patients as well. We also established that in the Wkkgz.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u57	I come back to all possible initiatives to describe treatments or conditions by hospitals or medical associations and to describe the risk of risks and possible alternatives. The Minister referred to the LUMC that will put this information on the website for 100 conditions. In May 2013, the Minister responded to this citizens' initiative. That was almost two years ago. In this response, it rejects the proposal for written information, as it is afraid of an information overload. That was almost two years ago. Does it still believe that there is a risk of an information surplus now that it sees the movements in the field and sees that work is being done to better inform patients? Or is she less afraid of that given the experience two years later?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u58	No, I do object to a statutory written disclosure obligation. I also see leaflets in practice, in which the information is actually incorrect and out of date. Very often the doctor waits for something else to happen and prints all the information at once. That is exactly why we chose at the implant register that if you get a card stating which brand and which registration number you have of a particular implant, the information runs through a website. You can keep that website up to date and the reference to that website can be arranged in such a way that the information in it is also up to date. I strongly support that up to date keeping the information on the website about a treatment and the description, for example that you are getting a new hip. The Quality Institute is working hard on this. That's a huge monk's work. There is a lot of discussion about how to do that. Of course, we are all very much pushing for this to be kept at maximum speed. So I think that in general terms you should be able to look up information about a treatment via standard information on a website, but to get your personal information in writing again, I find insufficient customization. I think you can do that much better with new technologies in other ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u59	It's starting to buzz me a little bit now. The very fact that general information is available would, according to the reasoning in the letter we received from the Minister, lead to a surplus of information and to too little customization. Now she says that you can look up general information on a website but that she finds specific information in writing too much work. I was just looking for an opening because, in the intervening period, Mrs Smit also said that it was a while ago that the citizens' initiative was adopted and was busy and could not deal with the citizens' initiative earlier, when everything happened. Because everything has happened and there is not so much complaining about administrative burdens at all, but there is actually a lot of energy being put into the question of how we can best inform the patient, I want to know from the Minister if she will come back to that. Because I don't think there's such a thing as a surplus of information when you get the information. I think there's such a thing as an information surplus when you say, "Go Google." I would have hoped that we would come together a little more in an analysis, but apparently getting a piece of paper is a problem and the message is: go look on the Internet. I believe that this can lead to incorrect information but also to a surplus of information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u60	It's always so difficult when your words are summarized in a way you don't recognize. With Mrs Leijten that is becoming a bit standard. I don't say to people, "Go Google." I say to people that we are working with the Quality Institute to have information available for each treatment in which, even in decision-making through a decision-making tree by the Quality Institute, the advantages and disadvantages of a decision are taken. That's not googling, it's pointing tightly to one website. As people ask, we have legally regulated that they are entitled to written information. The people who ask for that information need that information in writing. We've already legally sealed that off. Mrs Dijkstra asked me if you could not make patients aware of this much more. I think that is a path that is needed. I think we should just do that and think about how we can make people aware of their rights and where they can get information. So I can promise that I will also include in the transparency letter that comes to the Chamber a passage that states how you make patients aware of the information they are entitled to and where they can get that information. But I think you're all asking for customization and that customization here is the crucial word.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u61	I had actually run into another question about the microphone, but I thank the Minister for this commitment. I'm still curious about how it's going to work, but I think it's simple. What I also think is that it is perhaps a good thing that we define what we now consider to be written information. I look forward to the Minister's response to this. It could also be that in writing information is that you indicate on which websites you can get the right information, because it is of course a whole journey before you have mapped everything through the Healthcare Institute. I actually had a question for the Minister about the implant register. The Minister informed the proposers of the citizens' initiative that she was working hard on this. I told you, it all sounds very nice. However, we understand from research by RIVM that the current registration is not at all suitable for use in an implant registry, because we have many hospitals and private clinics. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u62	That's exactly why it took longer. When I promised to the Chamber that there would be an implant register, I still had the naive illusion that it was a matter of linking, and that you would have a register with it. That turned out to be very difficult because of the way it is arranged in hospitals and private clinics. That is precisely why we are only now starting with three, by the way important, fields of expertise if we agree after January. So it's solved for those three disciplines, but in it it's exactly the complexity that has kept it waiting for some time. I have already mentioned in a letter to the Chamber why it took so long.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u63	The Minister tells us that we have often exchanged that the mills in Europe are grinding very slowly. That's why she thought we should just start in the Netherlands. How is this relationship with Europe now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u64	It hasn't really got much further than where we were in the last talks. There is simply a great deal of disagreement between Member States and between different views on what should happen when. It is quickly agreed that something must be done, but the effects are very much awaited.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u65	The minister just said I was twisting her words. I didn't try to do that. I was actually looking for agreement, which I think we can find. In the introduction, the Minister said that there are a lot of initiatives to inform patients as best they can and that she would like to pool them to make them available via one website, so that there is clear information. That led me to the question whether she would then step away from the danger that she saw one and a half years ago, almost two years ago, of an information overload. That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u66	You can give a patient, for example from the LUMC with those 100 treatments: look at our website, there is this and this information about your treatment, and you also have that from the Quality Institute. You can add the service to print it out when someone says he doesn't have the resources. Then I guess we're pretty close. But that's already in the law. If you have to change the law, you end up in pathways that last endlessly. I wanted to find the practical way. I search through the Quality Institute, through the hospitals and through websites. To a patient who does not have access to the website, I can, in response to the request of a number of Members of Parliament, say: know that you can ask for a printout. Well, then we're practically a long way from each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u67	This was practically what I think everyone was looking for. We have actually already regulated it legally, a lot of information is available and how can we facilitate this patient-friendly and administrative burden-friendly? I am very glad that the Minister joins us and will take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u68	I think we should keep a close eye on customization. I myself have experience with written information that I can make very little chocolate. With the suggestion I've heard that you can explain it in a simpler way, we should definitely get to work. With new technology, we can start that. Mr Van Wijngaarden made another point. He said: you can agree on a lot of things here, find something and arrange it, but in the end it has to be done in the office. I think this is true. You can see that there are very big differences between them. Some doctors take a lot of time to get through something with the patient. Other doctors take a lot less time to do that. I think it is important to ask the field to ensure that the joint decision becomes more standard than it is an exception, so that the standard is dealt with in this way. I would like to underline Mr Van Wijngaarden's appeal to do so. I was wrong about what happened next. Mrs Leijten asked me to take over as "desired" from the law. That's a law change. Let us now find each other in the common area that we have, stay away from legislative changes and, in practice, continue to implement them step by step. We also need to make the situation clear. At present that is always missing in our discussions, because as far as I am concerned it is not fast enough on kiesbeter.nl, the site of the Quality Institute. For the next six months, this site will be heavily filled, if it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u69	In the Minister's introduction, I heard that she still has two legislative paths. In addition to the law before the implant register, she is going to modify the WGBO to make it more at the core of the WGBO together. Wouldn't that be a good time to look for a good formulation and take it with you at the same time, so that it becomes clear that you don't have to ask for written information but that it is part of joint decision-making? Is that an opening? So you don't say, like the initiator, that then you have to have a law that regulates this. It's about looking for an opening when we review the WGBO, just in this area. Then it should be considered how the written information can be included in such a way that the patient does not have to ask for it, but the information which is more automatically available.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u70	I agree with Mrs Leijten that the debate should take place when amending that law, because the WGBO is, of course, about the provision of information to the patient. The wording we are looking for is going from "getting information" to "decide together." If I come up with the bill, the Chamber can assess whether it meets its wishes in this respect. Mr. Chairman. I come to the medical guidelines that are being translated into patient information. That trajectory has been deployed and is running. The Quality Institute plays an important role in this, because medical guidelines are very inaccessible to patients. They often contain a terminology that, if you haven't studied for it or you've studied it, you can't understand. To understand what is happening, it is really very important that you can understand the medical guidelines. I therefore agree with the emphasis on this. What's my reaction to the trigger? I kind of gave it to you. Of course, it's a very sad occasion. I always find it extremely strong of people when they can turn a sad cause into something positive, positive for what comes next and for people who come afterwards. I think that the things that have been set in motion in legislative processes, but also through initiatives in the field, especially when it really went wrong, should improve the patient's position. That is the reason, which for me is also a real personal motivation for the bill that lies in the Upper Chamber, the Quality Act, complaints and disputes care. I sincerely hope that, despite the fact that this requires a little more of the healthcare offer, the First Chamber will have to do things that it doesn't have to do right now, and that it will be a very serious point in the First Chamber. Proper information on implants must indeed be provided. That is the path we have taken, I say to Mr Beertema. There are phases in that trajectory. The first phase is to make the register active, so that at least we can find people who have implants on one of the three sites. Then we must support it with a law and continue to develop it, until we are finally satisfied and have a finished product. The legal consequences were asked. It's undesirable to have a doctor make a call report. You don't have to. You can take a call with a phone these days. That's already happening, and I think this is good. I don't think you should think about the legal consequences. The doctor really needs to think: I'm a doctor and I'm going to tell a patient about his situation right now. It is of course his personal diagnosis and the patient is always able to ask for a second opinion if he doesn't trust it. I think this is very important and that it will not be at the expense of the personal conversation. That is exactly the bottleneck we have found here. In my first reaction, I noticed them myself. We must be careful not to impose additional administrative burdens on the way in which we deal with this. After all, the care sector is already going crazy with the administrative burden. So we have to deal with this without burdening individual doctors with extra work. We can do that by getting patients to record the conversation. If they have had the conversation, they can find general information on a website. If necessary, the information can be printed out and given directly. Furthermore, they can have a time-out consultation. There will be more energy in that, but you will get better informed patients and therefore better health care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u71	The technique isn't entirely cooperative. Yes, it's all been digitized recently, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u72	It's so hard!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u73	It is very important that there is time and space to have that conversation in the treatment room. We have spoken several times in the Chamber about the dbc viewing and listening money, as we call it popularly. What is the situation with regard to its introduction? We should give more time to the patient and the doctor to have the conversation with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u74	That dbc has been entered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u75	The only nasty thing is that the product has hardly been purchased in the past period. What's that got to do with?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u76	I've been thinking about that, too. We can decide all kinds of things here, but ultimately it has to be done in the field. That's why I'm glad Achmea is working on the time-out conversation, even if it's called something else. Achmea is, after all, a major health insurance company that gets experience with that. The expectations are that this will achieve enormous results, otherwise such an insurer would not. It is actually a different form of the same product. I am very pleased that this is going to start. I agree with Mrs Bruins Slot that it should eventually be bought in and imported into the field.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u77	The Minister has already said a few times that you can record the conversation you're having with the doctor. What's the status of such a recording? According to the law, you have a right to be informed in writing if you ask for it. However, this is a different kind of information. Can a doctor refuse to record the call? Can he say he doesn't like it and that as far as he's concerned it would rather not happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u78	I don't know. I know from around me that it happens a lot. With difficult conversations, people don't know how such a conversation works in advance. Sometimes they feel a bit unpleasant because the conversation can go both ways. In that case, they record it to check it out at home. You listen to other things than the first time you have a conversation like that. You can have a second conversation. What the legal status of such a recording is, I don't know. I look at the officials, but I notice that they don't know either. In any case, I know that it is being introduced more and more in practice. Moreover, I do not see it as a link in a legal process. It's a tool to decide what you're going to do and what decision you're going to make about your own treatment. That's how I'd like to see it, not as something a doctor's gonna refuse. I would find that a very difficult way of doing things in our care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u79	I agree, and that is why I am asking for it. I think it is very important that we look closely at its purpose and at a way of ensuring that both sides, both the doctor and the patient, deal with it in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u80	I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u81	What I just heard about that phone call, I think is the patient's ultimate emancipation. I think it's the future that someone who goes to his doctor for a difficult conversation or for questions will record that conversation in order to be able to listen back at home. But we're not there yet. Everyone rightly says that we need to ensure that there is as little bureaucracy as possible in healthcare, because maximum care can be provided and there is time for discussions. There is often a great deal of emphasis on the prevention of burden pressures, see Actal and all kinds of other clubs, and therefore I wonder if it is an option to find out what a good conversation is. Such a conversation can prevent all sorts of procedures and complaints afterwards. Can we perhaps improve the practice with a better conversation without bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u82	That thought is at the root of the time-out conversation, because with a good conversation you can avoid a lot of trouble for the patient, miscommunication and a lot of misery afterwards. It is often also a matter of what someone has picked up from what was meant. For example, if someone who is employed by a department in the LUMC translates on a website for people what happens in that department, you reach a lot of patients with one action. By the way, you can see very large differences between departments: some give very short and other very comprehensive information. So the information just needs to be better. If each doctor individually has to deliver that information and keep it up-to-date, that's quite a hassle. So we can improve the patient's information in a practical way. I believe that this is the common thread that everyone, not only in this house but also in the citizens' initiative, is striving for. One of these non-bureaucratic possibilities is such a time-out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u83	I very much agree with the Minister. Cardiologists have established the website Hart Volgers. These cardiologists will measure what it results in when people can find information online, chat with doctors and tweet and chat with each other. In that chat, however, a doctor is watching to prevent ghost stories from being told and to ensure that one stays a little bit with reality. So they want to measure what it yields for the patient and whether unnecessary visits occur. They also believe that this example will be followed by more specialist groups. Does the Minister consider this to be a development that should be encouraged?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u84	You see runners in all kinds of parts of care. This is a really good example of that. ParkinsonNet is one of those forerunners. Through that website you can get information in all kinds of ways. You then choose the way that is best for you as a patient at that time. I fully agree with you: it is beautiful. I haven't seen the animations myself, but I'm sure you inspired me to look at them. These are examples that you have to pass on to others in administrative consultation. An order can pass it on internally to other specialists, and that is also what needs to be done, because in the end it has to be done there. We can make laws here until we make our own paths, dbc's that can be opened and ask in administrative consultation why we do not do so, but ultimately it has to be done in the field. We now have a dbc in which the second line, the medical specialist, can watch with the GP. I really hope this is taking off, but if it doesn't, we can only talk to each other about this. Because it has to be done in the field, Mr Van Wijngaarden and Mrs Bouwmeester asked me whether I could not go round the table with a plan and a timetable. I would very much like to address the sector to the importance of transparency, because that is what this is all about. In the year of transparency, we ask everyone for something. This is also covered by transparency, and that is why I should ask the sector what we can expect from them when. I would like to link it to that route, but in the end it will have to be done in the office. Whatever plans and laws we make here, it's gonna be a lot by now. So we have to look together to see whether we are not keeping people away from what really needs to be done. However, I can promise this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u85	This is an important commitment from the Minister, for which I would like to thank him. When I heard that promise, suddenly a wild idea popped into my head. I hear the Minister say that there are good examples. We know these examples: ParkinsonNet, heart.followers.org, and Mrs Bruins Slot mentioned homearts.nl. I mentioned another individual doctor, Dr. Oei from the Flevo Hospital, who e-mails everyone by default. Then I thought, wouldn't it be a nice idea if the minister with the field put together a leading group of people who are leading this movement? Those people can see why they can do it, what their good examples are, what their strength is, and whether they should share it with the sector. This creates a flywheel, so that in every professional group there is one person who says: I am going to do the same. In each profession, information is tailor-made, adapted to the profession and to the patients. Is the Minister willing to think about that idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u86	This is very similar to our year of transparency. We've set things in motion for that, and there are, of course, things in there that overlap. The pilot with the timeout consultation starts with specific treatments. We're gonna see what we can win with that. With the year of transparency, I am now putting enormous pressure on the sector to gather all the information from the forerunners of today, so that the white spots become known very quickly. It's the same thing, but it's a different route. We have to be careful that we don't put all the plans on top of each other in such a way that we're really going crazy. The biggest complaint I'm getting out of care at the moment is that the administrative burden is going to be seen as the biggest problem. I take Mrs Bruins Slot's suggestion in the year of transparency and I see how I can braid it a bit. But I'm not gonna do anything extra. I do that in the same plan. I get an answer here to the question asked earlier whether a doctor may refuse. Of course, you can sneak on your phone, but the doctor can refuse. If the doctor refuses, it is of course all the more reason for the patient to ask for a written report. I'll come back to informing the patient and to that plan. I'll take this with me. It is the third point that I will take a moment to work out. It seems to me that we need to look closely at the legal situation. This is the first thing people have tried to look up quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u87	It also leads to a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u88	Yeah, I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u89	I heard the minister call for civil disobedience. I can imagine that in this case, because you want certain certainty about what's going on in the office. What the Minister is saying now actually shows exactly the dilemma. You're dependent on the doctor, but on the other hand, you also want good information. Since the Minister is now the first to say this, my request is for her to make a good legal analysis on this point when she sends the changes in the WGBO to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u90	I just promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u91	Recording that conversation is really nothing but memorizing the conversation. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u92	You can, of course, testify to it through the recording, but you can say: do me a written report. As I have just said in response to the answer I was given, I will not only take the shared decision making with me when adjusting the WGBO. That is why we need to adapt the WGBO, because I think we need to modernise it into joint decisions, but I will take this point into account. It is precisely with this new technology that you should realize that this saves a lot of administrative burdens. To do so, you need to know exactly what the status of such a recording is and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u93	Mrs Dijkstra has already answered her question, I understand. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u94	In the context of the 200 to 250 most complex operations, I really draw attention to the transparency plan. That's what the Chamber was gonna get this month, right after Christmas, but she doesn't have it yet, because I sent it back. It has to be clarified, because I know that Mrs Dijkstra is going to ask otherwise what the timetable is and what the objectives are. If I don't read that in a plan, I want to make it a little more concrete, because that saves an intermediate step. In conclusion. I come to the Chamber in the year of transparency with a transparency plan. First of all, I will address the questions about the flywheel, shared decision making and the question of Mr Van Wijngaarden and Mrs Bouwmeester as to what the field is going to do. Secondly, I will put in that plan how we can point patients to their right, which is already in the law. Thirdly, when changing the WGBO, I will also look at the legal status of the recording and the right to record the conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u95	This has put an end to the Prime Minister's first-term reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u96	We have a few technical problems today, but they are not so big that we cannot go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u97	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her response. Many of us, including the Minister, have rightly pointed out the many forerunners in the care sector. Unfortunately, there are also those who are left behind, and they must get to work. We think it is important to highlight our commitment to the field and the initiators. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that the Citizens' Initiative "Christmas duty medical treatment agreement" is an important signal to further strengthen the patient's information position where possible;]] [[Considering that the current WGBO already guarantees a patient's right to written information and that the pending and still to be implemented Wkkgz further clarifies and improves the patient's information position for both curative and long-term care;]] [[Considers that, in addition to informing the patient properly, the practical involvement of the patient in his own treatment through shared decision making can provide a bridge between the patient's expertise and the patient's personal preferences;]] [[considers that it is ultimately up to the treatment to improve the patient's information position;]] [[Calls on the Government, in consultation with treatment providers and the field to identify improvements that treatment providers can still achieve in achieving better information provision for patients, and to inform the Chamber in 2015 by letter of its outcome including, if possible, a time planning to be formulated by treatment providers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Wijngaarden and Mr Bouwmeester. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33898-2]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u98	I have just heard a minister who has promised everything very generously and in an extremely positive tone about this citizens' initiative. I know the VVD as a party that never supports unnecessary motions. That sometimes goes wrong, but that aside. In addition, the VVD never wants to file unnecessary motions. I wonder why the VVD still does that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u99	In the spirit of the same generosity as Mrs Dijkstra refers to, we would also like to highlight our commitment to the initiators. We also think it is important for the Chamber to give a ruling. Moreover, we think it is important that the Chamber should also point out to the caregivers how we are in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u100	Perhaps it would have been nice to sign the motion together in order to show the citizens' initiative that it is being carried in Chambers. I would therefore be happy to co-sign this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u101	Yes, but I just filed the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u102	This can always be repeated; this happens more often. It seems collegial if you just say yes, if someone's offering.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u103	For the context, I would just like to point out that we have moved in with the VVD because we think it is very important that patients are better informed and can decide together. That's the context in which we put the motion together. If the rest of the House of Representatives supports this and likes to vote: be our guest! I think everyone agrees with us. We have taken the initiative together, but: the more souls, the more joy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u104	So you can simply retable the motion, Mr Van Wijngaarden. That's not a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u105	I hear that the motion can be retabled. I agree with Mrs Dijkstra that we have heard a minister who was extremely generous. It has made good commitments and announced actions in a number of important areas. Shall we make a motion together in which we thank the initiators and encourage the Minister to take action? I'd love to sign it. If that is not possible, I am happy to sign the motion that has just been tabled. Then we will also ensure that we show outside that the whole Chamber supports the Minister in the good steps she wants to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u106	I tabled this motion with my colleague from the Labour Party. The other colleagues have been warmly invited to support that motion, but the submission is being made by the two of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u107	So I understand that we can vote in favour, but we cannot put our name underneath it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u108	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u109	I had a motion prepared. I'm not filing it because I thought it was a nice debate. I'll say the same in my term. I think it is a bit harsh that we should not be able to table a motion in common, even though we have agreed to the citizens' initiative and we have held a hearing and asked the Minister about it. I'd like to make that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u110	I regret that, of course, but I stand by my point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u111	Mr. Chairman. I hope the Minister doesn't think I want to twist her words, but I want to highlight a remark she made, because I liked it. She said that she found it so powerful that Mrs Smit had made something very sad very positive. I agree with her. I find the Minister's tone today in the debate in relation to the letter she wrote almost two years ago in response to the citizens' initiative really a different one. That's a compliment to her. I thank her for that. There's room. There must indeed be a movement whereby the patient and the doctor jointly decide on the treatment. This includes providing good information. I counted what we all get from the Minister. We're gonna get a few more laws. We will have that transparency plan. The Minister also said that there is a great deal of commitment at the moment to making medical guidelines understandable to patients. I would like to ask her, when that transparency plan comes, to give us an overview of what is going on with these medical directives, and I know that the Quality Institute is in the process of doing so, but I am sure she will be able to inform us about this and when we can expect the laws. How does she see that? I would like to give two warnings on what we are going to discuss in the near future. I believe that self-regulation of the sector can also go through. We must ensure that every hospital provides its own information so that there can be a kind of forest so that we no longer see the trees. I'd like to give that to the Minister. I would also like to inform her that not the well-informed, highly-educated, internet-available patient or consumer should be our starting point in the plans we are making, but that we should start from the people who do not have access to information or cannot properly understand that information. We must not forget them in the plans that are now being made. If we strive to do so, we are doing the most right to the citizens' initiative, for which I would like to thank the initiator most sincerely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u112	Mr. Chairman. I also think it is important to note that the Minister has shown a very open attitude towards this citizens' initiative. In fact, she said she might have written it herself. We have seen together that we do not really need any other laws, but that we need, above all, a field that is going to work on this. Mrs Leijten has indicated: watch out for overload as well. I find that interesting, because she has just addressed the Minister herself about the overload the Minister warned about. She's doing the same thing now. That is quite right, but we have also discussed here that we should try to harmonise it as much as possible. We must try to ensure that good websites, which patients are also informed about, are available. What we have actually established with each other is that it is not so much a question of writing, but above all a question of providing good information, in whatever form. This enables patients to participate in decision-making about their own treatment and to face the risks, but also to have an insight into the alternatives. This has not been mentioned much yet, but I assume the Minister will take it with her when she comes back to this in the various laws. I would just like to thank the initiators once again for the work they have done on this citizens' initiative and to have the patience to wait. I realize it may never be quite what you want, but it's a path we should go together. We have now made an important start on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u113	Mr. Chairman. It is a celebration for the bureaucracy that this citizens' initiative has been presented today and that the spirit of this initiative has such a huge support. That's also a very good signal for the patient. We have been talking here all afternoon about the emancipation of the patient and about tailor-made information. That should become the norm, because it contributes to the emancipation of patients. During this debate, I actually went through my head for the last two years. What a lot of steps have we taken together that contribute to emancipating and informing the patient! We called it "watch-and-listen." We have a chief listening officer, we have a time out, we have that central information site and we have all kinds of tools. These are all very good examples, which I am actually very proud of. I'm proud of the patients, proud of people like Mrs. Smit and proud of the caregivers. It is good to take these good examples a step further and to look at it by profession, with a timetable. I tabled a motion on this with my colleague. Let us, above all, take this one step further together. In fact, I might be a little crazy to say that from this place, and I am also very proud of the entire House of Representatives, which has said together: we need to take this initiative a step forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u114	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Smit has taken a positive step forward from a very sad experience. She was supported by tens of thousands of people. It is going to help many tens of thousands of people with this citizens' initiative and with the work that the Minister is actually working on. This is just the beginning. I would like to thank the Minister very much for the way in which she is working on this and also for the way in which she is picking up the glove. A compliment for that. She said it herself: the thousand pebbles lying on the beach are going to throw them into a pile, so that the patient can see where the information is. She's also gonna make sure that the patient is entitled to this information. Then it is also a question of 'I say it this time carefully 'that every patient gets good information about the 100 to 500 most common diseases and that they also know that they can get them. I have another question about the letter we'll get from the Minister. Will it also ask doctors, hospitals, patient associations if they are 100% behind the Minister's timetable and action plan? Collaborating is extremely important in this respect. I'll come to a conclusion. A healthy person has a thousand wishes, but someone who is sick actually has only one, who wants to get better. Getting better starts by understanding what the treatment is, what the alternatives are for it and where you can deal with your concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u115	This brings to an end the second term on the part of the Chamber. The Minister indicated that she could be right in answering the questions put and giving a response to the motion tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u116	Mr. Chairman. The Wkkgz law is in the Upper House. A report from Actal has caused some delay, but I hope that we will be able to deal with that law quickly. I think it is a very important law for the patient's position. We are busy with the WGBO, but it still has to go through the whole route. This means that it must first pass the Council of Ministers and the Council of State before it arrives here. So that will take some time, but we are very busy working on it. The transparency plan is the first thing that comes into the Chamber. That transparency plan is, of course, also at the heart of the matter. What the Quality Institute does is, among other things, to make what is delivered transparent. We used to have medical guidelines that were only understood by the people who worked with them as doctors or the professionals. The Quality Institute has indicated that these medical guidelines are also available to the patient. So that goes by directive. They all need to be converted. That is what the Quality Institute is doing, but I will take the current state of play into account in the transparency plan. So the Chamber can see what it is and where we are in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u117	A very short technical question: when can we expect this plan to be about?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u118	It's my bet that the plan in the revised version will have to go to the Chamber this month. I can see everyone's freaking out, but we're working feverishly. However, I want a plan that does not just contain an annual timetable, as was the case. I want all the steps in time to be in it. The experience has taught me that otherwise things will slow down a bit. We only have one year and it's going very fast; we're already in the middle of January. That's the planning. There has been talk of hospitals' own information. It should not be the case that if someone goes to hospital 1 for treatment, there is other information than in hospital 2. Academic hospitals have a lot of knowledge of some very complicated things. I'm very happy when academic hospitals do all their own things for the complicated stuff. You often go to the LUMC for other things than the Radboud. There's got to be an overview of that. That information should also go via kiesbeter.nl. I don't want us building a new forest through the hospitals when we already have a forest so we don't see the trees anymore. I absolutely agree with the starting point. I myself find that I really do not understand some of the medical information that you often see, while I have to work with complicated texts very often. Can you figure out how you see that when you never have to do that at all? Yesterday I saw an animation after which I thought: because of this video I am quite clear what is happening here. Then it's not just me. Of course, this cannot be done overnight for all treatments, but it is something we really need to work on. Doctors have been asked to ask patients if they are behind the timetable. I have a timetable that I will report to the Chamber, stating what the Quality Institute is going to do. I want the first stroke of it to be that the pebbles are collected. The second stroke must be that you see very well the white spots of who has to get into the legs. Those aren't things I'm linking in a row, they're things I want to switch in parallel. The motion calls for a treatment time schedule. It's up to the treatment guys. So I ask them their timetable for that too. It's two different things. I don't really want to make my timeline dependent on that. That's what I want to keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u119	The Minister's right. I might have had to rephrase it. Here's what I'm talking about. If we are to achieve this, it is important that both the professions and the hospitals and the patients' associations have the same objective in mind and, together with the Minister, say that they should have landed there in about a year and a half. So it's really about the question of acceptance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u120	Then we will find that some will say: pff, we already have. Some will say: yes, we will go along with it and then we will. However, some will really lag behind. We must therefore pay close attention to this. Everything's so scattered. There are professionals, such as oncology and cardiology, who do things that we think are very important and that they are very far away from. By the way, I am failing to mention others which I do not mention here. However, there are also professions that do not yet have the most basic things to do. If we get this straight by mid-year, we can be much sharper on it. At least we'll have some insight into it. Then I'll come to the motion. I think this is policy support. If this motion is meant to say to the initiators that we consider it as important as they do and that we are working hard on it, I think the motion is more than supporting policy. I would like to thank the initiators very much. They are thus touching the pulse of society. It is not the doctor who tells us what to do, but we decide that jointly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-15-tweedekamer-4.u121	Following on from all the others in this debate, I would like to thank the initiator, Mrs Smit, for her initiative and explanatory statement. I know she was very excited, but it was very clear. I would like to thank the participants in the debate for the fine debate. This Tuesday we will be voting on the motions tabled.
