ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Economic Affairs to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. In less than a month's time, the expression "after Paris" has acquired a dual meaning. That expression initially referred primarily to the horrific explosion of terrorist violence in the French capital on 13 November, but since 12 December it has also referred to the groundbreaking agreements on climate and sustainability. So destruction and hope in one city are very close together. The legislative proposal we are discussing today contains provisions on the offshore grid which are of great importance in securing the Dutch contribution to the sustainability of energy production, as far as wind energy is concerned at sea. In this sense, we are already working 14 days after Paris on legislation that will contribute to the realisation of the ambitions of the elaboration of the Paris agreements. We have not yet finished discussing the locations of the wind farms with the Minister, but the need for the net at sea, as stated in the present proposal, is not a point of discussion for the CDA Group. We support those elements of the law. Moreover, I would like to hear from the Minister what is really the critical timetable in this dossier. The Minister would prefer to see the law accepted today. I understand that, but I also understand that only on 31 March 2016 will the tenders close for the realization of the first wind farm, namely Borssele. In that context, I believe that the deadline would be acceptable at the beginning of March, especially if the prospect of regulating the network at sea became clear quickly. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. I fell into the house in terms of content, because at the start of my speech I wanted to highlight how the CDA Group thinks about wind at sea and the sustainability agenda. But there's more to the law. I will make a few comments on decentralised power generation and wiring, after which I will consider in detail what my group considers to be the biggest stumbling block in this law, namely the enforcement of the group ban. This brings me to the question of why the government has chosen to deal with these issues in a single law. Why, for example, was the net at sea not included in the legislation on wind energy at sea? The government has chosen to present us with a package of legislation with very different parts. Whether or not she was wise enough to present such an incoherent whole in some sense, today must prove to be the case. The legislative proposal also aims to simplify and harmonise the provisions of the current Electricity and Gas Act. We have no problem with large parts of this harmonisation. The same applies to the rules on small-scale decentralised renewable energy generation. This form of energy generation is, or becomes, of great importance for a sustainable energy economy. The law provides a number of facilities on this point, and the CDA Group is satisfied with the clarification we have received in this respect. Then the subject of wiring, the grounding of high voltage cables. That's gonna raise some questions. We are talking, in a way, about a strange situation. According to the government, cabling is not really necessary, as there are no known health risks associated with living under or in the immediate vicinity of high voltage cables. Nevertheless, the government considers it necessary to regulate wiring and, in particular, cost-sharing through this law. Why is that? To avoid social unrest? What's the government's motive for wiring? Initially, the Minister wanted to determine that a municipality where wiring takes place should pay 25% of the cost. On the basis of the Vos/Mulder amendment in the House of Representatives, a contribution towards carrying capacity has been replaced. That seems to us to be a first improvement. We also consider it reasonable for the municipality to contribute, in proportion to its capacity and taking into account the size, complexity and costs of the wiring project in a municipality, the book value and planned replacement costs with the network operator. All this should be taken into account in determining the contribution of a municipality, because it does not have to stand up for costs that the network operator would still incur. I assume that this capacity of a municipality can be determined according to an objective formula, for example in relation to the distribution from the Municipal Fund or parts of it, at the time when a municipality decides to cable. With this method, local government is forced to carefully consider the usefulness and necessity of the project. A municipality therefore knows what amount to contribute if it agrees to a wiring project. This seems to me to be a neat and manageable method for municipalities. However, as we understand it, the Minister still wants municipalities together to pay 25% of the cost. I'd like to hear from the Minister if that's right. Because if that is the case, we find that strange and not really defendable. This would mean that as a municipality you only know afterwards, when all wiring projects and their costs are known, what the relative share of your project is in the total cost, what amount your carrying capacity is ultimately calculated and what amount you are supposed to contribute. That is impossible for a municipality to use or accept in budgetary terms, and that probably means that there are not many projects. However, the national authorities cannot and should not, in our view, prescribe such a method, especially at a time when the financial potential of municipalities as a result of large decentralisation operations is already under considerable pressure. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. We do have problems with the group ban and we do have serious problems with it. Before I go into that further, I would like to point out that we understand that the ACM has already started to maintain in several ways. Now the ACM is independent, but you can expect some political awareness. In any case, it is not very chic to start this enforcement literally in parallel with the debate in this Chamber. Enforcement concerns more than just the group ban, including, for example, charging posts for electric motor vehicles, there seems to be enforcement problems. In all of this, the ACM prescribes deadlines, which I am told by those involved that they are completely unrealistic. Perhaps the Minister would like the ACM to be friendly again because that is how you are going to ask an independent supervisor to take another critical look at the deadlines in conversation with those involved. The group ban we are talking about today was incorporated into Dutch legislation through the Independent Network Management Act in 2008 in order to develop European legislation. In doing so, the Netherlands has opted for the furthest form of transposition of the European rules, namely through ownership unbundling. Two less far-reaching possibilities, namely the independent system or the independent transmission operator, have not been chosen. The then Minister of EZ's expectation was that other European countries would follow this path, thus creating a level playing field at European level in a liberalised energy market. At the time, there were signs in both the European Parliament and, among other things, in this Chamber that other European countries would not follow the Netherlands. When the Law on independent grid management was discussed in this Chamber, there were serious objections, as witnessed by the Doek-Sylvester motion which was adopted at that time. Those objections have remained, in society, in some energy companies and also in Parliament, especially with our group. If we look at the context in which we are looking at the provisions again today, at least three things have changed. Firstly, it appears that no European country has so far followed us in the far-reaching step: there is no question of a level playing field at European level, as the government expected at the time. Secondly, we believe that the necessary additional legislation and regulations have made a strong and adequate guarantee that networks and network management are not neglected or otherwise threatened if other parts of an integrated company include other activities, including production and distribution. For the record, such a company can only be a government-owned company with reliable shareholders. I assume that the Minister also has confidence in these shareholders, who also own infrastructure and distribution system management companies. Maybe he wants to confirm that trust again today. Thirdly, thinking about the division of companies into our society has changed. The conclusions of the parliamentary committee on self-determination have contributed to this to a considerable extent. In short, we believe that a review of the ban on groups is appropriate. We consider it very important that the Netherlands now has two integrated companies. One of them, DELTA, is very important for employment in the province of Zeeland. Friend and enemy agree that the company has no perspective on independent survival after split. If we hadn't thought of that ourselves, the countless e-mails from the company's employees have brought that to our attention once again. When a company disappears because of economic circumstances, that is sad, but sometimes inevitable. However, it raises serious concerns in my group about ending a company by means of government legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u3	I would like to ask Mr Flierman a question. We have been given a lot of information on this in recent weeks and have been able to think about it. A question has not yet been answered for me, but I'm sure Mr Flierman can do it himself. How does he stand up to the farms which are already divided if the division could be reversed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u4	I shall come back to that in detail in the course of my speech. I hope Mrs Huijbregts will wait for my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u5	That's not my strong suit, but I'll hold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u6	Patience is a good thing, even in this house, Mrs. Huijbregts. As I said, the government's forced termination of a business raises serious objections to my group. For Eneco, therefore, the company is ready to make large investments in sustainability, which are no longer relevant in the event of forced division. The CDA Group wonders whether the Netherlands should want to split up its last large energy company if the rest of Europe does not. We now have the know-how that belongs to such a company, the ownership is in Dutch government hands and there is the willingness to invest in the Netherlands, even if this may be less profitable. Government shareholders also value non-financial proceeds. If you have to go to Essen or Stockholm for investment in sustainability, where you always ask yourself where the euro invested is most profitable in Europe, we really have a different situation. Investments in sustainability in the Netherlands then simply compete with other investments, possibly also in other activities. This way of doing things is literally outlined to me by one of the people from a daughter of an undivided foreign parent company.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u7	I warned Mr Flierman about my impatience, which is why I am again interrupting him with a question about what he is saying. He suggests that investments by public shareholders are made with money other than what originally comes from the customer, the citizen. What's the difference? The customers of these companies therefore pay the investments, while at the time the split was based on the agreement not to do so anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u8	I am not suggesting that public companies invest with other money. I suggest that the decision-making framework and the trade-offs of a public body are different from those of a private-owned company that primarily steers the return on its shareholders. That's a trade-off I got first-hand confirmation that a multinational integrated energy company is different from a Dutch company.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u9	The shareholders are public authorities in this case. The return on these authorities, I hope, can also be to support the regional economy. Eneco suggests in a letter that when the company needs to be further split, it will no longer be able to boost the regional economy. Governments have the opportunity to return the money to the customers, the society in which they fill out that shareholdership.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u10	Yeah, you can. If a government receives dividend, it can, of course, fill it out at its own discretion. That's true. But at the time when a government is a shareholder, it has a steering influence on the company and will thus also be able to steer and influence investments in sustainability. You cannot agree with me, but with a Dutch company a company that is in Dutch government hands is capable of doing so and that will be weighed differently with a company that is ultimately controlled from Essen or Stockholm.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u11	Finally, Mrs Huijbregts!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u12	Isn't it true that this customer, in this case the Zeeland customer, is also paying for regional or other investments that do not all benefit Zeeland itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u13	I don't know. That depends very much on the choice that such a shareholder and such a public body make. In short, we seriously wonder whether we should continue along the path of division. Better halfway than completely lost, says an old Dutch proverb. We risk sacrificing the last powerful Dutch assets we have in the field of energy in width to a principle and a concern that are now sufficiently addressed in other ways, a principle and a concern that is not shared in any other country in this way. Here too, if it is the market that brings about such a thing, that is a pity. Sometimes we think afterwards that we should have intervened earlier to prevent the disappearance of an important Dutch company.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The CDA isn't for that. If, as has been said on many occasions, this Chamber is unable to achieve the right thing, it may be able to prevent the wrong thing from happening. That's what this time is about, as far as we're concerned. There are arguments for maintaining the ban on groups, which I would like to return to Mrs Huijbregt's first question. Of course, we weighed them all together and I want to share the room with you on those considerations. It is said that this law is not about the group ban at all. As far as the government is concerned, however, a law has been submitted for review and no one says that you should not look at the bill in its entirety. Secondly, the Independent Network Management Act is less than ten years old. Isn't it unreliable, as a government, to advocate a change of course already? I have indicated that, in the meantime, the context has changed considerably in a number of respects. In any case, we do not think that a review after such a period is so strange: laws have been called into question in this house more quickly than after a year or eight, for example, the loan system. Three: there is now no level playing field in the Netherlands. It remains to be seen whether this level playing field is there now and whether it will come about with the enforcement of the group ban. After all, we now also know different types of players on the market: companies that only trade in energy, companies that produce or produce and act as subsidiaries of an integrated foreign company, whether or not with Dutch roots, and Dutch integrated companies. The Dutch market has been properly liberalised and this does not change with the removal of the group ban. Four: it is also said that the removal of the group ban will allow new entrants, for example infrastructure companies that are returning to production or trading, while maintaining, of course, a separation from the network operator. That might be possible, but new entrants are an essential part of a liberal market and there is nothing wrong with that. When it comes to network operators or infrastructure companies, they are always public enterprises. It has been said that Mrs Huijbregts asked that Nuon and Essent have been split independently under pressure from the Law. Isn't it unfair that this doesn't happen to other companies? As far as we are concerned, this split between Nuon and Essent did not only happen, and not primarily under pressure from the WON, but was also very closely related to the desire of both companies to expand, when they could not do so in the Netherlands, and to the desire of the shareholders to collect. Both came true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u14	As far as the Acts are concerned, I should like to say that I did not mention the names Nuon and Essent. I asked a general question, because there are more energy companies in this country that have split up in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u15	Yeah, but I'm focusing on the two biggest companies. Mrs Huijbregts may broaden my answer to other companies. Finally, there will be claims for damages and, if so, from whom? The old owners of those split companies have sold their company for a lot of money and the new owners are themselves undivided companies. Although the value of Nuon and Essent has fallen considerably, they have been split into a period before we had the current discussion on the group ban. In short, there is no link between the decrease in value and whether or not the group ban is included in the law. In view of all this, my group believes that the ban on groups should not be incorporated back into the law. As I said, this Chamber is also there to avoid the wrong thing. That brings me to the last element in my speech: a dilemma. We are well aware that the group ban is also included in the current legislation. If this law is not passed, there is still a group ban, but there is no net at sea and there are no further facilities for local, renewable energy generation. If the law comes into force in the proposed form, we will have the facilities for sustainability, but also the group ban. Neither one nor the other is attractive to the CDA group. So we have been looking for ways of removing the ban from the law, or at least not to bring into force the relevant provisions, while at the same time saving the rest of the law. Those possibilities are there. We would, of course, like to hear the Minister say that we have convinced him and that he will come forward with a novella in the shortest possible time to delete the relevant provisions. It can be done very quickly. At the Tax Plan, we've seen that there's a lot you can do in 14 days. It can certainly be quickly if we will cooperate in the most vigorous treatment of such a novelle. We say that in advance. All in all, the law could have been dealt with well before 1 March. I'd like to hear what the Minister thinks of this idea. If the Minister does not want a novelle, he may also decide to suspend the relevant provisions for the time being, for example until it is clear whether the EU is introducing a group ban for the rest of Europe. The law provides for the possibility of introducing provisions at different times. If the existing law is subsequently repealed, we are in a situation where, under the current legislation, we no longer have a group ban, but the group ban has not yet been introduced into the new law. Then there is no longer any way to maintain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u16	I have to ask a question every time, because I don't understand. Do I understand that Mr Flierman wants to abolish another law through a novelle?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u17	No, we have had some discussion in this House over the last few weeks about whether we should ask for novelles or whether the ministers themselves should come up with the idea. I'd like to stay out of that, because that discussion had some opportunity. I suggested that the Minister clarify the articles that govern a group ban in the case of novelle. That was advocated by amendment in the House of Representatives and could very well be done through a novelle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u18	But the ban remains in the old law? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u19	If the law including the novelle is accepted, the old law is repealed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u20	So we're gonna break a law at novelle? Is that the bottom line?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u21	No, that's not what I'm suggesting. I'd like to explain. The current law contains two provisions which need to be kept in mind. The new law can be introduced by Royal Decree at different times and for different articles. No, I'm discussing the second option now. I repeat my words. The law contains a number of provisions introducing the block ban from the old Electricity and Gas Act into the new law. The Minister may delete those provisions from the new law by novelle, but it is also stated in the present bill that the old law is repealed. At that time we have a new law, in which novelle has abolished the group ban, while the old laws have been repealed. So there's no group ban anymore. You can if the Minister wants. If the Minister does not wish to do so, he may, on the basis of the article that certain provisions may be brought into force later by Royal Decree, decide not to bring into force the group ban. He can postpone this until, for example, the European Union decides that the group ban should be introduced across Europe. In that case, there is nothing left to maintain. I'm moving on. With the other parties we have prepared a motion asking for it. We won't ask for a novelle ourselves. Mr Meijer will shortly be tabling the motion on behalf of the CDA Group. I know that motions are usually tabled in second term, but given the importance of the subject which is undoubtedly at the heart of the discussion, it would be a good idea for the motion to be tabled in the first period in this case, so that everyone can react to it in the first period. Should the Minister promise to take the first route, as I hope, the motion will undoubtedly be withdrawn. That'd be great. We await the Minister's reply with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u22	If the CDA says that it has a high priority for Dutch employment, then I am not going to interrupt Mr Flierman. Compliments for that. I would like to return to the beginning of his speech. It was about Paris. Not about the massacres that took place there, but about the climate summit. That's where Dutch interests play. He was talking about a binding climate summit. Article 28 of the Agreement states that everyone will abide by the agreements. If you don't, it's good, though. I have heard countries like India, Japan and South Korea say in the media over the last few weeks: nice, that climate summit, but we will continue with our plans for the construction of coal power stations. Back to the importance of the Netherlands. Will Mr Flierman again explain the usefulness and necessity of the Netherlands within the EU, if the rest of the world continues to do what he is doing and if we, as a solitary EU and within the Netherlands, are the only strict climate targets we impose on ourselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u23	That would require a different debate. We could talk about it for a long time. I didn't use the word "binding," I used the word "job-breaking." That has a slightly different meaning. To my best knowledge, not only Europe, but many other countries are committed to halting global warming. This seems to me to be of great significance to the future of the planet. In that sense, I used the word "job-breaking."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u24	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the STROOM Act, the law merging the Electricity Act and the Gas Act. Today, by the way, I am speaking on behalf of the PvdD. It is a complicated law which has already concerned the moods in the House of Representatives and of which we are playing the end game here today. I'm just gonna drop right into the house: this law still has a big stain that needs to be brushed away in order to obtain the agreement of the First Chamber. That's the group ban, or the forced split. The decision to split was taken in 2006. Even then, the SP was against it, but that did not change the fact that there was a large majority in favour of it. It was thought that the split was necessary to settle a number of essential issues, such as security of supply and to cover a number of risks. There was also the conviction that the whole of Europe would split up. We are now almost ten years further and a lot of experience richer. The Netherlands acted vigorously in 2006 and obliged the split. To this day, the Netherlands is the only country that has implemented the division in this way. Companies like Nuon and Essent split and the commercial leg was taken over by Vattenfall and RWE. They are foreign companies that are system operators in their own country and benefit from a better credit rating. The interest rate on the capital market is essential. This increases for the Dutch companies, which removes the argument that the split creates a level playing field. In fact, we're willingly putting them at a disadvantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u25	So Mrs. Meijer admits that you have a better credit rating unsplit?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u26	Yeah, I admit that. Since 2008, other European countries have not been splitting up at all and they are not generally planning to do so either. Europe doesn't have to do it anymore. Then you get the question of why you'd still do it. Who's gonna take advantage of it? Are those the users who need to be sure that the light is on, the stove is burning and the shower is hot? One of the considerations of splitting up at the time was the security of supply. The number of minutes of interference is lower in Germany, where there is no forced split, than in the Netherlands. At the same time, the Netherlands is one of the most certain countries in the world. The conclusion of the SP is that a split does not affect the security of supply and cannot therefore be used as an argument for a split. Another idea was that splitting up would promote competition. In the countries around us, for example in Germany, Sweden and France, rates are lower. Portugal, Belgium and Norway have the most switching players. Those are all countries that have no forced division. A low price and switching behaviour are apparently not related to forced division. These arguments therefore also lapse. With the idea that the networks should not be used as collateral for commercial adventures, the Minister had a point. However, this has already been extensively secured in Dutch law. The manager's assets are housed in a separate legal entity and constitute a separate asset entirely separate from the energy company and the holding company. This follows from Article 10 of the Electricity Act. This means that a network operator is not affected by debts or by the bankruptcy of another group's e.g. or N.V. Similarly, network management should not constitute collateral for the activities of the energy company. There is already a "loan ban" in the current law. If the commercial leg gets in trouble, then a curator will also have to comply with the law and the legal protection and requirements must not be violated. Here too, the SP has to conclude that splitting is not necessary to establish clear rules. We can safely assume that the countries around us can prove that without a split you can provide a number of benefits, such as security of supply, switching behaviour and low rates, and that the Dutch rules on preventing risks for our networks are fine. No argument has yet been found to be for split. Then I come to the question of competition between the various energy companies in the Netherlands. The Minister is telling us to ensure a level playing field. However, if we were to continue the split now, we would turn it into an unequal competition. On the one hand, we are dealing with energy companies that can lean on their foreign parent company with networks in the holding company, and on the other hand with Dutch companies that can borrow on the capital market on less favourable terms. That is an unequal situation. We use this to destroy the Dutch companies. The Minister has all put forward these arguments in the various debates in order to get his split through. However, these arguments have all been defeated and therefore no longer count. The only thing this minister can rely on is his personal conviction. He's a personal advocate of the split. He is today facing a dozen parties, eight of which are turning against the split. We take a majority of seats with us. That means he has to listen to this majority. He will have to meet them, because that is the way democracy works. The SP concludes that division was perhaps defended by people in full conviction years ago, but that the idea is now completely obsolete. This is evident from the number of signatures that are under the motion that I now wish to submit. The motion is supported by at least seven parties and possibly more. I am aware that it is not customary to table a motion in the first term. However, I think it would be wise to include them in the debate at an early stage. The President shall: Mr Meijer, Mr Flierman, Mr Dercksen, Mr Vos, Mr Ester, Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Ten Hoeve proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the group ban provided for in Article 4.6, sixth paragraph, of the legislative proposal;]] [[whereas the Netherlands is therefore the only Member State of the European Union which makes ownership division legally mandatory for distribution managers;]] [[whereas at the time in 2006 the inclusion of this split bid was based on the expectation that other EU Member States would impose a similar commandment, but that it has not since;]] [[whereas the Netherlands therefore puts itself in an undesirable position of exception;]] [[whereas the Dutch energy companies DELTA and Eneco will face forced division with foreign competitors such as EON, RWE, Vattenfall and GDF who have financial leverage (such as a better credit rating) that suits an integrated company;]] [[Whereas maintaining knowledge, expertise and funding capacity in integrated Dutch energy companies is of great importance, inter alia, in order to stimulate innovation in the field of energy management;]] [[expresses its view that the introduction of such a group ban on distribution system operators is only appropriate if the EU imposes this obligation on Member States;]] [[invites the Government, therefore, to agree that, in the light of the provisions of Article 12.36 of the sixth paragraph of Article 4.6, the obligation of Article 9 of Directive 2009/73 and Article 9 of Directive 2009/73 is extended to distribution system operators, or a similar obligation is established for distribution system operators on the basis of provisions of other binding EU acts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34199-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u27	I come now to the point of wind at sea. This is part of this law. We have shared an ambition for a significant increase in renewable energy. It has to be, because the Netherlands is dangling somewhere at the bottom of the list of countries with regard to the percentage of renewable energy. Within Europe there are only two countries that are even more dependent on fossil energy than we are. So the Minister says that we need to adopt this law now, to ensure that the net for wind at sea can be built on time. I don't think most parties want to put winds at sea in the way. That is why we would like to invite the Minister to work with these sustainable goals and propose that the great pain point, the forced division, be separated from it. I can imagine that people who read or hear my speech are now wondering what a forced division will cost us or, rather, will cost us. We can assume that this will cost 1,500 to 2,000 people their jobs. I'm taking you to Delta, a company that now employs a small 2,000 people in different divisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u28	I'll take Mrs. Meijer to the coastal towns. She says there's a lot of support for wind at sea. In any case, she has overlooked our group. Many people in coastal communities have shown that this is going to cost a lot of jobs. People who may also vote for Mrs Meijer's party will be in the WW in no time. Where do these people find hearing in this room? They consider that to be the exclusive responsibility of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u29	Thank you, Mr Dercksen. I didn't say for nothing in my contribution...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u30	Would you like to speak through the chairman, Mrs. Meijer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u31	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I also said for a reason that a large majority in this Chamber voted for wind at sea. We had to go through that a while ago. The PVV was against it; I admit that. However, I also believe that the construction of these windmills at sea will create jobs. Of course, we can prevent 1,500 to 2,000 people from losing their jobs in these energy companies today. That's what I'm talking about right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u32	We support that. That's clear. We co-signed that motion. But Mrs Meijer cannot ignore the fact that hundreds of residents' associations in the country are fighting these windmills. I even got a ticket from a D66 mayor asking if we could make sure that those windmills are still at sea. People went to the United Nations Compliance Committee in Geneva to ask the Cabinet to comply with the Aarhus Convention. In short, there is great resistance to windmills in society. It wakes people up and makes homes less valuable. Where else will all these people be heard? They don't find it in the SP Group, and that's sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u33	I don't really hear a question, so I think I'll go on with my speech. I just said I'd take you to Delta. Delta is a company that employs a small 2,000 people in different divisions. Both the works council and the trade unions assume that the further break-up and purchase of divisions will result in a loss of between 747 and 997 jobs. For employment in Zeeland, already a shrinking region, this will be a huge blow, with great social impact. Also splitting Eneco will be accompanied by loss of many jobs, is the expectation. The company is expected to be able to invest less, forcing 130 to 150 people to leave the company. Due to the reduction in the investment space and the necessary savings resulting from the split, it is expected that different activities of the company will have to be terminated. As a result, between 800 and 1,000 full-time functions will expire. In addition, significant effects can be expected from suppliers at home and abroad. There is a scenario in which Eneco, after forced division, will be taken over by another party. In this case, take into account an investment stop for a few years, because the effects of acquisition need to be worked out, and take into account a loss of employment, as it is likely to be reorganised. In summary, the division of Eneco will lead to an inevitable loss of more than a quarter of the total workforce. These figures are also provided by the trade union, an organization which has no interest in splitting up or not. An additional disadvantage of this scenario is that the contribution made by the two companies to the energy transition to date will also be cancelled. When taken over by energy giants from abroad, they will have little interest in the smaller sustainable projects in the Netherlands, but rather focus on large projects elsewhere. Mr President, I will conclude. According to the SP, it is clear that with a group ban or forced division we do nothing or no one a service, we do not achieve any extra security, we do not make extra effort in the energy transition and we do not bring benefits to the consumer. However, there is a good chance that we will turn two Dutch energy companies upside down, let some 2,000 people lose their jobs and make investments in Dutch sustainability initiatives difficult. I invite the Minister to refute these arguments, but insist that he no longer uses arguments that are demonstrably outdated, incorrect or no longer valid. The SP looks forward with interest to the Minister's reply. If the motion tabled is to be put to the vote, we would like it to be put to the vote before the law is put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u34	Mr. Chairman. Last weekend we were all positively surprised by the climate agreement in Paris. After the failure of Copenhagen, it was now or never possible to reach an international agreement to limit CO emissions, so that the temperature on earth does not rise by more than 2 ̊C. For the first time in history, all countries recognise that man is the main cause of global warming and that this will eventually become our greatest security problem. But an agreement that is on paper is not yet a reality. Paper is patient and reality resists. Much remains to be done in the Netherlands in order to achieve our own sustainability objectives. Is it true that, if we are to be able to comply with Paris, we must intensify the agreements of the energy agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u35	I don't want to interrupt every time, but it's almost impossible to avoid. The climate agreement has become a non-binding agreement to which everyone can abide, but if one does not, it is also good. I refer to Rule 28. Mr Pijlman says that we have a lot of things to do in the Netherlands, but China will continue to build coal plants. India will continue to build coal power plants. The whole world will continue to build coal power plants, even if it is only because 2.5 billion people have been added in 2050. When is D66 going to look at the international perspective of this climate action?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u36	It is good to hear that Mr Dercksen is thinking internationally this time and not nationally. That's a big step forward. I admit immediately that he's about the only one who doesn't think climate change is an item.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u37	I didn't get an answer to my question. We always look internationally, but we look from the interests of the Netherlands itself. As we do today, we are looking at the interests of the employees of Eneco and DELTA. However, my question was what we are going to do as a mini-country. What impact does the Netherlands have on all climate change if the world continues to do what it is doing? Whether there's one, ten or a hundred climate summits, the world's going on with what it's doing, and that's building coal power stations. You want to talk in that weird Tax Plan that you have now approved about the closure of new coal power stations that we have. In China there will be 363! Why? Answer the question when you look at the international perspective of climate policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u38	Every day we look at the international perspective, including climate policy. That is precisely why we believe that a country such as the Netherlands should also shoulder its responsibilities. That is true when it comes to coal, that is true when it comes to wind at sea. You have nothing more to report internationally if you can't stick to your own principles. Apparently, that's what you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u39	Finally, Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u40	I want you to realise that we are responsible for 0.5% of CO emissions. So all we're doing here is messing around in the margins. What happens in Asia or Africa matters. Those countries aren't gonna do anything about it. They just say that, it's in the paper. When do you realize that all these expensive measures that put our prosperity at risk have no impact on the climate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u41	I can only say once again that I am pleased that all countries, all countries, want to relate to the Paris agreements. Mr. Chairman. When will the cabinet present an updated overview of the energy agreement which includes the Paris agreements, I would ask the Minister. The D66 Group realizes that the legislative proposal before us is the next step to bring the Dutch sustainability objectives closer. D66 appreciates the fact that the proposal in question was established in an open planning procedure. The current law makes it possible to start with wind at sea. All the preparations have been made to unsubscribe the first tender. Companies also seem to be in the starting blocks to register. TenneT is ready to "plug." This law is needed to launch the process of a significant increase in renewable energy. And that's what's needed. After all, our country is lagging behind Germany, for example, in terms of renewable energy. The energy market is moving enormously. Conventional fossil generation is under pressure. For example, Germany has given itself the task of speeding up the closure of nuclear power stations. Integrated companies own those power plants. The risks that arise from this can be reflected in the systems. This meant, for example, that the Land of Hamburg, where there are two nuclear power stations, decided to separate the systems from the commercial companies and place them in public hands. In our country too, the energy market is in full swing. The Borssele nuclear power plant is closing down. We want the old coal plants not only to be abandoned, but also the new ones. At the same time, renewable energy production is being started and decentralised energy generation is becoming increasingly possible. Large foreign energy companies, such as Vattenfall and RWE, have had to write off billions on their commercial purchases. In their case, the taxpayer will pay for that. These uncertain and changing market conditions cause job losses, but also create new ones. Years ago, the Netherlands chose to protect the energy infrastructure from commercial activities by detaching the infrastructure from the market providers and keeping it in public hands. The infrastructure must not depend on commercial activities. This split disconnected the networks of Essent and Nuon. The remaining commercial activities were sold. Local authorities got 20 billion for it. Parts of these resources were used to prevent government savings from passing on to citizens. Investment was also made. Sometimes in renewable energy, often also in infrastructure with which the local and regional economy was strongly stimulated and jobs created. The split of energy companies that entered into force in 2008 and should have been completed in 2011 continues to be an issue. Eneco and DELTA resisted and went to court. After years of proceedings, the state was right. The split was justified. The companies are launching a major campaign to ensure that there is no network and commercial activity in a holding company still under the group ban, because that is what it is actually avoiding. However, the Lower House decided to maintain the group ban. The Smaling amendment was rejected after a roll-call vote. And now the bill is in this house. Perhaps the main question here is whether we want a level playing field for energy companies in Europe or whether we want a level playing field in the Netherlands. After all, unlike the Netherlands, Europe does not require division at regional level. This is left to the Member States. If we continue with the group ban that prevents the separate companies from being in one holding company, Eneco and DELTA believe that they are significantly behind European competition. But if the split is not continued and the simple farms are not stopped, then the new energy companies, where more than 1,000 people are now working, are severely disadvantaged. In addition, the State runs legal risks. After all, a state that has a staggering policy automatically creates risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u42	Can Mr Arrowman explain why the new energy companies are lagging behind? They cannot buy nets, whether the split is continued or not. The situation is as it is, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u43	That is precisely why they have gone to the supervisor. The law must be enforced because they feel that they are lagging behind. After all, they cannot obtain what others still have at the moment, namely the nets.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u44	I'm going on at this point. It is interesting to see that in Germany, where no division has taken place, small renewable energy companies are doing extremely well. Even 93% of all small new generation of renewable energy is in the hands of new businesses. Apparently, it's possible to flourish in such a situation as a new party. I do not see very well what kind of blockade there is for these new players now that the networks are so well protected, free access is regulated and a principle of non-discrimination has been introduced, which means that everyone must be able to access them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u45	I will come back to that, for example, when I talk about creditworthiness. I agree with Mrs Vos that these small, often local initiatives are doing very well. It is also the power of this law that it contains an experimental article. This will help to promote such initiatives. That's what we're here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u46	Mr Pijlman spoke about legal claims. I wonder what he's referring to. There has indeed been split up, but this has led to a huge or huge amount of money being made for the Dutch shareholders or that the money has gone to the foreign companies. You knew you were buying a split company, and you did. In hindsight, you may have paid too much for it, but you did it with your eyes open at the time. What could be the basis for legal claims if the government makes a legislative change?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u47	A government that pursues a sweeping policy is at risk. We are not just talking about the Nuons and the parties behind them, Vattenval and RWE. Indeed, I do not believe that they feel directly harmed. However, I believe that the Dutch authorities may require that new parties on the market be treated in the same way as other parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u48	Mr Pijlman refers to this as a swirling policy. In my opinion, it is always possible in the Netherlands to adapt the law on good grounds and well-founded. That space offers democracy in the Netherlands. Why does Mr Pijlman call this swaggering policy? Why is he afraid that it will lead to claims on this very point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u49	I call it a swirling policy, because the policy that was deployed eight years ago and has been endorsed several times has never been implemented. There are still exceptions due to legal procedures. If, after such a period, you come back and say: we are going to do things differently, it seems obvious to me that some parties feel extremely disadvantaged. After all, they will never be able to get that network again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u50	Mr Dercksen, on this same point or on any other point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u51	On the first point raised by Mrs Vos, namely that new entrants are being delayed by the legislation that we want to change. I asked for the transition figures, because I want to know to what extent these new entrants have indeed been put behind. I do not know whether Mr Pijlman has asked for these figures, but I note that the number of switching to the networks of Eneco and Stedin in particular has been higher since the release of the energy market than on other networks. Where does Mr Pijlman base the remark that newcomers are being put at a disadvantage?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u52	I'll get right back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u53	We're here now. Perhaps Mr Pijlman could do that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u54	It was my first passage. I just wanted to say that it is for that reason that the new energy companies such as Greenchoice and Budget Energy have now asked the regulator ACM to maintain the split.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u55	They asked that, but I'm asking about the facts. The facts are that there have certainly been more transfers on the Stedin and Eneco networks than on the other networks. Mr Pijlman can talk about other parties, but the facts simply show that there are more switch-overs at Stedin. I ask Mr Pijlman to stick to those facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u56	I am not denying these facts, I do not know them, but I am simply saying that the new energy companies are lagging behind and that is why they are going to the supervisor. It's up to the supervisor to act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u57	I also have a question about the new entrants. Mr Pijlman says that they feel that they are lagging behind and that they are therefore going to the ACM. That's okay, but in order to claim damages, it's not about feelings, it's about facts. I wonder how the situation for the new entrants will change if the group ban does not go ahead. After all, they are now dealing with integrated Dutch companies and subsidiaries of integrated foreign companies. Whether they are dealing with only subsidiaries of integrated foreign companies or also with integrated Dutch companies, my assessment does not matter to the new entrants. In my opinion, that would not be a title for a claim for damages.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u58	It's up to the supervisor to determine that. However, due to all the legal claims of others, they can never get into the position of other energy companies. That is a point of principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u59	Mr Flierman once again on this point and then we stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u60	The fact that there are new entrants who only deal with energy is a fact of life. It is difficult for them to complain that they do not have infrastructure and that other companies do. Whether these companies have infrastructure abroad or in the Netherlands, I find less significant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u61	I don't share that opinion. I think it is important that the different companies are treated in the same way before the Dutch law. D66 understands the position of Eneco and DELTA. Now that the split is continuing, it means a severe veining to them. After all, market conditions are much less rosy than they were a few years ago. Moreover, both companies consider that they have separated all the different activities within the groups, so that division is no longer necessary. They also believe that a considerable number of jobs will be lost by division. Especially in Zeeland, where the socio-economic structure is not very strong, this would come hard. D66 points out that maintaining the division should not automatically lead to job losses. All kinds of different figures appear to be circulating. For example, the province of Zeeland uses very different figures than the companies. The companies seem to assume that division should automatically lead to the sale of the remaining commercial business, but it will ultimately be the governments, now the owners of Eneco and DELTA, who decide whether they want to sell or merge or continue independently. Economic and financial aspects and employment aspects can be weighed by them. The position of DELTA is worrying. Many jobs have been lost in the past because of a number of decisions taken by the group. The D66 group appreciates the Minister's desire to work with the province of Zeeland to draw up a plan to strengthen the economy of the province. The creation of new wind farms can also mean something for Zeeland. The D66 Group asks the Minister to inform the Chamber of that plan when it is there, indicating how it can be realised and what the role of the State is in this. DELTA and Eneco believe that their financial position is deteriorating by division. They have separated the various activities within the holding and are supervised by the ACM. So, as they argue, the group ban is superfluous. The banks naturally look at the creditworthiness of the total company. In doing so, the commercial part can also benefit from the higher creditworthiness of the undivided company, as the new energy companies also argue to the supervisor. It is a reason for them now to insist on the enforcement of the law. The opposite, of course, is true. The system operator may suffer from a lower credit rating because it is in one holding company with a high risk business. The regulator ACM says that he will have to significantly increase the capacity if he also has to monitor the cash flows. D66 recognizes that there are also negative sides to division because others within Europe chose only limited for our system. At the same time, we believe that Dutch companies in the Netherlands are treated in the same way. Splitting means that activities are disconnected, but not that activities should be discontinued. The European rules "Directives" and "Directives" and "Directives" provide that once a split can no longer be reversed, but that a later choice to split is allowed. Flanders and Wallonia now seem to be taking steps to split up. That brings me to the point that we as the First Chamber have very limited possibilities to extend the tolerance status of Eneco and DELTA. The split, or the group ban, has been defended by four different ministers from three different parties, now the VVD and previously twice the CDA on the other side and here. Each time the split got a majority. The last time that happened two months ago in the House of Representatives, when the Smaling amendment was rejected by roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u62	Four ministers from three different parties were wise enough, in Mr Pijlman's view, to proceed with this decision. The House of Representatives has supported this a number of times, most recently in the roll-call vote which Mr Pijlman refers to. In his speech on this point, Mr Pijlman seems to suggest that it is wise to follow that line. If that is the case, perhaps he would like to confirm this in a moment. I wonder how he assesses the voting behaviour of his D66 colleagues in the House of Representatives. They voted in favour of Mr Smaling's amendment at the same roll-call vote. Have they become a bit unwise?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u63	Two ministers of Mr Flierman's party have just defended the split here and on the other side. This inconsistency cannot therefore be blamed on me by Mr Flierman. We have our own responsibility here, of course. Ensuring consistency in policy and feasibility of policies is one of the tasks of this house. I can only say to Mr Flierman that different considerations have been made. However, now that the House of Representatives has rejected the amendment after a roll-call vote, I can hardly see any further possibilities. I know that Mr Flierman does not agree. He has therefore tabled a motion and mentioned two situations, including those of the novella. I certainly do not see how the latter should be now that there is a clear majority in the House of Representatives. However, we can differ on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u64	What intrigues me is that Mr Pijlman is actually saying that if the majority of the House of Representatives, possibly by roll-call vote, agrees to something, the House of First Instance should accept it. That seems to me to be a denial of the function of the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u65	I did not say that at all. Mr Flierman is twisting my words. I have said that we each make our own assessment and that we have our own position within the system. Of course I respect that. That's what we're here for. I have just pointed out that four ministers from three different parties, including twice a CDA minister, have defended the group ban here. That was a piece of history. After all, I'm a historian.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u66	Speaking of novelles, yesterday we discussed one created by the intervention of the D66 Group. This has been preceded by a whole negotiation process. At the start of these negotiations, the D66 party leader wanted a lot of new jobs. Mr Pijlman gets zero in the end, except for a few scatterings. How does he feel about the jobs we are talking about today? What about the jobs at DELTA and Eneco? Of course, you can say that 1,800 is not the right number. That's right, it could be 2,000, and in practice it might be 1,500, but it's going to cost jobs. Where the hell did that job party go?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u67	Fortunately, wind at sea is also going to create jobs. Mr Dercksen could take that to heart if he votes against it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u68	Mr Dercksen, I see you want to interrupt again. May I ask you not to ask the same questions all the time? If you have a new question, I'd be happy to give you an opportunity to ask it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u69	Mr President, I am not even getting a start on an answer from Mr Pijlman. In fact, I will be speaking later on about jobs and subsidy jobs. So you'll be served at your beck and call. Mr Pijlman says he is in favour of new jobs. His party leader calls that on television at every opportunity. I ask Mr Pijlman what he stands for in this dossier when DELTA and Eneco are about to put a lot of people out on the street. I'd like an answer. I tried twice. If he doesn't answer, that's an answer, of course. Then let's make a deal like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u70	I have argued that the energy sector is moving so that jobs are lost and jobs added. Every job that disappears at DELTA or Eneco is too much, but I cannot put aside the premise that one company should be equal to the other before the Dutch law. Mr Dercksen also knows that wind at sea is going to create a lot of new jobs. I am therefore counting on him to reconsider this before taking his final position. For the interruptions, I argued that the group ban was defended here and on the other side by four different ministers. For our group, the starting point remains that the energy infrastructure remains in the hands of the government and is not exposed to commercial and risky activities. Moreover, we do not want this case to lead in any way to delay the sustainability objective of wind at sea and to delay the tender. It's absolutely not worth it to us. There is 12 billion ready to attract large investments and further enable them to create thousands of new jobs and also ensure that the Netherlands achieves its sustainability objectives better. That brings me to other aspects of the law. One of the possibilities of the law is the wiring, whereby the system operator brings parts of his system underground, upon request. Mr Flierman has already spoken about this. In the reply, the Minister states that this may bring benefits in order to increase the use targets of an area, but also disadvantages related to national and international benchmarks. It is up to the supervisor to assess whether there is still cost-efficiency in wiring. The Minister also raised my questions about the wiring of a cost-sharing system between the user, the system administrator and the municipality concerned. Can the Minister clarify how this is going to work in practice? How are the costs distributed and how does the key come about? For the D66 group, the experimental article is of great importance. It gives local initiatives the opportunity to experiment, thereby increasing citizens' involvement in energy issues. The new renewable energy earning model could lead to much more local solutions: the user who generates energy himself, trades locally and becomes as independent as possible from the central energy generators. Experiments like on Ameland are examples of this. The whole island wants to be energy independent and CO neutral by 2020. This law now offers opportunities for experimentation. Can the Minister promise the D66 Group that we will be regularly informed about the experiments requested, the results and the evaluations of the experiments and thus the impact of these results on legislation and regulations? In this context, I would also like to hear from the Minister how he intends to deal with Mr Jan Vos' motion, adopted in the Lower House, in which he asks for room for the infrastructure of companies to support the energy transition. This is, of course, a sensitive subject in the light of the split discussion. After all, risky activities should be avoided, but at the same time some scope seems possible because they are public activities, which can be counted differently from commercial activities with much longer payback models. Can the Minister inform us how he intends to implement the motion? One of the most pressing questions arising from this bill concerns the position of the Borssele nuclear power station. The Minister replied to my question that it is undesirable that the nuclear power station in Borssele should be in foreign hands. He replied that, pursuant to Article 2.3 of the legislative proposal, he could refuse or impose rules on the ownership of the nuclear power plant on the grounds of public security, security of supply or security of supply. The D66 Group assumes that the future of Borssele will be achieved in close consultation with Parliament. Can the Minister undertake to do so and inform us on a regular basis? Yesterday, we discussed the new tax plan, which included 100 million for energy-saving measures in construction. D66 urges the cabinet to use these resources for local initiatives that are often ready and are not currently funded. I would like an answer from the Minister. So much for my first term. We await with interest the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u71	Mr. Chairman. In the view of my group on the recommendations of the GRECO Committee, I should like to say the following before we vote on the VVD Group's contribution. In my resume it says that I am chairman of the Supervisory Board of Intergas Holding B.V. The network company Intergas Energie was sold in 2011. Intergas Holding is responsible for the liquidation of any risks and is therefore no longer an operational company and therefore not a party to this legislative proposal. The VVD Group sees this proposal to the Electricity and Gas Act as also referred to by the "Law STROOM".. mainly as technical in nature and important in order to stimulate and facilitate new innovative developments in the field of energy generation and application, while achieving a better balance between production and use. That is one of the most challenging tasks for the coming time. The objectives of the Energy Agreement are ambitious, especially measured in time. For this reason, the VVD supports the Minister's efforts to bring this law into force on 1 January. However, it does have some reservations about the flexibility or rather the occasional absence of such a provision in the transitional period granted to undertakings for the purpose of phasing out or converting some of their activities. This is the case, for example, with the issue of loading posts. Every bit helps to achieve the enormous task agreed in last week's climate agreement. Can the Minister indicate what consequences that agreement will have for our national energy transition?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u72	In my contribution, I said that Eneco and DELTA are interfering in the market for sustainability. I have argued that we are going to destroy these companies and that it is likely that large foreign companies will not move on our Dutch market in terms of sustainability...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u73	I've heard all that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u74	... but more in big projects. Perhaps you can go into that, especially because you attach such importance to sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u75	I see that Mrs Meijer and I have an agreement and that is impatience. I have just begun my speech and I ask her to be patient. I can serve her very well, although it won't be entirely to her own liking. In general, the legislator is always a few steps behind innovation and the speed of society, science, entrepreneurship and their innovative capacity are often significantly higher than the legislator can keep up. This is certainly true of the energy transition, where traditional institutions and patterns have to make more and more room for unconventional businesses and networks in order to develop a wide range of services for consumers and to contribute to the objectives of the energy transition. Ten years ago, the prospect seemed unthinkable that we would be self-sufficient at home with the solar collectors on our roof and would be part of a local network or speaking for myself that I would drive a hybrid car myself. It also seemed unthinkable on a larger scale that the supply business of energy would be no more than a trading firm with smart ICTs and would have to compete on efficiency, service, sustainability and price. Ten years ago, the customer was still a connection, whether a complainant, should now be thought and acted on the comfort of the customer, which has become critical of the new options and the growing sense of sustainability. In short, new developments must also be facilitated in regulation and not limited. The notion that we do not know the technique of ten years from now also requires space and courage to give it a chance. But that does require a clear frame of the playing field, such as resetting game rules and delimiting players' roles in the transition process. Since the introduction of the Independent Network Management Act, the boundaries of the rules laid down therein, such as the group ban, have been explored and a grey area has developed around the so-called "free domain." It is therefore appropriate to refresh them again in the proposal before us and, above all, to clarify the 'o' of the Won, its independence. As I said, this should not lead, in a transitional phase, to the abrupt end of successful, innovative initiatives, which have not yet been fully proven. There must be a limit to this, by the way. The abrupt ending is also an unwise thought. However, the struggle for the so-called "free domain" is a difficult one to settle when innovation and sustainability are at the forefront. There's always a tension on that. The free market is reluctant when it requires investments and costs that are not clear whether they will ever be recovered. Network companies say they're doing it from the point of view of their social function. The financing of this is done with social money, money from the customers. Network companies are not only public enterprises, but should also keep their tariffs as low as possible for the benefit of non-free customers. Does the Minister, with the experimental space, think that tension should be removed? How does he intend to encourage market players to take over that role of network companies? An important part of the legislative proposal is the organisation of offshore wind energy infrastructure. In the examination of Law 34058, the wind energy at sea Act, several groups referred to the treatment of the Law STROOM under the assumption that it would make a basic choice for wind energy at sea. In the meantime, it has become clear that this decision-making process has gradually taken shape and is taking its final form through the spatial track in the National Water Plan. Is it true that we have passed the stage "or" long and wide, that in the law STROOM we determine the "how" further and that then only the question "what" lies ahead? The questions we had were answered in detail and to our satisfaction. This would allow me to end the VVD contribution to this debate. It is clear that, in the light of a few clarifying questions, my group is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u76	I had an interruption debate with Mrs Huijbregts during the debate on wind at sea on how much the VVD is a fan of all those windmills. I think she has asked the Minister whether this is a final choice for windmills. In the meantime, we're six months away. TenneT has now explored the bottom of the Westerschelde to lay down cables. Perhaps we should come to the conclusion that the windmills are going to be there and that this policy is VVD policy. The windmills which, according to her captain, are operating on a subsidy are all over the country and will soon be off the coast. The VVD is the great initiator of that. How does this ever relate to the original deployment of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u77	I have no idea what Mr Dercksen is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u78	Mr Dercksen, you can make another attempt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u79	That might explain a lot, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u80	About you or me, we'll leave that in the middle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u81	Let's do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u82	It's the end of the year, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u83	Let me keep it simple. The Prime Minister once said that windmills run on subsidies and not on wind. That's step one. The next step...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u84	I'm glad you're helping me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u85	I'd like to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u86	Sorry, Mr. Chairman, I'm glad Mr. Dercksen is helping me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u87	Let's do it with numbers. At the wind energy at sea we have reserved 12 to 18 billion for subsidies for wind at sea. For the Gemini Windpark and a windmill park elsewhere at sea 4.5 billion is available and further 15 billion for wind on land. All this is about 40 billion grants, all initiated by this cabinet and carried out by a cabinet in which a VVD minister plays an important role. Are you prepared to establish that the VVD is actually the greatest friend of all windmills on land and in the sea?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u88	That's a very suggestive question I can't say yes to or no to. I do think it is important to know where we stand in the decision-making process on wind at sea and the installation of windmills in the sea. That is also the question I asked the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u89	A very short afterburner, Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u90	I never get answers in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u91	Maybe you're asking the wrong questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u92	I've been hired to ask you the wrong questions. That's what I'm happy to do. You are not responding to the fact that the VVD is the windmill party of this country. You'll be proud to drive through this country and see those windmills everywhere. You do not answer, but there is no other way of saying that the VVD is implementing this policy and making it possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u93	Mr Dercksen's question does not call for an answer. He's noticing something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u94	I've been waiting very patiently now, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u95	That's very handsome! We're not here yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u96	You're not here yet? I have another question in relation to your ruling on the "o" from the Independent Network Management Act. In my view, the things we want to deal with are already settled. The company must have been split on paper. You can't just use yourself to go on the commercial paw adventures. It's about that kind of thing. What kind of problem do you think you're gonna solve by going through with that split?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u97	It is a question of maintaining the independence of network management.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u98	Isn't that why we have the ACM?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u99	It must uphold a law, Mrs Meijer! So it has to be regulated by the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u100	Finally, Mrs. Meijer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u101	But haven't we already settled that through other rules and laws? It is forbidden to engage in commercial adventures with your nets as collateral. It's all taken care of. There are two separate accounts. You can't just bet one thing for another. My question remains: what problem do you intend to solve? The enforcement by the ACM is of course something completely different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u102	Maybe we should take another look at it together. In my opinion, that independence is there and those rules are all laid down in the Independent Network Management Act. Then I will come to what Mrs Meijer means. With some surprise my group has noted that the written preparation of this proposal turned out to lead to a plenary discussion of a bill completely different from this Electricity and Gas Act, namely the proposal to repeal the Independent Network Management Act or the group ban. I'd like to think about that. In the opinion of the VVD, this law, which was adopted in the Upper Chamber in 2006 with only the vote against the SP, i.e. by an overwhelming majority, is not under discussion. In fact, this bill, as part of the transition agenda, is based on existing legislation, including the Independent Network Management Act. An independent system operator, as it is now called, is, in the opinion of the VVD, even the prerequisite for renewal. This can provide a fair opportunity for newcomers and achieve the objectives of the energy agreement and the energy transition. This law has laid the foundations for efficient, reliable and sustainable energy supply at the lowest possible cost in the last decade. The objective was thus set in 2005. The ultimate goal was to allow the different companies to operate on a market basis through this system choice, thereby reducing the costs for the customer and becoming more customer-oriented. Research had shown that traditional companies had too much fat on their bones, which mainly manifested itself in staff functions and indirect functions. Energy companies that split their business activities into independent parts, the so-called first movers, reduced their costs, especially for staff, to some half. The focus was not on splitting up, but on streamlining and making the various business processes transparent and efficient. The aim was to reduce costs and lower rates. This cost a lot of jobs for a number of companies. That made sense. With the profits of the network companies, the loss-making business lines were financed. As a result of the disappearance of this funding flow, a number of activities were no longer profitable and had to be radically reorganised or divested. A number of companies have resisted the Act's independent network management for their magical reasons. These companies are not split. Following the judgment of the Supreme Court on 26 June, Eneco and Delta only have recourse to Article 1 of the first ECHR protocol. However, the introduction of such an appeal does not have suspensive effect, so that they will have to comply with the provisions of the Independent Network Management Act. The combination in time of this ruling, the judgment of the ACM and the handling of the bill Modification Electricity and Gas Act in the House of Representatives, was purely a coincidence. As a result, however, the substantive and political debate on this bill has focused on the legality of the Won. Since an amendment to that effect was rejected by the House of Representatives, all eyes have been on this Chamber. This is evident from all the e-mails we received. However, expectations are based on incomplete and incorrect information. It's expectations the First Chamber can't live up to. We need to be clear about that. In this context, I should like to say a few words about the motion that has been tabled. I must say in advance that it gives me a feeling that a motion of this kind has already been tabled at the beginning of the debate. It is a good practice in this Chamber to open the debate together. The basis of the debate is that we are open to each other's beliefs. We're trying to convince each other with arguments. Above all, we must be open to the arguments of others. This does not make sense in this debate, according to this motion, because the signatories have already given their opinion before the debate. The explanation given by Mrs Meijer, who said at the time of the presentation that this is a majority which is no longer open to discussion, is in my view killing the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u103	Could it have anything to do with the fact that the Minister has put the necessary pressure on some of the parties who may be mixed up in this debate? Perhaps it is not for nothing that the motion has already been tabled in the first term. Could that have something to do with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u104	I have no idea. Mr Dercksen is asking for something I have no knowledge of. He's asking what the minister might think. I know him well, but I can't look into his head.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u105	I can't look into his head either, but I do listen to what is said in the corridors and who gets calls on all kinds of nights and afternoons. I conclude that the motion is not intended to kill the debate, but that there are good reasons for submitting it in the first term. I believe that the necessary pressure has been exerted by the Minister. My name is not above the motion but below it, but I am happy to bring it forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u106	It may have to do with the time I have already spent in the Chamber, but it is a novelty that a motion is tabled in this way, with an explanatory statement stating political considerations as a fact. I also see the motion for a novelle as a novel. In fact, it is a question of withdrawing a group ban, which is a provision of a law that is not now before us. I see Mrs. Meijer shaking her head, but I can't interpret it any other way. In the second term, we will discuss this further. This would, as it were, reverse the judgment of the Supreme Court last June.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u107	I'm arguing that it's about a law that doesn't exist. The law we are discussing now includes Article 4.6, which re-transmits the group ban into legislation. By means of the motion, we are asking the Minister if he does not want to introduce that article.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u108	And I'll tell you what the motion comes down to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u109	Mr. Dercksen, briefly. I ask you not to repeat your question constantly in second and third instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u110	I will briefly put my question. Where did Mrs Huijbregts read that a novelle was requested in the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u111	I haven't had time to read the motion yet. I am referring to the explanations given by Mrs Meijer and Mr Flierman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u112	Mrs. Huijbregts is upset about a motion she hasn't read yet. And then she says we're premature.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u113	Listen, if you're okay...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u114	Ho-ho, we don't speak mixed up and only through the chairman. If it goes like this, we're gonna have chaos, and I don't want that. Mrs Huijbregts will have the opportunity to reply. I call Mr Flierman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u115	If a provision is asked to be removed from the law, it can only be done through a novelle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u116	In my speech, I outlined two ways of achieving my goal. The first road is via a novelle. In the last few weeks, however, we have found in this House that the initiative should be taken by the Minister. So that's not in the motion. The other way is to eliminate a number of provisions, on the basis of one of the final provisions of the law, Article 12 36. That's what the motion calls for. There's no demand for a novelle. The motion calls on the Minister to do something. To my best knowledge, it's allowed in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u117	De facto, that is the same thing: the repeal of a number of provisions contained in another law. May I continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u118	Yes, but do you think about the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u119	But I do get interrupted a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u120	Yeah, but then I'm gonna stop timekeeping.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u121	Really? I'm almost done. I told you, we can't live up to expectations if we take our work seriously. That even the shareholders of Eneco speak of the present bill as the new Splitting Act, gives thought. In summary, this bill does not alter the functioning of the Independent Network Management Act. The group ban remains intact, and my group supports it. In fact, the bill finds its basis in the Won. I cannot help saying to Mrs Vos that I fully agree with her that laws need to be amended on good grounds. I would ask whether she would like to respond to my question later on as to whether she considers this motion to be a good basis for amending a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u122	I will deal with this in my speech in a moment, because it is, of course, a key issue in this debate. I have a question for Mrs Huijbregts. In my opinion, the Won mainly determines how the split is to be arranged. In fact, it's a law of execution. However, Mrs Huijbregts is now saying that the Won will continue to exist anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u123	The division law remains in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u124	However, if the group ban, which is now regulated by this Law STROOM and by the current Electricity Act, is temporarily suspended or whatever, it also affects the division law. In fact, it simply implements what is regulated by the Electricity Act. What is written in the Law STROOM or in the Electricity Act will still be leading.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u125	Sure. However, as an important part of other legislation, Mrs Vos wants to delete a provision from that other legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u126	I'll get right on it. However, the main issue at issue is Article 4.6 (6), which regulates the prohibition of groups. I think we can talk about this very well in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u127	We are. That does not mean, however, that we share each other's views on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u128	I'd just like to clarify something. Mrs Huijbregts says that we want to delete a provision. However, that is not the case. We say that we do not yet allow that provision to enter into force. That's something completely different from a novelle. That must be clear and clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u129	Yeah, that's clear. But the group ban exists. Period. It's working.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u130	Mrs. Jorritsma, you have to be quiet. Mrs Meijer, you will have the floor one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u131	The group ban is in the Electricity Act and the Gas Act. These two laws are now merged into the Law STROOM. In this Chamber we can therefore say that we will not allow this provision to enter into force for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u132	It's working. It's in the Gas Act and the Electricity Act. It's working. It worked, too. It works, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u133	Mrs. Meijer, I think you should do it with that. Come back to it in the second term. Mr Flierman, you will have the floor very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u134	I'm just gonna take over the stick. It is true that the current Electricity and Gas Act contains a group ban that will enter into force. The only point is that those old two laws will be repealed if the new law enters into force. If you withdraw those two old laws and don't let the group ban in the new law enter into force, you have the situation we're discussing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u135	There is a link between a large number of legal provisions and laws. They regulate the independence of the infrastructure of our energy supply and they are closely linked. It concerns the Independent Network Management Act, the so-called division law and the group ban. The group ban is a means of ensuring the independence of the network. Apparently, we don't agree on this. In any event, the operation of the group ban is an important condition for the VVD to maintain the objectives to be achieved in this law and in the energy transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u136	Finally, Mr Flierman. You can do it again and then it's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u137	I would just like to point out that we are no longer talking about whether what is in the motion is technically feasible. We are talking about whether what is in the motion is desirable. I think that is a perfectly legitimate debate in this House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u138	And we're talking about whether it's pure. DELTA and its employees are undoubtedly right to say that the division of business will be accompanied by a loss of employment. As mentioned above, experience in other companies shows that the streamlining of individual business processes not only results in greater efficiency, but also that the combined workforce pool is declining in the long term. Compared to 2007, circumstances have changed dramatically. That is a pity, especially for Zeeland, where a number of negative developments seem to reinforce each other. It is therefore a good thing that the province and the ministry have asked a committee led by former Prime Minister Balkenende to consider future employment in Zeeland. However, I would like to point out that setting up such a committee entails obligations for the Minister of Economic Affairs with regard to the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u139	Mr. Chairman. The aim of the present legislative proposal is to achieve legislation that is clearer and simpler, with less regulatory burden on companies and less burden on the government, writes the Minister. He also writes that legislation is based on European legislation in a clear way, that it facilitates a competitive economy and that the transition to a sustainable energy system is optimally supported. To put it bluntly: the bill certainly does so with regard to the new tasks of system administrator TenneT for the offshore system for the connection of wind farms. The bill also does this with regard to the introduction of renewable energy by connected users with small connections. However, the group ban in paragraph 6 of Article 4.6 of this law, in the view of the GroenLinks Group, constitutes a major obstacle to a competitive economy that optimally supports the transition to a sustainable energy economy. First of all, I would like to highlight the importance of TenneT's designation for wind at sea. I would also like to make a number of comments on another new task for the transmission system operator in this proposal, namely the wiring of high-voltage connections. Finally, I will go into the group ban in detail. Let me make it clear that we are extremely pleased that ambitious plans for wind at sea have been agreed in the energy agreement and that the cabinet is now moving forward with this. After all, we are still far behind in the field of renewable energy, and we are still at the last place in the European context. This is certainly also due to the policy of previous Cabinets. Fortunately, there is now a minister who says he is going to implement the agreement and realise wind at sea. We are pleased with that. It is also absolutely necessary, because by 2020 we will have to meet Dutch targets, and this will require wind at sea. Even in the years after that, we are not there yet. Since the Paris Climate Summit, we know that the current targets are far from sufficient. After all, the idea that by limiting global warming to a maximum of 2°C, we are creating safety for the future of life on this earth has been strengthened. It is said that you should now be able to limit yourself to 1.5°C. In short, much more and more ambitious policies will be needed. We are therefore saying that the agreements in the energy agreement for wind at sea are a very important first step, but that we need to take many more steps afterwards. For my group, the step wind at sea is a step in the right direction. Moreover, wind at sea offers great economic opportunities for the Netherlands with its offshore industry, its high-quality knowledge economy and its technological innovation. The bill regulates that TenneT will be responsible for the construction and management of the nets at sea necessary to transport the generated electricity to the customers. It is very important for the parties investing in offshore wind turbines to have certainty about a well-functioning high-quality network at sea. It is also very important for them to have certainty about maintenance, supervision and risk management. We support the bill on these parts. Rapid entry into force is very important. I'll come back to that later. I would also like to say that the national coordination scheme for the Dutch Coast South transmission system project, which the Minister had also sent to us, is fine. We in the Chamber said that we would involve this issue in the discussion of the legislative proposal. As far as we're concerned, it can go on. I would now like to make a few comments on the subject of wiring. That's part of the law, too. The point is that it is necessary and socially desirable to submerge high-voltage lines that run in the vicinity of homes. This must be made possible. By way of amendment in the Lower House, the commitment has been nuanced that 25% of the costs are to be paid by municipalities. It has been said that now we have to look at the capacity and size of the municipality and the size of the task. However, the Minister now explains this as if a quarter of the costs, in any case, had to be paid jointly by the municipalities. The cost is estimated at 440 million. The municipalities must therefore together raise EUR 110 million. As Mr Flierman pointed out, we hear that it leads to great uncertainty and uncertainty in many municipalities. They say they don't know what they're up to and what it's gonna cost them. Municipalities are afraid that for this reason other municipalities will drop out, which may add to the burden for them. Especially for municipalities with a very big task... For example, a municipality like Geertruidenberg located near the Amercentrale, where the high-voltage lines run through the residential areas, has a huge financial mission and is simply afraid that she will not make it. She thinks that the uncertainty she is in is a major problem. I would therefore ask the cabinet to do so in writing, whether it would not be reasonable for provinces to bear part of this financial burden. They also benefit from the grounding of the high-voltage lines. Is the Minister prepared to commit himself to this and call on the provinces to do so? Will he insist on an appropriate financial contribution from the provinces in the wiring scheme, which is still to be worked out, and also respond to the objections that I and Mr Flierman have just raised? I come to the subject of the group ban, which is a bit the main issue of this debate. At the time, the group ban, i.e. the obligation to separate the distribution system from the energy company, was introduced to ensure that the distribution system would always remain in public hands, even in the event that an energy company would be sold to a commercial and/or foreign party. GroenLinks also supported this at the time, because, in her view, liberalisation and privatisation of the energy market, in which GroenLinks was extremely critical, made it necessary to ensure the public character of these distribution networks. Moreover, the transmission system networks, the high-voltage networks, are fully covered and are also subject to European law. In any case, they must be in public hands. However, in the case of distribution networks, we have come to the conclusion that these networks are in fact fully protected and are equally accessible to all by existing laws and regulations. In my opinion, this does not require the ban on groups. I'm gonna get into that in a minute. At the time of this discussion in the Chamber, the privatisation ban was not yet absolute or legal, but this has been the case since the amendment of the Electricity and Gas Act in November 2010. Moreover, this division is not mandatory in the EU and the Netherlands has so far proved to be the only country in the European Union that has committed this division. For us, therefore, a number of things have really changed since the support we expressed at the time. GroenLinks is currently seeing major disadvantages of the forced division of the two companies that are still integrated and have the distribution networks in the group. Forced separation of the distribution network reduces the credit rating of these companies and leads to higher financing and interest charges. Funding opportunities are becoming more limited and companies will be forced to provide additional financial guarantees. This also restricts the investment space of these companies. This will be at the expense of investment in sustainable innovation and employment in the Netherlands in the eyes of GroenLinks. In addition, companies find themselves in an uneven playing field, not only in Europe, but also in the Netherlands itself. After all, the Dutch split companies are in the hands of large international players who do have distribution networks in the holding company, and thus benefit from, for example, the credit rating. The forced division also runs counter to the increasingly clear perceptions that the integration of supply and distribution will help to make energy supply more sustainable. It is precisely this integration that makes innovations easier and facilitates smart grids and smart solutions, for example with regard to the storage of renewable energy. The future lies in integration, while the law enforces division. It is striking that the House of Representatives has also come to this understanding and that Jan Vos' motion has adopted no family in which it is asked to investigate how system operators of distribution networks can also undertake other tasks in the context of the sustainable energy transition, in addition to their task of managing the networks. To be honest, my group finds it strange to have to break down existing integration and, at the same time, examine new integration, but from the point of view of the distribution system operators. It would be a shame to take irreversible steps now and perhaps to come to the understanding that this forced split has made the path to a sustainable energy supply and transition more difficult. I would then like to consider the reasons why, according to the Minister, a group ban would be necessary. I think it is important to go into this very precisely. We have now come to the question of what added value this group ban has and what additional legal protection will be provided in this way. That is a crucial question for my group. I would therefore like to take part in the discussion with the Minister and to hear his comments on it. It is claimed that a group ban is necessary in order to prevent commercial risks arising from a possible bankruptcy of the energy company in question from being transferred to a network operator in the same holding company. My group does not share that view. The assets of the system operators are housed in an independent legal entity and constitute separate assets, which are entirely separate from the energy company and the holding company. The Electricity Act, and later the Law STROOM, also requires this. The assets of the system operator should also not at present be collateral for the activities of the energy undertaking and there is a prohibition on lending. This means that the system operator should not use the networks as collateral for the activities of the energy company. In the event of bankruptcy, a trustee must also comply with the solvency requirements of a system operator as laid down in the Financial Management Decision, and must not infringe this legal protection. It is claimed that a group ban will prevent network operators from getting into private or foreign hands, but fortunately we now have the privatisation ban which makes this absolutely impossible. It is also said that the independence of the system operator is at stake and that therefore a group ban is possible. There are, however, many laws and regulations, and I have just mentioned them and facts that sufficiently capture that independence. The Financial Management Decision protects the financial position of the system operator and ensures that system operators meet legal minimum requirements for own funds. Compliance is monitored by the Supervisory Board and the ACM. The group ban is not necessary to counter cross-subsidies. Indeed, there is strict regulation from the ACM on the network operator's transport charges. The Energy Act requires the system operator to keep its own and fully transparent accounts. There's a legal lending ban, which I mentioned. The network operator should act non-discriminatoryly and should not favour his own group, as the Energy Act also prescribes. The NMa also considered the risk of cross-subsidies to be low in 2007. Another claim is that the quality of the network could be at risk. I also believe that we have adequately covered this in all kinds of other laws and regulations. For example, there is the Quality and Capacity document to be submitted to the ACM. On this basis, monitoring is carried out and the reliability of the networks is maintained. The Netherlands is doing well on this point, but it is remarkable that in Germany, where the distribution networks are not separated, the number of minutes of interference is even lower. The quality of the nets seems to be even better there than in the Netherlands. The Minister also says that the supervision of a network operator which is part of an integrated business is extremely complex. We believe that there is no basis for this claim and that there is sufficient legal regulation. In practice, it also appears that the supervision of Eneco and DELTA is not more complex than for Liander and Enexis, the split network operators. It is also claimed that a group ban is necessary to ensure equal access to networks and fair competition. I mentioned the principle of non-discrimination enshrined in the law. The facts also lie about this claim, because the Netherlands has a high percentage of transferrs, even though not all companies have yet been split up. Especially in countries such as Portugal, Norway and Belgium, where there is no group ban, the majority are switch-overs. In the Netherlands, in the regions where the system operators are part of a group with an energy company, other companies have been able to gain a share in the market as much as in the regions where there is split. The situation in the Netherlands therefore does not show that it is difficult for other parties to get a place on the market. There is plenty of room in that room and this is adequately secured in the law. I urge the Minister to respond to these arguments and to explain why this group ban is absolutely necessary. I am concerned about the consequences if the integrated companies are forced to split up. Especially if there is no added value, my group has serious doubts about this. It believes that this should not happen. We believe that we must learn from the experience that has been gained. The split companies were bought by large foreign players. Much of the high-quality employment has gone to the headquarters of companies abroad. Control in the regions has been reduced and investments in sustainability and technological innovations in the Netherlands have been put under pressure. In recent years, Eneco, which has not been split, has invested by far the most in renewable energy and sustainable innovation. Many new activities in the area of sustainable innovation have been made possible by Eneco's investments. There is a growing understanding that the real battle for a fully sustainable energy supply will benefit from the integration of network management, trade and supply, moreover secured by strict and strict legislation on network independence. Smart techniques behind the meter with the users of energy are crucial. Real sustainability requires smart grids with great flexibility and a smart interplay between the production of renewable energy, the supply of energy on the grid, the reduction by users and the storage of renewable energy that is not needed at the time. All points out that network management, production, supply and trade together must ensure the innovative solutions of the future and that an integrated approach is needed to this end. Therefore, let us not destroy what that potential carries and is the harbinger of that new future. I therefore ask the Minister not to take irreversible steps and not to allow the group ban in Article 4.6, sixth paragraph than the STROOM Act to enter into force; not until a vision of the future of the sustainable energy supply in the Netherlands and the conditions necessary for it have been developed, not until the discussion is held on this subject, and not until the added value of forced division is recognised in Europe. My group urgently calls on the Minister: do not allow this group ban to enter into force yet. We would like to support the proposal before us, including the importance of wind at sea. However, as long as this bill is destroyed by the block ban on sustainability on other fronts and the reduction of sustainable employment, it is difficult for us to give that support. We therefore support a motion tabled by Mr Meijer. We await the Government's response with great tension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u140	Mr. Chairman. With the bill STROOM, the Minister makes tying. While important steps are being taken to enable large-scale wind at sea, at the same time this bill includes the block ban on regional network operators. As a result, our last two integrated energy companies, Eneco and DELTA, will have to be definitively split, even before other European countries require this or a European directive prescribes it. The Minister thus places political groups, such as the Christian Union Group, who want to support one step of wind at sea and the other forced split, rather than a real dilemma. In the run-up to this debate, the Minister used great words and linked the fate of the whole energy agreement to the outcome of this debate. If you want wind at sea, you have to vote for this law and you are forced to take the other product from the minister as well: the compulsory ownership split. Okay, so we're gonna have a tie sale. There were times when the Ministry of Economic Affairs was extremely critical of this. From the co-legislator perspective, too, my group has major problems with this type of heterogeneous legislative proposal. Let us be clear, the Christian Union Group fully supports the assignment of responsibility to TenneT for the construction and management of the grid infrastructure needed to connect future wind farms at sea. The construction of these wind farms is an operation and investment of unprecedented proportions. And this bill is the final piece of the legal instruments needed to launch wind at sea on a large scale and thus to live up to our ambitions for renewable energy. Ambitions close to my group. In view of the transition statement our country stands for, from fossil to renewable energy, and the agreements in the energy agreement, it is important to adopt this law to provide security for investors in the wind at sea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u141	Can Mr Ester explain why he is so pleased with TenneT as a builder of the maritime infrastructure? The Minister leaves the tender of wind farms at sea to the market in a tender; I think that Mr Ester's party will find that a good solution. Why does he say he's happy with TenneT? Why does he choose a different principle for the construction of the parks than for the network? Maybe another company has much sharper prices than TenneT. In fact, as a shareholder of TenneT, the taxpayer does not run any risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u142	It is, of course, about the protection and safeguarding of public interests. The net that is being built there is in the direct interest of every Dutchman, you and me. There must be an independent guarantee and an independent party going for it, and in this case that is TenneT.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u143	We do not build motorways with a state-owned asphalt company; they are also outsourced. Eventually the roads are transferred to the government, the provincial government or the Empire. That is where we also opt for the system of tendering and tendering. Why does Mr Ester choose TenneT when we opt for a different system in all other areas? Why is he so happy about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u144	These are public goods intended for every Dutchman. It is in the interest of every Dutchman that the energy generated is secured in terms of accessibility and quality et cetera. That's what the law says. This seems to me to be a simple principle. We must not waste our public interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u145	Finally, Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u146	I've completely lost Mr. Ester. I'm asking why...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u147	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u148	One last attempt. Why should we, as a state-owned company, build the infrastructure of our network and create motorways and other things according to a different system? We have them built by private companies and then they are owned by public authorities. I have asked Mr Ester, and I have not yet received an answer to that question: why is he so happy that we choose a system other than the construction of motorways for the construction of the cables to the wind farms? That's where it turns out it's gonna be a lot cheaper.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u149	Mr. Chairman. Mr Dercksen repeats his question and I can repeat my answer, but that does not seem to me to be in your and my interest. He wouldn't want a large foreign company to build the net on the North Sea, would he? I told you, building these wind farms is an operation and investment of unprecedented proportions. This bill is the final piece of it. In view of the transition process our country stands for, from fossil to renewable energy, and the agreements in the energy agreement, the adoption of this law is important to provide certainty to investors. It is also time for our energy supply to become safe, reliable and affordable, an objective that has not been sufficiently developed to date. At the same time, the Minister's answer to the written questions seems to leave room for the start of the first tender if the law is not yet in force, provided that this tender does not end before the law is in force. Ergo: the first tender could simply start on 31 December of this year and end on 31 March 2016, provided that the law enters into force in the interim, for example on 1 March of this year. Can the Minister comment on this variant? Is this a imaginable scenario? This question is also a bridge to the next subject I would like to raise, the pièce de résistance in the bill: the so-called group ban. This ban is a bridge too far for my group. Almost ten years after the debates on the Independent Network Management Act, the discussions on this issue are still intense and heated. This morning we have another example of this. The position of the Ministry of Economic Affairs has hardly lost sight of dogmatism. Trends such as internationalisation and liberalisation and the desire at the time to increase market forces had to lead to the privatisation of energy companies. But in doing so, the energy networks, a natural monopoly, naturally had to remain in government hands. This position led to a far-reaching law which meant that the four integrated Dutch energy companies would have to be split. If you read the reports of the debates at that time in the Lower House in particular, it seems that splitting the energy companies for the then Minister of Economic Affairs was more of an end in itself and not a means that should only be discussed when privatisation takes place. The group ban was, in my group's view, not a necessary and proportionate means of protecting the networks, especially in the context of the European Union. Afterwards, it appears that this was already warned of by the Christian Union, among other things, and that no European country has followed us in forced splitting. Splitsing is therefore not a European policy, with the result that the Netherlands is more "European" than Europe itself and Dutch companies have been put at a competitive disadvantage. In fact, healthy and more sustainable Dutch energy companies and Dutch employment are sold out. That's not supposed to happen, is it? Wrongly enough, it is the foreign integrated energy companies that have taken over Essent and Nuon, which have begun to build new coal plants. Coal-fired power stations did not want my group at the time. Now the majority want to close it, with huge social costs. RWE/Essent has the highest CO emissions per kilowatt-hour produced. Of the seven major electricity producers in the Netherlands, Delta and Eneco are the cleanest and the cleanest. Most sustainable energy companies. I would like to hear a response to this point. In the detailed answers to the written questions of my group and other groups, therefore, I do not find any valid arguments for continuing the ban on groups now. It is a solution to a problem that does not really exist. Should the group ban come into force, public interests will not be served and secured better than they are today, but many hundreds of people will lose their jobs. Especially for the people of Zeeland, that means a heavy blow. Employment is already under such pressure. Quite unnecessarily, large investments in renewable energy from two well-performing Dutch companies are being put at risk and the nuclear power plant in Borssele is lagging behind. Speaking of the nuclear power plant, it is still unclear how the government is going to meet the shareholders, should the compulsory division continue unexpectedly. My group asked in the last written round prior to this plenary legislative procedure exactly what the procedural spelling formula in the reply means. It referred to "an agreed process leading to a well-founded analysis and a clear weighting of possible alternatives." What was my surprise? The answer to this question contained almost the same wording, but not the substantive explanation requested. So I would like the Minister to give me a substantive answer to the question of how exactly the management of the Borssele nuclear power plant will be regulated. Without clarity about the future management of the plant, continuing the ban is an unpredictable and perhaps irresponsible leap into the dark. I have the suspicion that this has to do with the financial consequences. How big are the financial consequences of the ban on the group in relation to the responsible management of the Borssele nuclear power plant? And how does the Minister see the financial responsibility of the Empire in this matter? I come to the possible legal consequences of my group's request that the ban be suspended. It's been discussed a few times. While, on the one hand, the Minister states with some emphasis, if not a threat, that claims can be expected in that case, on the other hand, he indicates that he is unable to assess the chances of success of any claims against the State if the group ban is put on hold. It is clear that the Christian Union Group is somewhat surprised that in that case it can successfully be brought against the State, while no other Member State of the European Union has a group ban and there are in any case integrated or undivided foreign energy companies operating on the Dutch energy market. At the end of my contribution, I will come back to the privatisation dimension of this bill. It is strange to my group that the Minister did not use the ideas of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Privatisation/Seviation Public Services when dealing with this far-reaching and far-reaching bill. The energy sector was one of the five cases examined extensively by the Committee set up by the Upper Chamber. The theme of the current legislative proposal on market organisation, competition, the safeguarding of public interests, management and the role of the government was the essence. The committee developed a special decision-making framework to improve decision-making. My group asks the Minister why he did not make explicit use of this report adopted unanimously by our Chamber. The answer given by the Minister in the written round of questions was unsatisfactory. I'm closing up. It is clear that the Christian Union is opposed to the forced division of ownership in the energy sector. The split is superfluous and disproportionate. She's hurting our national interests. We do not think that our country's own exceptional position in Europe in this matter is acceptable. I would therefore like to endorse the Meijer/Flierman motion tabled earlier in this period. My group looks forward to the Minister's answers to our questions and would like to tell him that it is better to turn halfway than to go astray.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u150	Mr. Chairman. Last Sunday, 20 December, the last day on which the coal-fired power plant on the Waal, at the crossing in Nijmegen, did its job. The 150 meter high chimney, which dominated the skyline of Nijmegen for decades with its characteristic smoke plume, disappears. For many she was a fixed beacon to read the prevailing wind direction. 130 years of coal-fired energy production comes to an end. With Slikkerveer, Nijmegen was one of the first national initiatives we are talking about 1885 and 1886 of large-scale electricity generation with steam plants. Amsterdam followed in 1889. This was rightly a symbolic moment in relation to the current bill and the climate agreements recently made in Paris, because a solar park is planned at the same location. There will be a biomass plant and the construction of a heat grid is "in process." We say goodbye to the industrial coal age and the law STROOM lays down an important basic condition for this by indicating TenneT as a grid operator at sea, which can actually take place the construction of massive wind farms. In conjunction with the Law on wind energy at sea passed in June, an acceleration can be achieved in the objective of renewable energy, which has not been achieved so far by coordinated licensing and lot decisions, and the pre-search phase will end. The PvdA Group supports the Minister's approach. Indeed, it sees this as a driving role for the government to make the transition to a sustainable energy system possible. In view of climate change, we are facing a crucial phase to make meters here. As far as transition phase is concerned, it helps greatly if the government plays a clear and reliable role in this. In this respect, the Minister, Mr Treub, naturally appears in historical context to be one of his liberal predecessors, namely the former alderman, Mr Treub, and later Minister of Amsterdam, who took important decisions between 1893 and 1896. In view of the need for urban expansion, he decided to bring the gas, water and telephone supply under municipal management and thus to address the social problems of housing shortage and hygiene at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u151	It's almost a shame to interrupt this history lesson. I apologise for that, but just as I asked Mr Pijlman, I would also like to ask Mr Verheij about the international perspective of a few coal power stations in the Netherlands vis-à-vis the rest of the world. How's the PvdA in there? Does Mr Verheijen know the studies, which show that CO emissions from biomass plants are higher and that these plants are even more polluting than coal, but at least much more polluting than gas plants?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u152	I agree with what Mr Pijlman has said about this. We must take our own responsibility. Climate change is clearly visible and there is no doubt about it for us. The fact that the emission data of the new plants must also be clearly assessed on their overall environmental and health effects is also clear to us. This will, of course, also have to be investigated through environmental impact assessments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u153	With us in Utrecht they put one on Lage Weide and the environment is right to worry about it. However, biomass plants emit more CO than gas plants. I have heard from the media that the PvdA group on the other side has already said that the money is tossed. To what extent has this position in this Chamber already fallen into the hands of the PvdA Group and, if so, what consequences will that have for the policy of this Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u154	I just wanted to cite the example to point out that a new economy is growing on the basis of new local initiatives that must fit well into the new CO reduction policy that we are going to pursue. This therefore does not mean a free playing field for any initiative that is presented, as this will have to be explicitly assessed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u155	Finally, Mr Dercksen!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u156	Well, biomass plants emit more than gas plants. The PvdA Group in the House of Representatives is concerned about this and rightly so. We've been doing that for a long time. It happens often: when the PVV calls out, the rest arrives a few years later. But doesn't that signal here in this room yet? I am trying to put the question as concretely as possible, but it is strange that it does not yet sound the signal to the Minister to say so. There's billions of grants going on. The SDE+ subsidies to biomass are mega. Wouldn't it be wiser to opt for gas power stations after all? They are cleaner, also in terms of CO emissions, than biomass plants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u157	We need to move towards a much more finer and focused licensing policy, given the different causes for CO developments. This also means that methane gas, in addition to nitrous oxide, will receive much more attention than just the CO we know from the coal-fired power stations. I agree with Mr Dercksen that we need to look at what are the most critical factors that contribute to CO development, but that does not mean that we should not keep an eye on the opportunities at local level for alternative energy generation. I also support the example that is currently 'in process' in Nijmegen. During the examination in the Lower House and in the present statement of reply and the further report, the position of DELTA and Eneco was discussed in detail. Over the past few weeks, we have received many reactions from all levels, from employees, directors and OR from these companies to continuing the division of these companies. They recognize the concerns people have about their future. These concerns are not easy to overcome, as market conditions and public policies are changing dramatically. In fact, the energy sector has been evolving for 20 years since Minister Wijers presented his third Energy Paper around 1995-1996. The reasons for the transition of the existing, then regional production companies by leaving regional self-sufficiency, the liberalisation of European energy market policy and the need for a CO reduction policy have had their effects. With the adoption of the Electricity Act 1998 and the Gas Act 1998 and the Independent Network Management Act, all companies, old and new, and therefore all employees, have had to deal with changes that were highly reliant on innovation and flexibility. In it, companies and shareholders have made different strategic choices. Without electricity it does almost nothing in the Netherlands, so you can't run any risks there. The systems are a natural monopoly. In essence, this is a trade-off between the general interest, i.e. neutral network management and the position of the tied customer, versus the business interests. The legal procedures have so far maintained the application of the legislation in this area. The Minister discussed this in detail. However, the law does not prohibit the public shareholders from being shareholders in the system operator as well as in the production and supply branch, if both are not grouped into one group. The challenges faced by system operators in the light of the transition to low-carbon energy management are growing. An independent party is an indispensable link. Because of the importance of the energy transition and the progress of the tenders for the lot decisions for wind at sea, we consider that decision-making is necessary at the moment. Where, as in the situation in Zeeland, attention has been paid to the specific aspects which may affect regional employment development, an appeal was made in October in the House of Representatives to the Minister who has now been converted into the appointment of the Balkenende Commission, which will come up with suggestions for strengthening the region's economic structure. We appreciate the momentum taken up by the department and the region and look forward to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u158	I would like to ask Mr Verheijen the following question. He is very pleased that the Balkenende Committee is looking at employment, but if I listen to him like that, he will first agree to kill 1,500 to 2,000 jobs and then say that it is so nice that this committee is here. Isn't it much wiser to keep these jobs intact and move forward with sustainability, which in turn creates jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u159	I am somewhat disturbed by the suggestions made this morning about killing and letting go. Ultimately, business decisions are made by management on the basis of the playing field, in which it positions itself. These decisions have been taken by different companies in different ways over the past decade. The playing field is again determined by the Chamber, the government, today in the context of the playing field that there is and that there was. Since 2011, the companies concerned have had to comply with the law. There is no discussion on this, given the ruling of the Supreme Court. The decisions that could have been taken by companies to develop a plan B or to explore other strategic possibilities were widely available. They will continue to be present, also within the framework of the suggestions that the Balkenende Committee is going to make. I assume that the Balkenende Commission is not going to focus specifically on one or two companies, but will look at the possibilities of taking advantage of much more new economic opportunities in the region, in conjunction with the offshore industry and service-related activities made possible by the law and wind farms at sea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u160	The Works Councils and the trade unions have indicated how employment is going to go down. That could have happened in 2011, and that is what is about to happen if we continue this split. It's up to you and us to stop that. I do not think that Mr Verheijen's argument is very fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u161	In previous situations, the Courts agreed on the manner in which the group ban would be imposed. What is happening here is not a'stick for it', but still trying to reverse a ten-year legislative process. If you wish to achieve this by means of a motion, I think that is very special in legal terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u162	The parties who signed this motion want to reverse it because we have seen that its implementation costs jobs. We have the opportunity here, especially if the Labour Party is involved, to maintain that employment. This is one of the most important goals we have in this house today. You certainly have the choice today to join the parties who signed the motion and save the jobs, instead of putting the horse behind the cart and sending Mr Balkenende on the road to see if some jobs can come back. Mrs Meijer was, of course, quite right. You have that opportunity and I ask you to take the opportunity to save those jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u163	I said earlier that the energy market is a high-dynamic market. It is too one-sided and too defensive to talk only about maintaining jobs. The energy agreement has made it clear that, from my point of view, ten thousand jobs can be created by the investment in the measures provided for in it. This offers new opportunities for companies wishing to establish themselves in that market. We estimate that the growth market in question offers far more opportunities than the fears expressed by some in their letters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u164	A very brief further question, Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u165	I'll be back at 15,000 jobs later. Of course you create jobs if you put 75 billion into the energy agreement, but this also attracts a lot of money from the economy and costs jobs again. In the meantime, we have created a playing field so that we know what will happen if we split up those companies. We know. Surely we cannot allow ourselves to create unemployment? It is 'unprecedented' that a parliament is going to vote for the unemployment of its own citizens. That can't be true!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u166	In creating employment expectations, I think it is equally shortsighted to think that, if your goal of removing the ban on groups were to succeed, the jobs for those who have come forward would automatically be assured. That is also a blow in the air that you cannot live up to at all. In this respect, we really need to limit ourselves to what the government can do: third party access and public infrastructure. We have two further questions for the Minister on these issues. We appreciate the Minister's willingness to assume his responsibility for the management of the Borssele nuclear power plant and the guarantees he has confirmed for the follow-up to the end of operation. I agree with previous questions that have been asked about this. In the answer we recognize the way in which the Minister intends to assume his responsibility and his role. 2016 will be a very important year for energy policy. In addition to the evaluation of the energy agreement and the implementation of the climate agreements, work is under way on arrangements that will further fill out the experimental space for local facilities and small customers. Flexible delivery rates, flexible transport rates, smart meters and the new EU directive on energy efficiency of buildings are, we expect, further operationalised. Can the Minister tell us how the various policy papers are presented in order? Can he also take into account the future structural vision of soil and subsurface, which will include statements on the exploitation of our fossil resources, including shale gas? In conjunction with this bill, the Minister also put forward a government coordination decision for the Dutch Coast Zuid-Holland lot decisions. Do we understand that the actual allocation of lots in this area, where they depend on locations within the twelve-mile zone, cannot be made available before the partial modification of the structural vision, which is related to the National Water Plan, has been initiated and completed at this point? At the moment we are still waiting for the justification of the cost-benefit study promised by the Minister in consultation with the coastal communities. We look forward with interest to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u167	Mr. Chairman. I'll end my contribution with that brutalized group ban. Let me start with the question of why this legislation is passing through here. All this is enshrined in the energy agreement, which has never been treated as such in this house. However, the legislation that follows it is, as it is now. The General Court has calculated that the energy agreement costs 73 billion if the cabinet wants to meet all its objectives. This 73 billion is mainly paid by SMEs and our households. If you saddle SMEs and households with 73 billion in charges, this will obviously lead to lower spending and less employment, which will cost prosperity. In my opinion, a further 8 billion in SDE subsidies was added to the National Energy Exploratory on the other side. Is that right? Do we have to add that to the 73 billion? Of course, the work results in Denmark, because that's where they build windmills. In the Netherlands, it doesn't produce a lot of work. A maintenance team for 430 megawatts in Lemmer consists of twenty people. If this is turned to 6,000 megawatts, what we want to achieve on land, that is 280 jobs, paid with EUR 15 billion in grant. These are just Melker orbits. After 15 years, they'll be gone, because then those mills will have to go back to the junkyard. Many studies show that a green grant job is at the expense of more ordinary jobs. If you consider that the parties who sign the energy agreement, so did the cabinet, did this without calculating in advance what that would cost, then perhaps that is where the statement lies. They had no idea. You should try this as an entrepreneur or as a private person: put your signature under a contract without knowing how much it costs and without having to arrange financial cover in advance. An entrepreneur ends with bankruptcy, a family at the food bank, but the cabinet simply emptys Henk and Ingrid's wallet. The minister writes in pieces about the split that he wants to represent a reliable government. That may not work as well if we sign a blank cheque. What are these windmills doing to destroy our country, perhaps also the coast, and are contributing a great deal of nuisance to our energy supply by 2020-2023? 10% of electricity needs and 2% of our energy needs. A lousy 2%! Congratulations, count out your loss! Why are we doing it? Let's not forget that question. We do it mainly because the IPCC says that the global warming is caused by the burning of fossil fuels. Yesterday in the Algemeen Dagblad there was an interview with Richard Tol, outgoing lead author and in the past important contributor to the IPCC. He said that sometimes the IPCC writes nonsense and puts a political message in the summary. It appears to be a panel that invites only scientists who publish in line with the IPCC. That runs counter to anything called science. It is not for nothing that all IPCC's predictions about global warming have so far failed. In the follow-up to the IPCC, there was a climate summit. This time not in Woodstock, but in Paris. Loud Kumbaya singing left the faith community Paris, whether or not in a private jet. It reverberated here a little while ago. Among them was Secretary of State Dijksma: without a binding agreement, but with the certainty that a new procession will be organised in about five years' time. The PVV asked Mrs Dijksma about climate policy, which at the time was still in another role.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u168	I hear Mr Dercksen saying every time what another person does wrong. Can he tell us how the PVV thinks we should tackle climate change?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u169	Just as Richard Tol told us yesterday in the Algemeen Dagblad, we do not see climate change as the biggest problem that threatens the Earth. Richard Tol, economist and climate scientist, said yesterday in the newspaper quite explicitly that the earth could have a few degrees more. That is not the biggest problem we have, especially if you relate it to the many billions that the climate summits cost over and over again. We can do much better and more useful things with that. I hope I have answered the question sufficiently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u170	Not at all. In doing so, Mr Dercksen has shown himself to be a denier of the climate problem. Soon he's the only one in the world. He acts as if the 195 countries have made completely absurd agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u171	Those countries are wise, because they sign and continue to build coal-fired power stations. Korea, Japan, India and China have already reported that they are continuing. There's gonna be a lot of people, 2.5 billion by 2050. They all want to eat, drink and heat. They need energy, and they can't. I was just telling you what windmills generate energy: that's nothing. It's not gonna work with windmills. People are looking for affordable energy. It comes from coal in many cases, although I'd rather use gas. Cheap power is the basis for prosperity throughout the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u172	I have not yet heard Mr Dercksen answer the question as to what should happen. He denies everything that everyone in the world now uses as facts. He says there's too much money being spent on it. I am not entirely clear about what he thinks that money should be spent on. Coal plants are not allowed to close, wind energy is not necessary and windmills are ugly. As a Groninger, I can say from experience that gas extraction also has its disadvantages. In short, Mr Dercksen has no solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u173	I tell Mr Pijlman that we do not see the problems that are being suggested about the climate and for which the whole community of faith is coming together. A lot of scientists feel the same way. They may not be on the NPO. After all, it is a counter-sound that one does not want to hear. A few years ago, President Obama said, "Science is settled, we do know it's our fault, and we're all gonna die." A petition was then signed by 31,500 scientists. I had actually saved this remark for the Minister, but now I am making it against Mr Pijlman. These 31,500 scientists told President Obama that science wasn't settled at all. IPCC forecasts have failed so far. That's not because I want to, but it's clear from the facts I'm following. If you add the ice quantity of the North and the South Pole together and make a graph, you can see that there is little change. Henk Hagoort won't tell you, but I'll look it up. Mr Pijlman increases the problems because he has a political agenda, but I'm just looking at what it costs us in terms of prosperity. We're not in on it. To Secretary of State Dijksma we asked questions about the Fifth Assessment Report of the IPCC. In that report, the climate sensitivity has also been adjusted downwards. Of course, that was not mentioned in the media, because that was not a good time. We asked why the IPCC suddenly didn't make a best estimate. The IPCC always did. The Secretary of State replied that the best estimate of global warming cannot be made on scientific grounds. However, this was done in all previous reports. They just didn't show the outcome. It didn't come out so well because the science was a little less settled than one would like. I wonder if people at the ministry realize that at all. I asked the Secretary of State twice about the impact of the new CO trading system on global temperature. After all, that's what we're all doing. However, that question was a little too complicated. I didn't get an answer. So you're saying that the Earth is warming up by burning fossil fuels and that you want to keep the temperature rise within an arbitrary 2 ̊C. However, you do not know the impact of the most effective and expensive measures you are using to prevent emissions. Where did I end up? However, I am not the worst and I was looking for articles that show how temperatures are going to rise and what consequences it will have for everyone to comply with the climate summit targets until 2030 and that will last another 70 years, until the year 2100. That's rather unlikely. I refer again to population growth. If everyone adheres to the climate summit commitments, the temperature will rise slightly less, by 0.17 ̊C. In the most positive case, the EU has contributed 0.05 ̊C to this. If I calculate the Dutch share, 5% of EU emissions, I will come up with an energy agreement of 73 billion to a lower increase in the temperature of less than 0.003 ̊C. This will cost many billions and, in my opinion, it will only be more if we stick to the climate summit objectives. They are, after all, even more important than the objectives of the energy agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u174	Frankly, I don't know where Mr Dercksen gets it. Apparently, there are some scientists in the world who only he knows. 99% of scientists simply agree that warming is a problem. I would like to ask Mr Dercksen another question. Isn't he worried sick? How can he say all this? Doesn't he think about his grandchildren and the kids in the rest of the world? What will happen if the PVV keeps denying, while 99% of the scientists say this is going to happen? Has Mr Dercksen ever heard of the precautionary principle? Is that something he also says we should think about if some measures should be taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u175	That's what I expected. The precautionary principle is an argument that has passed many times. If you take precautions to this extent and with these kinds of large amounts of precautionary measures, you can compare that with preventing you from spraining your ankle by dropping off your leg. In that affair, you have to see it. Probably Mrs. Vos didn't read the interview with Richard Tol in the Algemeen Dagblad. That man ran away from the IPCC because the panel no longer operates science, but politics. He doesn't lend himself to that. That man should be honored for that. I admit Henk Hagoort doesn't show it. RTL News doesn't either. Indeed I must search through other sources. I came to Mr Lomborg, a well-known Danish climate scientist. He calculated the variation in temperature based on the commitments made at the Paris Climate Summit. Mrs Vos also had a question about the 99%. That's not quite right, it's 97%. Before I answer that question, I would like to ask her a question again. What did Mrs. Vos do to investigate where that 97% came from?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u176	When I was still in the Lower House, I happened to be a member of a working group that looked closely at the IPCC. To be honest, what I am pleased with is that in this company it seems that sometimes it is acknowledged that things are not quite good, that the company learns and goes on. The evidence of this climate change club is that this is caused by man through the use of fossil fuels and that this is unfortunately a moving thing. The scientific basis for this has only become stronger and stronger in all these years. However, the time we have to reverse it has become shorter and shorter. I would remind Mr Dercksen that it is now clear that if we do nothing, we will go to a temperature increase of 4°C or 5°C. Then the consequences are incalculable. So I really do not know where Mr Dercksen gets what he says here about 0.1°C or 0.001°C.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u177	Those are the...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u178	In fact, Mr Dercksen says here: the whole world is crazy, except for the PVV and the few people he mentions. Is that what he's talking about? The whole world is crazy and they're the only ones who've seen the light?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u179	Mind if I interrupt? Mr Dercksen, you are now giving a very brief answer to this, because this question has already been asked by Mrs Vos. Then I want to end this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u180	I asked Mrs Vos whether she herself had properly examined where that 97% came from. In my opinion, the world is moving forward with people who think independently and research themselves, rather than with people who move around like a herd of sheep. That doesn't help the world much. I've been investigating where that 97% came from. By the way, more people have done that, but of course that Newsuur doesn't broadcast. The percentage is from a report by John Cook. He's been looking for a lot of publications on climate. However, he only sought selectively. He then appointed three categories. He did not consider the third category, because it did not fall within the subject he was looking for. There were two categories left. The first was "Explicit endorsement without quantification." That meant that it is indeed getting warmer and that it is coming from man, but that it is not determined how much that is. The second category he maintained was the category "Implicite endorsement." So that was implicit evidence, which didn't involve any quantification at all. He has thrown these investigations into a pile with his thesis that more than 50% of the warming comes from man. Then a scientist examined all the reports Cook used, and looked at how many reports actually state that the world is warming up and that man is responsible for more than 50% of that warming. That scientist came out at 1.6%. So if Mrs Vos hears the percentage of 97 on TV one more time, she should remember that I told her it was 1.6.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u181	Shall we leave this point of discussion at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u182	I brought it with me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u183	Yes, but proceed with your speech, Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u184	Mrs. Fox can read it. Many scientists quoted here have also said that this is not their conclusion. So I hope that 97% will at least go into the trash in this house. That was my last sentence about this. Oh, my God, where was I? Through written questions, we pointed out to the Minister the facts of the wind farms. In Ireland, people reluctantly admitted that not every kWh produced sustainably is actually sustainable. The mills must be built, maintained and demolished with fossil energy. There are also losses of integration and, in particular, standby losses of the gas and coal plants. However, the Minister still adheres to his fictional models and to the idea that wind energy is a sustainable source of energy. But I'm looking up scientists and I'm talking to them. I'm sorry about Mrs. Fox. I spoke with scientists who were members of the Energy Council, with a former scientific director of the KEMA, with the Foundation for Technical Science and with the Foundation for Fundamental Research of the Matter. If you don't believe me, please believe these people. They all sound the alarm, because the government refuses to follow facts and science policy. Because windmills do not save or barely save CO emissions. What is going on in this country that these scientists are ignored and science doesn't matter anymore? If the PVV proposes to monitor whether windmills at all lead to fewer emissions, the Minister does not want to measure it and does not want to know. All the other parties don't want to know either. What's going on here that people aren't interested in that? The exact science seems to have been excommunicated by the alpha scientists from this house. How the hell is that possible? If there is a parliamentary survey on subsidy flow in about five or ten years' time, I will take my rejected whistleblower motion, which has gone through the shredder here. A few weeks ago we had a welcome meeting with the Energy Agreement Committee, chaired by Mr Nijpels. He is also known to some for his predictions of the late 1980s that 80% of our forests would disappear due to acid rain. He was also a former member of the Supervisory Board of the Egroup, which was so green, sustainable and, above all, so out of control and bankrupt. You'd say this isn't exactly the best resume to be invited to this job, but that's how they are. At that meeting I asked the members of the Committee on Security and Cooperation how many coal plants they were going to close down. They were going to close five, and they were very proud of it. Then I asked how this related to the 363 coal plants that China is going to build until 2030. And how did that relate to India's emissions, which will triple until 2030? Russia emits 38% more until 2030. And so on, while this cabinet is going to study through the modified Tax Plan whether the last few, brand new coal power stations should be closed down. We go back behind the dikes; the rest of the world doesn't exist. We're going down slowly to the bill. The law STROOM ratifys TenneT as a party to build the network at sea. As I said in the debate on wind at sea, TenneT is also risking this complicated job. So these risks lie with the taxpayer, because it is a state-owned company. I was just talking to Mr. Ester about it. Why does the Minister choose this designation, when he believes that with a tender the best price can be achieved for the wind farms at sea? Why is there no tender for the network? I have just heard sounds that other companies on other networks would have been cheaper than TenneT. As far as it was not quite clear: the PVV is not in favour of wind energy. The marginal yield of electricity and the bin subsidy that goes to these square wheels are part of the problem. The other part consists of nuisance: noise, low frequency noise, spoiled views and a falling housing value. There is also a loss of employment in coastal communities. People are complaining about insomnia. They have to call in sick for work if they haven't been able to sleep another night. Eneco's trying to buy these people off. I don't know if Eneco's people are here, but I say shame on you, because you can't do this with taxpayers' money. Because this experiment with windmills leads to major problems, the PVV is concerned about the fact that this law makes even more experimenting possible. This experiment may also take place in a group. The Minister must have thought: where is it written that I should be consistent? To what extent can the Minister guarantee that the new experiment will not again lead to nuisance and higher costs for the inhabitants of the experimental space? Then I'll get to the group ban. Like other parties, the PVV Group has been surprised by the speed with which the ACM was sent as a sort of bailiff to Eneco and DELTA to press for division, after the law has been passed in the Lower House. Finally, the cabinet knows that the Smaling amendment had broad support in the House of Representatives. That support was even so broad that it could possibly have a majority in this house. We therefore consider this action inappropriate and premature. The PVV has always been against split-up. Other parties have ignored these warnings of common sense. Let's go back to the origins of this part of the law. It was initiated in 2006 by former Minister Brinkhorst.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u185	I'm just trying to figure out if you were in the Chamber at the time, but did that result in a vote against the division law in 2007?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u186	As long as we're there, we were against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u187	In 2007 the PVV was not in the Upper House, but in the Lower House. However, we are now going into all kinds of details. I give Mr Dercksen the opportunity to finish his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u188	The PVV has always been against split. The facts why this has been a very sensible position all these years are on the table. Let's get back to the genesis. In 2006, the law was initiated by former Minister Brinkhorst. As a good D66, he wanted to anticipate possible EU rules on the assumption that all those other countries in the EU would have the same European idea and European ideals as D66. But unfortunately, that's a misconception. All these other countries, or at least a lot of them, are in the EU for their own gain, fighting for the interests of their country and their own inhabitants. We should do the same here. Mr Brinkhorst said that he would demand that foreign buyers of energy companies also continue to invest in the Netherlands. But in 2006 Elsevier wrote that this would be very unlikely. And so it was. The same Elsevier wrote in 2006 that investment decisions would be taken in Paris or Frankfurt or Madrid, for example. And that's what happened. While D66, Minister Brinkhorst, pushed through the split, the French government had Gaz de France taken over by SUEZ to keep the Italian Enel out of the door. The Spanish government did everything it could to prevent the takeover of Endesa by the German E.ON. The German Minister for Economic Affairs even called the proposed division of ownership unconstitutional. Other countries were all just fighting for their own good. She does. And again, we are the crazy stallion of Europe. That has nothing to do with the name of this minister. In the run-up to this debate, the Minister used great words and put pressure on the parties that are very enthusiastic about the flow of subsidies, subsidies and energy. The energy agreement would be delayed if a majority in this Chamber wanted to get rid of the group ban. Well, the novelle of the Tax Plan was here with returning mail. The networks would not have been sufficiently protected, as colleagues have just explained in detail that this is wrong, and division would mean more competition and lower prices. But there is plenty of competition on the networks. I mentioned Eneco Stedin's figures in an interrupting debate. There is a relatively higher degree of change than in other networks. If the Minister really wants lower prices on the energy market, he should not set up windmills or subsidise polluting biomass, where a harvested forest from America or Africa is supposed to be set up sustainably in biomass plants that emit more CO than gas plants and even, according to some calculations, more than coal plants. But yes, we call it green and we don't think anymore. There were gonna be mega-claims. That looks like all the time on this file. That's what law firms have written up expensive legal opinions about, which disprove this. Eneco and DELTA could also come up with a claim. They have already put 1.3 billion on that, I understand, in their appeal to the European Convention on Human Rights. In 2005 it was Minister Ruding who warned against megaclaims from American investors if the split would continue. In short, threatening with claims in this file is of all times. The Minister also uses the argument that supervision of companies is complicated, but would companies abroad really all be much simpler structured or do they have smarter supervisors? That seems very unlikely to me. Is the PVV happy with all the policy decisions Eneco and DELTA have taken or will take? No, definitely not. As I said, people are complaining about the misery of Eneco windmills. I was talking about it earlier. It would therefore be a good thing for the shareholders of these companies to monitor this much more closely. But, Mr President, we were elected by the Dutch, also by the employees of Eneco and DELTA. Those are the interests that we must defend. That is why I have been elected to stand up for the interests of 1,800 families who fear their jobs and their incomes, people who, if they do not find work after two years of WW, have to eat their homes and savings and get into assistance. Those are the new rules of this cabinet, supported by destructive opposition parties who are now in a position to change their composition. Why the hell? Why would anyone want a law that makes people unemployed? Before the elections it is work, work, work, but after the elections it turns out that work is abroad at the non-divided companies. The Minister comes with a committee to boost employment in Zeeland. First legislation that makes people unemployed, then a committee. The terms "taskforce" and "job plan" may have hit a bit of sleet, so perhaps that's why a committee. And this while the minister's party, the VVD, put Minister Asscher on the rack a few weeks ago because all those job plans didn't work, they didn't work and they won't work. Those job plans only work for former politicians who are allowed to play the task force for a while. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The PVV has co-signed a motion from the CDA and the SP requesting the cabinet to put an end to the group ban. I hope that, in the first term, the Minister will give full clarity about how he is in this competition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u189	Madam President. My group welcomes the establishment of the Balkenende Committee, the Committee on Economic Structures and Employment in Zeeland, which was recently announced. The strengthening of structures and the promotion of employment in the province of Zeeland are extremely important for the future of the province, but especially for the Zeeland Islands themselves. I am thinking in particular of the further strengthening of tourism, for example, which has great potential. On 21 December 1973 yesterday exactly 42 years ago I was sworn in as Secretary of State for Finance. The next day I went with our very young family to Zeeland to spend the Christmas holidays there. We have been happy to continue to come back there until today and will continue to do so, with somewhat larger offspring. However, it is not only about further development of employment, but also about maintaining existing employment in the province for the people, for the Zeeuws. In dealing with the draft law that we are discussing today, the issue of maintaining existing employment is a prominent one, now that the division of companies DELTA and Eneco is under discussion. And you should. Over the past few weeks, we have experienced how this topic lives with the people involved in the companies: many emails from individuals who have expressed their concerns about their future and those of their families, often directly from the heart, so close to Christmas. It concerns the future of these two companies, each with their own opportunities and diversification. At DELTA, the future of the company is at stake. After the split, there seems to be no prospect of continuity, Mr Flierman remarked earlier. At Eneco, it is especially important to maintain the strong position in the field of sustainability and to further realise the ambitions with large investments in sustainable development. We cannot and must not close our eyes to the consequences of the closed split. The future of this file has a long past. In response to questions from the D66 Group, the Minister outlined the long history in the reply. The Minister replied that there was no question of continuing the division. The group ban has been in force since 1 July 2008 and, according to the Minister, remains in force with this proposal. D66 referred to the adopted Doek/Sylvester motion of 21 November 2006, which called for the group ban not to enter into force unless it was clear that full ownership would be split in the EU or that public and independent network management would be compromised. On 7 June 2007, the then Minister informed the Chamber of the decision to bring the ban into force on 1 July 2008. In the introduction to the reply, the Minister again outlined the background to the group ban. The 5OPLUS Group agrees with the many questions raised by previous speakers on the prohibition of groups. In particular, the 5OPLUS Group has one pressing question: why put the future of DELTA and Eneco at risk if we do not believe there is an urgent reason for this at the moment? Can the Minister answer this simple question? Will the Minister reconsider his position and promise a new one? Then the motion tabled by the SP and supported by us is superfluous, although it does offer a good alternative to a novelle. Yesterday, a novella was discussed in this Chamber, which was presented on 9 December when the Tax Plan was discussed. That novelle will be put to the vote today, in two weeks' time; it will be in line with the 2016 Tax Plan, which will also be put to the vote today. This novelle is so crucial that the 2016 Tax Plan would be insane tonight if it were not adopted. I suggest to the Minister that the cabinet at the novelle for the Tax Plan has acted according to the adage "where there is a will, there is a way." Does that also apply today in this file? The Minister could make the need a virtue now that a majority in the Senate is asking him not to allow the split to enter into force. Only without split does DELTA "luctor et emergo" and Eneco have a stronger sustainable future. Don't fight windmills when it comes to the split. I await the Minister's answers with the colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u190	Madam President. I voted in favour of the division law in 2007 in the belief that it would keep the networks public, that production and supply could be privatised and that that would be good. That's how it happened. Nuon and Essent were sold for a very good price and so their then owners, municipalities and provinces, a freely available capital that is still widely exploited in many places. The two little ones, DELTA and Eneco, have so far come out of the dance but the now suddenly very current threat with splitup.The ACM goes right behind it.In any case doesn't give the owners any applause. No one has the illusion that the production and supply parts released from their networks are still lucrative to sell. On the contrary, it is quite common to fear that they will be taken directly into foreign hands and that the remaining jobs will be lost to a large extent. And also that this puts an end to the efforts of these companies in particular for sustainable, often small-scale energy generation. So the situation has changed in recent years. No one thinks that this split really should be Europe's. Almost no one thinks that this split will improve the functioning of the energy market in the Netherlands and that this will therefore benefit consumers. The split already legally established in the existing legislation is now being offered in the new Electricity and Gas Act with the most necessary technical and administrative arrangements for system operators in general and for the transmission networks at sea to the large-scale wind farms there. This puts a great deal of pressure on this new decision, because it is explicitly a new decision. We are now deciding on this law and, therefore, on the inclusion of this article. Of course, I do not have to dwell on this for long, because many speakers have already done so for me. So I'm gonna take a quick turn. This law must of course be adopted so that the preparation for the award of wind farms can continue. The Minister, of course, insists that this is not a question of division at all, because the decision has already been taken in 2007. He then denies the wide-ranging sentiment that a new decision is actually being taken, which can also be abandoned in this context. Waiving that decision does not appear to be a procedural problem because of Art. 4.6 paragraph 6, or at least, as requested in our motion, to allow it to enter into force only under specific conditions relating to European legislation. I am aware that the discussion is seen as undesirable and as a distraction from the main issues by those who, rightly, have every interest in ensuring that the preparation of wind farms at sea can continue undisturbed. I am also aware that there are some new players in the Dutch energy market who do not have networks at home or abroad and who consider the level playing field to be better guaranteed if the group ban is implemented fully and thus also at holding level. But to the first, I would like to say that if the Minister is a little reasonable in this discussion, then there is no problem. And against the second group, perhaps the strongest argument is that it doesn't help much if DELTA and Eneco, like Nuon and Essent, end up in an international group with networks abroad. The level playing field, as they would like, is simply unattainable by practice in Europe. There are only three questions left for me in this respect that the Minister can answer. Should the split article not enter into force for the time being, how will the position of the grid operators Alliander and Enexis become? Does that change anything? My second question concerns the position of DELTA's production and supply business, which is extremely weak. The sale of other business lines is necessary in order to keep the debt position somewhat in order. The production sector is not profitable, mainly because of competition from coal-fired power stations and in this context also because of the abolition of the coal tax. How does the Minister see the future of this company when it has to be split up? I ask this also in relation to the position of the nuclear power station. My third question is the same as the question that Mrs Vos has asked quite intrusively earlier. Why does the Minister now consider division to be an advantage? Why would this advantage be greater than the rather immediate disadvantages? Finally, I would like to say to the Minister that I welcome the speed with which he is now working to make up for the delay in the large-scale use of wind energy. I am very happy to say this after the story we have heard from Mr Dercksen. But I also hope that he is prepared to turn halfway rather than go astray. This proverb has been used several times this morning. In any case, our joint error has meant that we have not sufficiently realised what European directives would oblige us to do and have not provided enough information on how the rest of Europe would deal with it. I'd like to wait and see how the Minister will make his position clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-22-eerstekamer-3.u191	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I shall suspend the debate and suspend the sitting for a single minute in anticipation of the Minister and the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport.
