ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u1	A word of welcome to the Secretary of State. It's good to have you back. The next item is the debate on the news that 40% of the municipalities do not or do not think they can afford to pay for care for the elderly and the debate on the announcement that general practitioners are alarming about care for the elderly. In fact, these are two debates in one. There are eight speakers from the Chamber. Mrs Gerbrands of the Group of the Party of Freedom is the first to speak. Like everyone else, she has a five-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. A year ago, March 2014, general practitioners sounded an alarm about the care of the elderly. Like the PVV, they were deeply concerned about elderly people who had to stay at home but could not do so. Three quarters of the general practitioners indicated at that time that this was a problem and they saw this problem getting worse only because of the government policy to restrict access to nursing homes. There was and is fear that vulnerable elderly people will be isolated, neglected, eat and drink even less, and go backward mentally and physically quickly. The latter means they're gonna wander the streets confused or leave that pan on the fire for once. Newspaper reports confirm this fear; it is already reality. Moreover, the concerns are not limited to the elderly. General practitioners stress that caregivers in particular have to deal with the problems and that they have to call on the general practitioner because of the overload. Not only the general practitioners expressed their concerns, but also the municipalities expressed their concerns at the same time last year. 40% proved unable or difficult to organise care for the sick elderly and disabled with the available budget. Unfortunately, these concerns prove to be justified. The new care tasks will lead to billions of shortages. Under unchanged policies, municipalities will lack nearly 5 billion euros in 2018. This predicts the Center for Economic Research of the Lower Governments. To the extent of disaster, municipalities also received a discount on the budget for the Wmo, because about 14,000 people have received a re-indication for the Long-Term Care Act. That is a good message in itself, but municipalities have often already contracted care for this group. They may not be able to comply with their volume agreements now that these clients are covered by the Wlz. Municipalities will therefore be forced to make further savings on the new care tasks. What's missing from this story now? Exactly, the client. We are bogged down in debates about money and discounts rather than about the quality of care. According to the explanatory statement, the Wmo aims to promote the provision of coherent care and support in neighbourhoods, neighbourhoods and villages and to enable good support for people in their own living environment. The quality experienced by people is, in the government's opinion, decisive for the quality of social support. The people who have lost their domestic help do not experience this quality. The carers who see the daily consumption for those who care are reduced or even disappear do not experience that quality. People who are lonely or anxious because there is no place for them in the nursing home, do not experience that quality. The government's conclusion must therefore be that the quality of social support is inadequate. I give another quote, from the same law: the well-being of people must be central. The government expects municipalities to further develop quality policies in consultation with client organisations and providers in the coming years and to make proposals for quality standards for social support. In what way is the well-being of the older person who is just too good for an institution and just too bad to stay at home central? What kind of customization does the municipality offer? Care would be better: closer to the people. However, in the opinion of the PVV, the care is farther away than ever before.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u3	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u4	Mr. Van 't Wout, you're at the interrupting microphone. That suggests that you'd like to interrupt someone or otherwise. You have a question before Mrs. Bruins Slot has said anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u5	That's right. I wonder where the applicant for this debate is, Mrs Keijzer. I am pleased to discuss this with Mrs Bruins Slot, but Mrs Keijzer was very motivated to have this debate a year ago and today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u6	You will probably ask Mrs Bruins Slot that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u7	That's right. Mrs Keijzer has obligations outside this house. This debate is about general practitioners and care for the elderly. Luckily, I'm a spokesperson for general practitioners. I am very happy to hear that Mr Van 't Wout is looking forward to debating with me. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u8	That is indeed extremely pleasurable. Doesn't Mrs. Bruins Slot think this is a little crazy? I understand that Mrs Keijzer is on a television programme tonight. Doesn't Mrs Bruins Slot think it's a little weird if you insist on holding a debate a year later and say that we really have to do it today, that you then choose to appear on television instead of having the debate here yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u9	The point is that the CDA has requested the debate. It often happens that spokesmen are exchanged when a debate is finally held. I believe that tomorrow there will also be a debate which Mr Van Gerven has requested, but which will be held by Mrs Leijten. It's not that weird. It is the CDA who requested the debate. The difference between theory and practice is as follows. The theory is that everyone gets a kitchen table call from the municipality. In practice, the first people are in court to ask for domestic help, or because there has been no investigation into their personal circumstances. That's all still to be done. The CDA is sorry that people have to go to court. You're only gonna be needy. That is precisely why the quality of the kitchen table conversation with the municipality is so important. It is about customization, and about the fact that the personal characteristics and circumstances are being looked at. Many people still experience the kitchen table conversations as a one-sided communication. Others are still waiting for it. That can't be what the Secretary of State meant by this law, can it? My question is how the Secretary of State intends to help at the front of the process, so that municipalities actually comply with the law and have a really good conversation with people about their care and support needs. I have to say that the step to the judge feels like a loss to all of us. The law provides for municipalities to point out to their residents the possibility of customer support. You can ask for help. You don't have to do it alone. The CDA thinks that's very important. My question to the Secretary of State is whether municipalities also point out to their residents the possibility of independent customer support, and whether it is also available. Is this help coming off the ground? From 1 January onwards, in practice, general practitioners have received much more vulnerable elderly people. Actually, the GP has become a kind of sheep with five legs these days. The general practitioner has to step in everywhere where people no longer live in an institution. Last year, when we asked for this debate, the general practitioners called the alarm clock. The good news is that some of last year's bottlenecks have been resolved in the meantime. So steps have been taken. Unfortunately, one of the greatest concerns has not been taken away. This concerns the very vulnerable elderly who stay at home but cannot do so. Of course, staying home can only be achieved if medically possible. The CDA is in favour not only of the CIZ looking at efficiency, but also of the CIZ asking GPs if they can live at home any longer. General practitioners are on top of it and are also responsible for the quality of medical care at home. How does the Secretary of State feel about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u10	This sounds like music to me. I don't mean the fact that older people are rotting at home. How does Mrs Bruins Slot reconcile this story with the fact that her party itself is responsible for restricting access to the institutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u11	It is very important that people want to live longer at home. Indeed, we have said that people with certain problems, namely the so-called 'zzp's 1 to 3, can better stay at home. There's just a limit to the moment you have to decide that it can't go on. How, what and when must be clear. You can let the CIZ determine it remotely, but you have a general practitioner who's on top of it. Let's give him a bigger role in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u12	I totally agree with that, but then the funding remains for those lowerzzp's. That's the group we're talking about here. Atzzp 3 everyone always pretends to be those cheerful elderly people of 84 who go bowling twice a week. Atzzp 3, you can't do much more. That's the category we're talking about right now. I hear the CDA say that the role of the general practitioner should be greater and that he should be given a voice in the indication. I welcome that. I therefore hope that the CDA will support our requests to the Secretary of State to deal more broadly with this when the time comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u13	Personal circumstances must always be guiding and decisive. I agree with Mrs Gerbrands. However, the PVV and the CDA look at the question of how long people can stay at home. But my impression is that Mrs Gerbrands and I can find each other when she says that the general practitioner should have a greater role in that. All municipalities and health insurance companies have their own protocols and their own healthcare allocation. The CIZ doesn't have a visual on that. Then how can you determine nationally that the border for living at home for the elderly is not exactly reached? How is that going to happen in practice? The CDA is also concerned about people with dementia who live longer at home and their carers. Dementia will be the main cause of death in 2030. Now is the time to make dementia top priority in care. The case manager dementia is an indispensable link for people with dementia who live longer at home and their caregiver. It's supposed to make sure they can keep it up. Only, we get reports from Alzheimer's Netherlands that more and more dementia patients need to miss their trusted case manager and that more and more case managers are losing their jobs. We must be very careful not to throw away the knowledge and skills of case managers in the changes that are taking place in healthcare. Does the Secretary of State recognise the signal that many people are losing their trusted case manager and that some people are losing their jobs? If he recognizes that signal, what action can he take to ensure that this important link in care stays intact at home?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u14	Mr. Chairman. They seemed to be such fine words from the Secretary of State: we must fight for the affordability of care. But wouldn't it be much better for us to fight for all those people who are losing their care because of this policy? Wouldn't it be much better for us to fight for all those home-care workers who get a one-way job thanks to this cabinet? What are fine words about affordability worth when it's about the back of vulnerable people who can't defend themselves and who have no income to settle it in another way? Municipalities can no longer pay for care because the cabinet cuts and cancels the budget for home care. It is not surprising that municipalities stand their backs against the wall and have no option other than to significantly reduce or stop the home care of elderly people and people with disabilities. There's only one person responsible for that. It's right there, in box K. That's the Secretary of State of the Labour Party. Then it is completely tacky for the cabinet to trick the people with nice talk. How about a press release with a headline "Care for at least 19,000 people"? It gives me a bitter taste in my mouth. Barely saved a job. The so-called household aid allowance should be the saving of these jobs. Turns out it's already a fiasco. Over 9,000 jobs have been lost. Wouldn't it be much better if the household aid allowance could also be used to protect jobs that are on the way, without people having to pay €10 per hour for their own contribution? Is the Secretary of State prepared to take care of this? We are in the first phase of the transfer of tasks to the municipalities. We see thousands of people losing their care, home-care workers being threatened with dismissal or wage dumping, home-care organizations going bankrupt and commercial cleaning companies around the corner to take over work at dumping prices. One case after the other is gonna follow. Thousands of complaints come in to municipalities. What does the Secretary of State need to trigger an emergency scenario? As far as the SP Group is concerned, this contingency scenario should consist of good basic rates, a ban on wage dumping, the ear tag of money and the restoration of the right to care. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. Not only municipalities and people who lose their care are the alarm clock, but also specialists in the care of the elderly and general practitioners. 81% of general practitioners expect more isolation among older people as a result of living longer at home. 97% of general practitioners expect carers to be burdened more heavily. 86% of the elderly specialists indicate that the changes in care do not give older people better care. 97% of the elderly specialists also indicate that family doctors together with carers are not at all able to help vulnerable people at all. Should we put this aside because it's last year's investigation, or does the Secretary of State take it seriously? I don't think it's so crazy that these signals are there right now. You cut 1.2 billion on the Wmo; then there will be casualties. Does the Secretary of State take the signals seriously? In a response he sent, he says: the district nurse will solve everything, which will relieve the general practitioner and the caregiver. But there's hardly any money for it. The elderly care specialists say that the district teams in 93% of the situations are not prepared at all for their tasks. Today, a GP told me he was approached by a district nurse. He asked if someone who swallows 13 pills a day and needs help three times a day with lung medication with less medicine. The health office had asked the neighborhood nurse if it could be phased out. Last week, I spoke to another GP. He told me that he now has to fill in two A4s when applying for wound dressing because the health insurance company doesn't trust the GP to signal properly. General practitioners have been asked to invest in care for the elderly, but at the same time they are at odds because health insurers are too miserable to conclude good contracts in whole areas of the Netherlands. This isn't gonna do us any good, is it? Last year the National General Medical Association came up with the alarming figures. There has been no response to the substance. In November 2013 we did a sample among general practitioners, with the same figures. The Secretary of State didn't think it was important to go into that. Is he willing to take stock now of the damage caused by what the GPs signal and to take it with them in his transition monitor or whatever it's called? How many signals does the Secretary of State need to trigger an emergency scenario? And then the affordability of care; is that the most important thing for this Secretary of State? My question is: at what price? How many people in neglect and how many people in loneliness is his target for next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u15	Mr. Chairman. We are now short of two hands to count how many times we have talked about the new Social Support Act and all its possible consequences. As long as it is necessary, we will continue to do so, because as many as 40% of the municipalities saw the adequacy of the WMO budget as bleak ten months ago. Recent research by COELO, an authoritative research agency at the University of Groningen, does not reassure us. According to COELO, the Dutch municipalities will face a total deficit of 4.8 billion euros in 2018 under unchanged policies. In order to achieve the budget, the municipalities will have to make substantial savings in the coming years. In municipalities where many elderly and less self-employed people live, the deficit will be large, so is calculated. Municipal expenditure will rise to 14% while revenue will increase by only 9%. COELO believes that municipalities have no option other than to further reduce the available facilities. Moreover, according to the research, citizens reject widely differences between municipal services in the social domain. We're talking about a renowned research firm. 50PLUS therefore wants to know from the Secretary of State what he thinks of this report. In particular, I would like a clear explanation of how the quality and availability of facilities can be maintained at a sufficient level. I would also like to know how the position of the weaker municipalities is protected and how the Secretary of State assesses the rejection by citizens. The consequences are already visible. Once again, I refer to domestic aid, the Dantumadiel case is still very much in our minds. Recently we received the message that in the city of Utrecht more than 3,600 people have been informed by telephone that the number of hours of domestic help was reduced. Only people with more than four hours of help per week received a kitchen table call. I am not surprised that 600 objections followed. Additional lawyers were then hired to deal with them. No money for domestic aid, but for legal support from the municipality. How the hell is that to explain to the citizen? Does the Secretary of State know what the hourly rate of a household employee is and what the hourly rate of a lawyer is? Does the Secretary of State agree with us that it is against the law to deal with kitchen tables in this way? Does he, like 50PLUS, see any connection with the substantial discounts imposed? Worried enough, we are getting signals that this is happening in more municipalities. That while this form of support makes an important contribution to living independently at home. In March, the National Family Doctors Association (LHV) expressed another great fear of 50PLUS about the adequacy of care for elderly people living at home. There are many good developments to be seen, but there are still concerns. Preferably three quarters of the surveyed doctors saw last year that there is a gap, because the available places in nursing homes are being reduced and there is also insufficient care available in the neighbourhood due to the limited budget of municipalities, a shortage of district nurses and the threatening overload of general practitioners. The LHV has indicated that it is concerned about vulnerable elderly people who have to stay at home for longer, but who cannot do so without the right conditions. Geriaters report this, too. For example, it is very important that the healthcare office determines, in consultation with the general practitioner, whether it is also justified on medical grounds that people with an Wlz indication receive their care at home. It is not just efficiency that needs to be looked at. What possibilities does the Secretary of State see to contribute to this. Union KBO highlights another issue, namely that in the negotiations of general practitioners with health insurance companies the multidisciplinary cooperation segment is under snowed. This is precisely where the elderly who have to live longer at home can benefit greatly from it, also from the point of view of the necessary prevention. Does the Secretary of State recognize this signal? Does he agree with 50PLUS that good primary care is one of the conditions for older people with a need for care to stay at home for longer? What opportunities does he see to encourage the contracting of care to the elderly? In this context, what does he think of the suggestion of EU CFO to speed up the introduction of care programmes for vulnerable elderly people? Is the Secretary of State prepared to draw up a plan of action for this purpose?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u16	Mr. Chairman. There are currently about 2.6 million elderly people. That number continues to rise to 4.8 million in 2040. Fortunately, many older people are vital and in the midst of our society. But there comes a time when older people need care and support. It's okay if at such a time there's a loving environment to catch people. It's also good if there's a government that jumps in when people don't have anyone to fall back on or when heavier care is needed. Older people are of value to our society and deserve our full support and attention when necessary. The first evaluations on decentralisation will be sent to the Chamber in April. Can the Secretary of State say anything about that? What picture has he so far of how municipalities finance their new tasks? There is a lot to do about the kitchen table conversations at the moment. More than 600 complaints about the indication for household care have been received in the municipality of Utrecht alone. This is a sign on the wall for my party. Apparently, something's going wrong with the indications. I also receive many personal stories from people about this. We had the debate together in connection with the judicial ruling on the situation in Dantumadeel. The Secretary of State also made firm statements. What has the Secretary of State done since then? And what image does he have of the kitchen table conversations? Is that improved? In the debate I have just mentioned, we also discussed the issue of case managers' dementia. The Secretary of State indicated that administrative agreements have been made with the health insurers to maintain the existing chains. He promised that he would take stock before 1 January and inform us about it. How'd the balance go? I have heard from the Secretary of State that he intended to send a special letter to the Chamber on dementia care. That letter isn't here yet. When can we expect that letter? Too often municipalities hear from health insurers that they have to solve it. I find this transfer of responsibilities very undesirable. For example, it concerns personal care and short-term recording. For the elderly it is very important that a short-term intake remains possible, as well as rehabilitation in a care environment. Conversely, municipalities must act adequately when an older person comes home from a structured environment. The municipality can't say that in a few weeks someone will come by to see what the older one needs. This is the third time I have mentioned this in the debate with the Secretary of State. Where is the cooperation between health insurers and the municipalities? This cooperation has been incorporated into the law by an amendment tabled by my group, among other things. We would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. I ask the Secretary of State to deal with the adjustment of the objective distribution model. When does he expect to have the new model ready? Municipalities want to anticipate this in their multiannual budget, but they don't know what they're up to now. It is the general practitioners who find that the elderly stay at home longer and longer. Others have already asked for this, but I also ask the question: does the Secretary of State agree with me that the GP should also be consulted when considering whether it is possible on medical grounds for someone to stay at home? Generalist general practitioners lack the knowledge of specialists in old age medicine. General practitioners can consult a specialist in elderly medicine. My group wonders whether this is enough. The number of patients per general practitioner is increasing. I understand that the average practice gets about 25 patients with severe care questions. Care for the elderly in small-scale housing is also the responsibility of the general practitioner. Do doctors experience extra pressure because of this? Can general practitioners provide adequate care? The Christian Union asks the Secretary of State to examine this quickly, because it is precisely this year that the consequences of decentralisation for general practitioners will become clearer. When does the monitor start? I end with the heart cry of a general practitioner: people in the care of people; you get to know people; you grow with them; therefore we have fun in our profession; we want time for people and not for all the others. My group is concerned about everything else. We will certainly have another debate on this, starting tomorrow evening. My group believes it is very important that general practitioners have the opportunity to be doctors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u17	Mr. Chairman. We are debating two dated reports. The first is about municipalities that think they can't afford care for the elderly. The second is about general practitioners who raise the alarm about the general practitioner's care. I want to focus on the latter. The PvdA sees the first line as central to the Dutch care. That first line is unique and we can be proud of it. Yesterday we scored the first place in the research of Health Consumer Powerhouse. This is certainly worth a compliment to the sector. However, it does not mean that we can sit back. Right now, the PvdA wants to strengthen care for our elderly and chronically ill close by. I'm just thinking about why care is so important. Of course, this has been discussed many times here. For decades, despite the ageing population, we have seen a relative decline in the number of elderly people in nursing homes. People want to stay at home for longer, and they can do so, because of a well-organized first line. However, we can see that it can be improved in some areas. The connection of the second line to the first line can be much better. The example is classic. General practitioners send patients to the hospital and then it's a black box. All kinds of follow-up studies are being carried out, of which the usefulness and necessity are sometimes debatable. The Labour Party believes that the connection of the second line to the first line and, above all, the possibilities for consultation in it can be much better. Fortunately, we are seeing more and more initiatives there. For example, a specialist is brought to the older rather than the older in a taxi to the policy. As far as we are concerned, that is the right direction. It is a welcome development that can also be carried out along the Wlz line. I also mention patients and general practitioners who consult a specialist and a general practitioner practice at no risk close to home, which improves accessibility. The opportunities offered by prevention for care close by are far from exhausted for the Labour Party. I still hear almost weekly from general practitioners who do not stop filling out a survey, but also from all 75-plussers in their practice and screen them for vulnerability, and then keep following these people closely, and they also turn on the first line of the municipality. I think that is a good development. The Secretary of State is already doing a lot in the municipal field, but could he further support and encourage the development of such initiatives for cooperation between general practitioners and municipalities? The Labour Party believes that people who want to live longer at home should feel surrounded by good personal care. That is why the groups of the VVD and the Labour Party have called for the attention of general practitioners and district nurses in the budget treatment, but also for the care of POH parents. We have tabled a motion on this. In what way is the Secretary of State working with the Minister? We, too, get signals from Alzheimer's Netherlands that case management in dementia is becoming less and people are sometimes fired. Does the Secretary of State have any idea whether a substitution is being made here by district nurses with, for example, expertise in dementia? Then people would not be deprived of care, but take over another professional. That doesn't necessarily have to be bad. General practitioners are allowed to grow. This may not be entirely in the area of general practitioners, but I am getting signals that general practitioners' practices may only grow 1.5% instead of 2.5%. We agreed on 2.5% macro. Did the Secretary of State get any of these signals? Doesn't this mean that at the end of the ride we cut off general practitioners very much? So we're gonna be left with money later? Finally. Churches that worry don't have to do it alone. They know themselves supported by a strong first line and by general practitioners, who are becoming increasingly enterprising in providing versatile care. Family doctors do not have to do it alone either, because they know themselves supported by neighbourhood nurses who know the neighborhood, can proactively visit and, together with social neighbourhood teams, can deal with unification. And so the circle is complete. Municipally funded support and good medical and nursing care go hand in hand for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u18	The Labour Party stands for labor. Mrs Wolbert has not mentioned municipalities that are in financial difficulties, but I can tell her that more than 9,000 people have already been fired because the municipalities cannot pay for the care. What does the Labour Party think of a good target for job losses? 20,000? 50,000? What's Mrs. Wolbert thinking about? What would she be proud of?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u19	It is a misunderstanding that the Labour Party could be proud of firing people. We are not a party that can be proud of that. I don't want to be proud of that either, so my answer is zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u20	It is a pity that the Labour Party does not say a word in this debate, which deals with problems encountered by municipalities in financing support for which Mrs Wolbert has such a warm heart. I would like to remind Mrs Wolbert that it is the home care workers or people on the day-use who help the people. They are faced with dismissal and with wage dumping. We may have a neighbourhood nurse or a general practitioner, but if they come into a contaminated house, they will find it difficult to carry out their medical duties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u21	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u22	My question to the Labour Party is: when is the measure full of redundancies, bankruptcies or municipalities ringing the bell? Or does she prefer not to talk about it and look away from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u23	We are holding this debate on a dated signal, a signal from a year ago. In that year, a lot happened for municipalities. Agreements have been revised and made on the day-to-day use. The Association of Dutch Municipalities is also very satisfied with this. Extra money has gone to the allowance for household aid expenses. There are many municipalities that have taken all kinds of other initiatives in the loss of the Wmo. So I am fighting the image that Mrs Leijten puts here. I do not think it is fruitful to have a debate on a situation a year ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u24	The Labour Party asked the Secretary of State if part of the case management dementia is now dropped because it is taken over by the district nurse. How does Mrs Wolbert judge that if she did?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u25	So I'm not sure that's the case. That's why I'd like to know from the Secretary of State if he's getting those signals and if he thinks he would. I find that difficult. I myself am the one who provided those case managers with dementia by asking the then Secretary of State with the Deltaplan Dementie in 2007. I am therefore very much in favour of this. I also see that they are super-specialists who provide a huge demand. As far as I'm concerned, they have to stay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u26	I welcome this answer. I heard the word superspecialists. I'll share that. I would be very sorry if there were mass cases of dementia fired because of the expertise they have and because of the relationship they have built with the people. It is precisely in the case of dementia that I think it is very important that the case managers remain dementia, and that not only the chains remain intact, but also the people. I hope the Labour Party will support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u27	That's not a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u28	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u29	I hear that the Labour Party thinks that we are debating an outdated report, namely that 40% of the municipalities say they lack money. But in the study to which Mr Krol and I referred, it has been calculated that there will be almost 5 billion deficits in the municipalities in 2018. That message isn't out of date. How does the Labour Party feel about that? Is that okay? Is that okay with the care?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u30	No. I know that message, of course. In recent years in which we have debated the introduction of the Wmo, I have seen huge investigations pass by. My experience is slowly but surely that if you consider them well and see what comes out of them, you can actually reduce them by a factor of tig. In fact, these investigations are always based on fear, fear and judgment, and never on hard facts. I have slowly but surely got used to the adage "see first then believe."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u31	Well, it's easy for the Labour Party to deal with all the investigations like that. The fact is that I have not heard from Mrs Wolbert about all those elderly people with whom she is so concerned and who have lost their domestic help or who do not spend more or much less hours on the day. I haven't heard from her about all the carers who suffer from that. None of that would happen either, because care would be closer, better, more cosy and surrounded by all kinds of people, and none of that has happened. I believe that report is correct. The Labour Party will be back here in a year's time and we'll see what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u32	I don't hear a question, but I'd like to respond. We have had studies here, which predicted that 30,000, 40,000 and even 60,000 people would be on the sidelines in home care. None of that happened. Last year I saw a survey of general practitioners, which showed that three-quarters of the general practitioners thought that things were not going well. In the course of the year, thank God that reality is getting the upper hand, that things are getting changed and that work is changing. Next, you will only see general practitioners concerned about the point that Mrs Bruins Slot indicated, namely whether they can be consulted on an indication for the Wlz. I've learned that in this house, you have to be a little careful with those big numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u33	I did not give the impression that the general practitioner has only one concern, that of the indication. It strikes me that general practitioners run into a lot of things, because they have a greater number of older people in practice and it is often the first brands when the coordination between care does not work out well. Does Mrs Wolbert see that there are other concerns arising from such a survey among the general practitioners?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u34	Of course. When you get a survey of the concerns you have, you always fill them out. Unfortunately, there are no surveys on how happy general practitioners are with their profession. Surveys are always about anxiety and fear, and then you get answers about anxiety and fear. I can also see that general practitioners are under pressure and that they receive a lot of extra tasks. Fortunately, in my work visit I also see general practitioners taking fantastic initiatives, without being asked to do so. I was last week in Winsum and in Bedum, where everyone was screened in a practice of four doctors. In Groningen there is a large project of Healthy Aging. TogetherOld.. where all the elderly are screened. They are offered care and case management. Satisfaction is higher than 8. The same project is now being carried out in Drenthe and can be taken over throughout the Netherlands. It is an initiative of health insurers and general practitioners. So it is possible and I am delighted with these large-scale initiatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u35	My point is that we have been able to fix a number of things precisely through that survey of general practitioners. That is where the health survey has been very good. The number of Article 12 municipalities, the number of municipalities in huge financing problems, is higher than many years before. This year extra money for Wmo care has been made available by the Secretary of State. Many municipalities have also invested from their own funds. But they can't do that year by year. As of 1 January 2016, less money will come from the State Secretary and less money will come from the municipality's own funds. Can Mrs Wolbert imagine that municipalities will therefore have a task of getting the budget to be final without increasing the real estate tax to a maximum?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u36	Of course, I can imagine that very well. The challenges facing the municipalities are very large. I'm the last one to deny that. Mrs Bruins Slot has taken part in a lot of debates in this house and she has seen the same effect as I have: you have to take big numbers seriously, but whether you really have to take them in that size and in full measure for what, I question. Finally, of course, I very much agree with Mrs Bruins Slot that there is nothing wrong with the signaling and signaling. That is very good, because then we will be well informed. However, I have a tendency to look into the practical aspects of the general practitioner's practice and there I see some wonderful developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u37	Mr. Chairman. We deal with two thirty-member debates in one. Those are thirty member debates that were requested almost a year ago on surveys conducted a year ago on expectations that municipalities and doctors had at that time about health care laws to be introduced, which we have implemented by 1 January. The President knows what my group thinks about 30 Members' debates, and that feeling has only been reinforced this evening. In the year since these debates were requested, the necessary changes have been made. We have had good debates in the Chamber, which have shown that the field has really been listened to. And now, as of 1 January, the reforms have actually started. Of course, it is important to continue to speak with everyone involved, the municipalities and the general practitioners, not least. We received a letter today from the National Family Medical Association, and I could not quite escape the impression, when I read that letter, that there was a little bit of surprise there about our debate tonight on a survey which she had conducted so long ago. Of course, it's a good thing that the general practitioners make themselves heard. They also indicate a number of concrete points in their letter. Other speakers have already asked questions about it. I think it is right for the Secretary of State to go into that more closely. As is well known, the VVD strongly supports the reform of long-term care. This reform leads us to organise care closer to people and to give good care to future generations. You can only do that by keeping the care affordable. And yes, this reform requires a great deal of everyone involved: municipalities, healthcare providers, general practitioners, district nurses, carers and the clients themselves. They're big changes, but they're necessary. We need to keep track of how this reform is going to work in practice. I was therefore positively surprised by Mrs Wolbert's example. We must continue to look for the fine initiatives and examples that are indeed there. When I visited Stadskanaal a while ago, I was also very impressed by that project TogetherOld. For several reasons it is a very interesting project, but in my opinion it is especially interesting because the municipality, the health insurance companies, the general practitioners and the AWBZ providers work together very intensively there. That project is still followed by scientists, but a preliminary conclusion can already be drawn, namely that less money can be provided for better care and that the general practitioners are relieved very much, because they deal with questions in a different way that are not so much of a medical nature. We are faced with the problem that I have discussed with the Secretary of State on a number of occasions. The three municipalities, the health insurance company and the Wlz providers finance a project that reduces the overall cost of care. A cost item, however, is going to go up a lot, namely Wmo expenditure. I am therefore pleased that the Secretary of State has promised that he will consider whether and how we can adjust the financing of the Municipal Fund to this. It is complicated, but the Secretary of State is undoubtedly familiar with this case, and it certainly deserves to be involved in this matter. I think it is interesting to do so anyway, because this project has been a bit under the radar. In any case, I have not seen it in the Chambers too often. If new research data become available, they should be discussed with a response from the Secretary of State. It is a good example of how we can relieve both the general practitioner and make the lives of the elderly better in that environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u38	To begin with, I must say that I am very pleased that both the VVD and the Labour Party are now behind TogetherOld. I can remember that the financing of this project, when it was going on for a year and a half, was in danger of falling. I made a proposal at the time to continue this project. That proposal could not count on the support of these groups, and it is good that the health insurer who drew this project continued to support it. Now that the results are coming out, I think it's time we embrace it with more parties. Fortunately, the government parties are doing the same now. I'm gonna go back to the GP. The VVD believes that the general practitioner should be given a pivotal role in the care of the elderly, but listening to the same general practitioners does not need to be done by this party. Supporting a debate on alarming survey results is not what the VVD is doing. When I asked the GPs in 2013 what they noticed about the changes in the care, I didn't ask about their expectations, but about concrete changes, the VVD also didn't think that was important enough to take notice of them. I asked the Secretary of State to bring in his transition monitor, or whatever that piece is called, in April a question to general practitioners to find out how the elderly are doing at home. Would the VVD support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u39	First of all, whether or not you support the endless flow of debate requests here has nothing to do with what you may or may not think is important. That has to do with how you look at the way you treat things wisely in parliament. You can't blame me for not having enough concern about this. I think it is right that the LHV should also say this and I believe that what the Secretary of State has already agreed is that you should continue to monitor the general practitioners as well as how the whole reform of long-term care is developing. How exactly you shape that, I'll leave it to the LHV and the VWS Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u40	Can I read that as a yes? Does the VVD support that call? After all, I know how these kinds of monitors and evaluations work out. It is about domes, about policy questions and about all kinds of noise around them. This creates all kinds of bureaucracy and hassle; that is what we were talking about this afternoon. Let us just agree that we, perhaps through the National Family Doctors Association, just let two, three very simple questions walk along with the monitor. What do you notice about the changes in care for the elderly? Is it gonna get better or is it gonna get worse? Where do the general practitioners see any improvements? This will enable us to take into account the judgment of those who really have an insight into what is happening in practice. I would like to hear from the VVD that she supports this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u41	I do not think it would be wise to describe such a whole monitor and question with each other here in the Chamber. It seems obvious to me that the Secretary of State and the Cabinet also have to listen to some general practitioners about the changes in health care. I think they're just gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u42	The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Dijkstra of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u43	Mr. Chairman. It has already been said that this debate is a merger of two thirty Members' debates, both of which were requested in March last year. We've been ten months. We have dealt with the Wmo and the Long-Term Care Act and improved on important points. The transfer of tasks to municipalities on 1 January is a fact. This means that the context of the subjects we are discussing tonight is different from that of the debates that were requested. In the run-up to this debate, we received a letter from the general practitioners indicating that there have been real improvements in a number of areas of concern to them last year, including the short-term stay and the use of older medicine specialists. However, concerns remain about care for older people living in a small-scale form of housing. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that general care can always be provided and that a specialist in old age medicine is always available? Are there enough specialists in old-age medicine? Is the Secretary of State prepared to monitor this and inform the Chamber on a regular basis? I also ask a question about the cooperation between the general practitioner and the district nurse in the social neighbourhood teams. I realize that we are only very short in 2015, but does the Secretary of State have any idea how this is going in practice? Has he received any reports of any bottlenecks in that cooperation? If so, where are these bottlenecks? Are there enough district nurses? This brings me to my second point: the state of play concerning the decentralisation of aid and support for vulnerable elderly people. In this case too, things are only going on for a short time, I know. Nevertheless, I ask the question: can the Secretary of State indicate how many reports have been received in the first four weeks of this year through the official reporting point and what was the nature of these reports? Last year we talked a great deal about the transfer of tasks and the question of whether it could all be justified. As a chamber, we must be able to follow it properly and systematically. As I understand it, we will have the first progress monitor in April. What information can we expect? Just now it was about that question. How is the Secretary of State going to include a comparative analysis of how municipalities deal with the targets? With regard to the case manager, I would like to join the concerns of the CDA and the Christian Union. When we talk about care for the elderly, it is also about pgb. At the end of last year, D66 warned of a threatening chaos in the implementation of the pgbs by the SVB. Now the emergency scenarios are tumbling all over each other. The phone at Per Balance is red-hot. People are very concerned about whether their regular caregivers are getting paid their salary. Vulnerable elderly people and their carers don't know what they're up to. Carers of demented elderly people no longer see the forest through the trees and small-scale housing forms are afraid to fall. It's chaos. The SVB loses care contracts. People are on hold for hours and the website is overloaded or showing old information. We have been trying to get a debate on the agenda here for two weeks. PvdA and VVD keep stopping this. The Secretary of State writes in written answers that it is all in order now. However, the practice is different. Pgb holders stay with their hands in their hair, because they know nothing. That is why we have the following questions. What can the Secretary of State actually do to ensure that these problems are resolved as quickly as possible? Can he also tell me how many administrative accidents there are at the SVB? How is he going to make sure that communication with the pgb holders really gets better and as soon as possible? What has been the outcome of today's discussion with Per Recht and the SVB? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u44	Mr. Chairman. Today there are two topics that started on 14 March 2014. In the intervening period, of course, the necessary changes have been made. There are two questions: do municipalities have enough money and how does the Secretary of State deal with the signals given by the general practitioners? On the issue of money and municipalities, I would like to point out that a number of changes have been made in the financial sense since March 2014. The 2014 budget agreement provided an additional 195 million for 2015 with a rolling series of up to 30 million in 2019. The budget agreement of April 2014 provided for a number of additional resources to allow access for nursing homes to the people with a zzp 4. Additional money has also been made available for the household aid allowance. I shall return to the substance of the matter. We can therefore see that a number of additional resources have been made available since the signals of 14 March 2014. In the meantime, we have also finished the contract. This means that agreements have been made with different healthcare providers on day-to-day spending and guidance and that it has been agreed to ensure continuity of care as much as possible. There is always discussion and fuss about this contracting, but in the vast majority of cases, if not all, this continuity of care in the transition situation in 2015 is guaranteed. The debate is now taking place on how this care can be organised much better. This does not mean that it is a very easy task for the municipality. There is a very important task, because not only quality but also efficiency and affordability are a task for municipalities. I note, however, that there is now a debate on how to organise day-to-day spending and counselling, whether transport can be better organised, whether administrative burdens can be reduced, and how to make a good combination of living, care and well-being. After the major changes we are now three weeks in January. As regards continuity and contracting, there seems to be reasonable arrangements. We all still have to see that. I think it's far too early for a judgment on that. However, I note that municipalities are now working with healthcare providers to bring this to a successful conclusion. A number of studies have been carried out on how this will develop in the long term. A number of Members of Parliament have referred to a number of investigations carried out by agencies which show that the figure is 5 billion. Do we not have exactly the problem we are talking about here? If we were to spend an additional 5 billion on care in the next few years, which would lead to huge issues of affordability and sustainability for the future, it would be very good to start thinking now about how to organise this differently and whether we can organise it more effectively, especially in terms of affordability and accessibility for people on a narrow stock exchange. So I think it is very good that these signals are being sent out. These are signs for me that we cannot start thinking a day too early about how we can make long-term care more sustainable and bring it closer to the citizen. Is that an easy task? Not at all. Will we never talk about the money again? Undoubtedly very often, as we always do in healthcare. We follow the question, see how the supply develops and see how we can organise it. However, let us not get ahead of ourselves. We are now three weeks in January. The changes have just taken place and the contracting has just ended. On the basis of signals from a year ago, we are already predicting that everything is not going well. That does not seem to me to be the right way forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u45	I believe that all the spokesmen today have addressed the topicality and the signals we are getting today. So I think it would be wise for the Secretary of State to take that up...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u46	I certainly will.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u47	...but the monkey is getting a little out of it now. The Secretary of State simply says that he is not at all prepared to pay the 5 billion that the municipalities according to COELO's research are about to fail. He is not prepared to pay it collectively at all, but of course there is a price tag to cancel that nearly 5 billion. That is the price tag for the people at home, who get no or less support or care, but also the price tag for the people who lose their jobs. What does the Secretary of State think of an acceptable outcome? How many people in the neglect, how many people in the pollution, how many people in the street?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u48	Mr President, with permission, what are these questions? I am looking forward to keeping the care of vulnerable people accessible and affordable in the long term. Anyone who says that no adjustments are necessary does not tell the full story. We now have 2.6 million elderly people who we want to take good care of. Soon we will have 4.8 million elderly people for whom we want to take very good care. Then you cannot simply say that we should leave the existing arrangement like this and see how we are going to do it later. Then we should not say to each other later: gosh, we should have thought of that a little earlier! I am therefore in favour of making care for the elderly more sustainable by now. If we want not only us, our parents and their children, to have good care for the elderly, we must now make a number of adjustments. If we don't implement it, we're gonna be in big trouble. If we look away from it and run away from it, we're not telling the right story. Then we look away from the problems that are about to arise. I don't choose that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u49	The Secretary of State outlines a purely financial problem, but there are people behind it. The Secretary of State has 10 billion a year skimming off the AWBZ grant we all pay. He won't do anything about it, but he'll cut back on the people at home. My main criticism is that these adjustments do not generate savings, but more expensive care. Implementation costs are increasing and the bill is being passed on to the people. They're gonna have to pay for it on their own. I asked the Secretary of State very clearly what ultimately is an acceptable outcome of the statement that society does not want to pay 5 billion for care for the elderly. That is actually what the Secretary of State says. How many people have to be polluted at home and lonely for that? And how many have to get fired and stand on the street? I wouldn't mind if the Secretary of State answered that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u50	Perhaps it would be a good thing if Mrs Leijten could point out in the minutes that are still being made when I said that we are not prepared to pay 5 billion for anything. I didn't say that at all! There is a study which states that, in the absence of any policy, we may be facing up to 5 billion additional expenditure, with all the comments made by Mrs Wolbert. They are all assumptions and extrapolations. Then I say: are we not obliged together to think about how we are going to organise care for the elderly in the Netherlands, so that it remains available? That's not just a story about affordability. We may not agree entirely on this, but if a substantial part of the people choose to stay at home for longer, whether or not driven by policy, it would be wise to think about how we organise it. Yes, this has implications for the way in which general practitioners should be organised. And yes, that has consequences for the way in which the neighborhood care should be organised. And yes, that has implications for the way in which the specialists in old-age medicine are going to work with primary care. And yes, this has implications for the cooperation between municipalities, primary care and insurers to see how home care can be organised in a better way. Did that happen in one pinch? No. Is that a very difficult assignment? Yes. Should we start with that tomorrow? No, we have to start now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u51	Where does the Secretary of State think that 5 billion came from in 2018?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u52	There is no deficit of 5 billion. The study cited says that expenditure could increase by 5 billion if it is based on unchanged policies and working with all kinds of assumptions, in which case we have a problem. That's how I can do it. I think it is an important signal, because in our society we have to take into account a heavier demand for care, sometimes accompanied by higher costs. Sometimes the question is also how to organise care more closely. So now we have to think about the affordability of care. We should not take a report with all kinds of assumptions and a forecast deficit of 5 billion to conclude that this is a problem. No, we need to get to work now to prevent the problem from arising, both in terms of quality and affordability. I think that's important. That's the point of money for the city.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u53	I wasn't quite finished. The question is, where does that amount of 5 billion come from? In 2015, a large number of municipalities will survive. They're feeding on their reserves. However, they are no longer available in 2016 and 2017. The policy in 2015 on the fence of the municipality was chucked with discounts on domestic help, guidance, daily spending and sheltered living. Well, that's gonna be nicely taken care of right now. In 2016 that will be a lot less. In 2017 it will be completely reduced and in 2018 the municipalities will have no money for this. The question of care does not change. However, the amount of money made available by the Empire will change. Maybe the deficit is 4 billion or 6 billion, but there will be a huge deficit in 2018, I am convinced of that. The older people who don't get care are the victims of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u54	The question of care will change. If people choose to fill in their living and caring questions in a different way than they are now, we have to take that into account. The demand for inpatient care will decrease or change, reducing the cost of the capital costs and accommodation costs of institutions. We may incur more costs for care and support at home. There will be a shift in budgets. There will also be a shift between collective spending and things that people pay for themselves. In a changing society where we get twice as many elderly people, we need to ensure that they receive care and support in the best possible way. That care is financed in a different way than it is now. It's good to start now to keep us from being late. Otherwise we will say to each other for a number of years: we had only made a few adjustments ten years ago. I think it's important that we do this now. A number of general comments have been made on the signals of the general practitioners. Then I come to the specific questions. I take the signals from the general practitioners very seriously. If many older people choose to fill in their quality of life in a different way and stay at home for longer, another family doctor's question arises. The increasing number of elderly people will come to the general practitioners with other care questions. We need to think about what that means for the practices of the general practitioners. Can we do it the same way we do it now? How should general practitioners work with practitioners in the field of old age medicine? How will the cooperation between the district nurse and the general practitioner take shape? Is the interaction between the specialist elderly medicine and the general practitioners appropriate enough for the future? That's very good. Together, the LHV and VWS have already made agreements to monitor with each other what the growth of older people in our society and the other choices they want to make in terms of living, care and well-being are going to mean for general practitioners. We're gonna start that monitor together. A number of studies are already under way at NIVEL to see whether the general practitioner care is appropriate for the future and what this means for the effectiveness, management and practice of general practitioners. We must do that in the coming period. I am very willing to do so. I've already sat around the table with the National General Medical Association to make arrangements. I have said that I want to do this not only with them, but also with the specialists in the care of the elderly, with Verenso, because we need to think with the general practitioners and the elderly doctors about how future care for the elderly should be organised, not only in general practitioners, but also in the institutions and in the interaction between institutions and first line.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u55	I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment, but I would like to know if he is prepared to involve the elderly's associations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u56	Very. The elderly unions have enough knowledge, skills and experience to consider the future of care for the elderly. I would therefore very much like to involve them in this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u57	Can I conclude from the State Secretary's argument that he is not yet able to say too much about the pressure on general practitioners in terms of increasing care for the elderly, but that he does want to monitor this in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u58	Yes. The agreements are already being implemented. This also affects the way in which the general practitioner's practice is sometimes organised and the way in which it operates: which assistants are there, what cooperation is there with the specialist on old age medicine, what does this mean for cooperation in practice, should there be more work with general practitioners in neighbourhood and service centres, or should it be organised in a different way? We really need to think about that. We need to involve not only the general practitioners, but also the district nurses, the elderly medicine specialist and the pharmacists, so that the first line of the future is suitable to respond to this new question that is raised in a society that is greyer than it is today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u59	I'm glad the Secretary of State wants to put the monitor wide, but let's make sure we start soon. I understand from the National General Medical Association that it wants to be at the start soon. Does the Secretary of State want that, and does he have a date in mind for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u60	We want to get to the start soon. By the way, the LHV itself is there because the general practitioners, the members of the LHV, have to make that monitor. As far as I am concerned, this can be done as quickly as possible. I hope to be able to report the first results somewhere around May. A number of specific questions have been asked on these issues. Mrs. Gerbrands asked in relation to quality and care closer to whether everything is going well. A number of members of the Court have commented on whether municipalities are going to conduct proper consultations with clients. In this context, the term "kitchen table conversation" has been mentioned a few times. If people feel that they are not well helped and then go to court, whether or not they are facilitated by their interest organisation, that is a pity. Mrs. Bruins Slot said that would be almost a loss, and I agree. That shouldn't be necessary. I would like to make a few comments on this. The law we have passed together is clear on the issue of care and what municipalities should do, also in terms of customer support. There have also been statements that have led some municipalities to adjust their policies. In this context, I mention the case in Dantumadiel in which they asked: can the municipality just stop this? This led to a court ruling that whether it was the daughter or not, in this case, the daughter cleaned the house and care could not be stopped. The other side is that it is also the right of people to do this. If they are dissatisfied, they can go to court and ask for a different ruling. However, I believe that the best way to ensure that this process is done as carefully as possible should be done on the front. I can very well imagine that when there is a heavy conversation, where things have to be adapted or where there is a need to look at the matter in a broad way, with regard to customer support or the caregiver, that in many cases cannot be done with a telephone call. I have said, apart from the law, I have sent a letter to all the aldermen to remind them of that care and the statements about Dantumadiel.................................................................................................................................................. The intention is not to stop people from exercising their rights, because if people want to do so, they have to appeal to them, but to ensure even more clearly at the front that conversations are conducted in a careful manner. In the meantime, I understand from the UNG that it is in any case prepared to invest further, including towards its members, and to ensure that this happens. This process is now in full swing. The municipalities already had a Wmo. They are now discussing this with their citizens. Everyone does so in their own way. That too is decentralisation. I don't think all the wise men I see are smart. At the same time, I believe that municipalities should primarily keep this process in motion together with the city council and monitor it. That's what democracy is for. Sometimes there's a judge for that, too. I think that with Mrs Bruins Slot is a loss. We can not only point out the care in the law at the front, but we can also stick to this and continue to encourage the process with client organisations if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u61	Of course, it is a good step to stimulate the process together with client organisations. However, this happens at the time when the municipality has taken the step to have a personal conversation. After sending his letter, does the Secretary of State fully believe that every municipality is actually having a conversation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u62	Of course, I can't have that full conviction in this place. I can't see at any time of the day what 393 municipalities are doing. However, I note in my consultation with the VNG that there is a great deal of attention to that process, that the law is clear and that this has been explained to all aldermen. In the application a number of things sometimes go well and sometimes not well. There are control mechanisms on this; not only from the city council, but sometimes also from the judge. That's too bad. I do my best by pointing out for my part what the wishes and demands are for the talks to be conducted carefully. We're gonna have to see if that's gonna work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u63	In such a large city as Utrecht, for a very large group of clients, household help has been reduced at once. That didn't happen according to the proper procedure. Has the Secretary of State considered using the instrument of suspension and destruction? That would have made it clear that 600 people have now lodged an objection. The municipality of Utrecht should have just made another decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u64	The law is clear on this point. Then there is the execution by the municipality. And then a number of people saw reason to go to court. I respect that. That means that I too simply have to wait for the judge's ruling on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u65	The Secretary of State has the instrument of suspension and destruction, of course, to destroy decisions taken by municipalities in violation of the law. He can then arrange for thousands of people in such a church to make the decision again at once. Why didn't the Secretary of State consider doing that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u66	Because the decision in the relevant municipality was not so much wrong. In particular, questions have been raised concerning the application of those acts. The decision wasn't: we're not gonna talk to people. The decisions taken comply with the law. Then you have to check whether the requirements of care apply in the execution. Some people have objected to that. That's a little bit of how you do this with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u67	I welcome the step taken by the Secretary of State by engaging with the VNG and client organisations to see if this can improve at the front of the process. Meanwhile, my mailbox and the address of our Support Center Care for Well-being are filled with stories of people who are cut from one day to the next and with whom no calls have been made. It's really not going well in a lot of places. People who are in wheelchairs and who can only use their heads and a little bit their right-hand. Such a lady has e-mailed me... are shortened by phone until I believe one and a half or two hours of domestic support in the week. That's just not possible at all. Kitchen tables are held in which people are told: perhaps you should eat less, because then you will have some money for domestic help. I would rather not have the debate at this level. These are cases, and I understand the Secretary of State can't respond to everything. I would very much like to stand next to these people and state that I am bringing their point into the debate with the Secretary of State. I would therefore like to ask him what we are going to do about this. These people are really getting a lack of care. I want to help them. What can I tell them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u68	I can't judge whether or not these people lack care. We have laid down in the law that appropriate care should be assessed in a careful process. We have created safeguards with checks-and-balances so that people are in position. There's client support. Care will be taken to ensure that care is involved. Municipalities should also point to the possibility of customer support. If people disagree, there are safeguards in the law, in the sense that people can object to it. If municipalities don't do that carefully enough, they will be flagged back by the city council or by me, if it plays at the level of the decisions, or by the judge. In that sense, people can get their rights. Once again, I think it is very wrong that we should have to do this through the courts, because we need to carry out this process as carefully as possible. But there may be cases where things go wrong, which then have to be discussed or fought out. Sometimes, unfortunately, that will be with the judge, but that's how we arranged it with each other. I think it is quite right that these signals are there. If there are these signals, then I would point out to the congregations that these processes must be done carefully. I see that happening, too. That is why I think it is also right to take the step together to ensure that this process is far more advanced, in the sense that we, together with municipalities and client organisations, decide what demands and wishes you have to make for such a good conversation. Others will have to take care of that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u69	In procedural terms, we have managed well with each other. I sincerely hope, with the Secretary of State, that these signals will diminish as time goes on, that people will be given the right care, that there will be a good conversation with them. Would the Secretary of State, if he is still talking to the VNG, like to bring the Ombudsman to the fore again? Court proceedings take a very long time. Meanwhile, people are awaiting good care. The Chamber has adopted a motion from the Christian Union; we have not enshrined it in the law, but municipalities can set up an ombud function, which may help people more quickly because there is someone to intercede for them. Then, of course, they can go to court later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u70	I am very willing to bring that to the attention of the municipalities one more time. In many municipalities, the advantages and disadvantages of this are discussed. That might help, too. It is in itself up to the city council to determine and establish this, but I am very willing to bring that to the attention of municipalities once again. The above was about whether the process is careful. Mrs Bruins Slot added the question about the indication and when it can and cannot be done. I need to be very careful. The criteria forzzp 4 that give you access to a nursing home have not changed so much compared to the current situation in the AWBZ, other than that the indication is no longer in minutes, but that it is about access. That means that on the client's own statement, for whatever reason, or from the district nurse or the general practitioner, the discussion is started: boy, are we still at home? Then an indication can be requested from the CIZ. They'll check to see if anyone meets the criteria. Sometimes the CIZ investigates, sometimes on the spot. The main line of the criteria is the question: is 24 hours of supervision needed or are you still able to direct your own daily necessities? If that is not the case, you will have access to a health care facility. That is the access side, in which the CIZ can sometimes consult the general practitioner and ask: what about the situation of Mr or Mrs? The same is true when there is not only an access request but also if, as it were, the cashing takes place. Then the healthcare office should talk to the client and ask: to which care institution do you want? Sometimes people say: I don't really want to go to a care facility; I want to stay home as long as possible. Then the care office will be asked whether that is justified. There should also be consultation with the general practitioner, for example. I have already spoken with healthcare insurers in the Netherlands to see if that process should be a little more sharper. I have asked healthcare insurers the Netherlands and the National Family Doctors Association what they do in those cases. It is then necessary to assess whether this care can be provided in a responsible manner in the home situation. If this is not the case, the care office has a duty to ensure that the care is provided in an institution. But sometimes people with an indication of access to an institution, to my surprise too, still choose not to do so, because there are all kinds of circumstances or help is arranged. Then someone like that says, "I don't cash that access or I don't." You've got to keep checking to see if that's a responsible situation. The general practitioner has a role in this, but also the district nurse and others.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u71	I also asked about the group that falls a bit between shore and ship. That's about the people who don't get an indication from the ClZ. They therefore do not fall into the category zzp 4. But for example, the general practitioner and the environment say about them that it can no longer be done at home. The CIZ is now and then very easy, because that can ask the question: can you still press the alarm button? If the answer to that is "yes," you're out of luck and you have to do it with the Wmo and home care. But there's a category of people outside ofzzp 4. They were highzzp 3 in the past, just to keep it technical. They can no longer live at home responsibly and now fall between shore and ship, even if the general practitioner is consulted. What will the Secretary of State do with this group?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u72	Firstly, there is the question of how support in the home situation can be properly regulated. If there is no access to a nursing home according to the rules we have made with each other, living at home is therefore possible, but with support in the home situation. There will be nurse or other care, or adjustments to the house will be made if necessary. We have arranged in the Wmo that there should be appropriate provision for this. There will always be a moment when the GP, the nurse or the client himself says: now I ask for a renewed indication from the CIZ because it has gotten worse. Medical judgement will always play a role in this, but we have just agreed that we are organizing an objective test. We have said: let us try to make it objective when you have access to a healthcare institution and do not let it depend on whether the municipality gives good care or not. So we need to look at the care that is needed for the client concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u73	With all due respect, we're talking about people here. There are people who do not get the stamp "24 hour surveillance" but who, for example, walk out the front door twice a week at night. Or a lady can, if the nurse has been in the evening, make a glass of warm milk before bedtime, and let the pan burn. We're talking about that category. For the category that really can't do it anymore, it's obvious. There is also a category that works well with home care, care, household care and an afternoon of daily spending. But there's also a group that falls right in between. That's where the accidents are gonna happen and the deaths are gonna fall. What's the Secretary of State gonna do with that group? Or do accidents have to happen first?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u74	To assess whether things are going on at home any longer, we have precisely arranged for an objective test to be carried out to determine whether there is a need for 24-hour surveillance, or whether someone can still direct his daily life. That's what we invented these tests for; they're in the law. We have made instructions to the CIZ for it and they must be carried out as such. Assessing whether or not a person is eligible is therefore individual customization. That consideration must be made for the individual. We've agreed the rules with which that happens. Isn't that how we're supposed to do it with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u75	The nasty thing is that people never comply with protocols; vulnerable elderly people don't comply with protocols. Then it's important that we rely on the professional, whether that's the GP or the CIZ. I often hear in the answer of the Secretary of State the word "sometimes"; sometimes the general practitioner can be involved. My question then is: why can't the general practitioner always be involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u76	That's because it doesn't always have to. Sometimes it's obvious that things aren't going on at home anymore. Sometimes research shows that the conclusion is clear. And sometimes the conclusion is not clear. Then you will consult the general practitioner, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u77	I notice that in the answer of the Secretary of State there is a kind of one-way traffic; if the CIZ finds that it has doubts, it will call. I recognize that from a work visit I once made to the CIZ. But I am talking to more and more general practitioners who say: I myself see that things are not going well and that, although the paper requirements may not yet be met, we are in a risky situation because, for example, the conditions for 24-hour care in this area cannot be properly regulated. Then how can general practitioners get rid of their care towards the CIZ?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u78	That can, I think, always, because an indication can be asked for. I have just said that sometimes it is also on the client's or the relatives themselves, that it sometimes happens by nurses and that sometimes the healthcare provider says: we are now going to apply for a healthcare indication. I assume that Mrs Bruins Slot agrees with me that an assessment will be made on the basis of the law we have made with each other. If a person is not eligible for access to an institution according to the rules or the assessment, an appropriate provision must therefore be provided by the municipality. We also wrote that in the law. I do not want the municipality to be able to say: if I organize my facilities in the home situation very badly, then all people will have to go to an institution on their own. That wouldn't be good. What I want is that there are very good facilities in the home situation, that there is good community care and that there is good daily spending and guidance for people who need it. The municipality must therefore offer an appropriate provision in accordance with the law. If it is not sufficient, because the client's situation is such that it does not work at home, then we have a provision in the law to gain access to an institution. Isn't that what we've arranged with each other? How can we say in the third week of January that this is not going well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u79	There is a great deal of theory in this Secretary of State, but the practice is different. In November 2013 we consulted GPs about the consequences of not being allowed to go to a nursing home of the elderly. 73% of the general practitioners we questioned indicated, in practice, that this had been introduced. And 80% of those general practitioners said that care at home is inadequate. They warned of isolation, neglect, but also, for example, of the danger of people being hospitalised more quickly, because there is no other facility. Does the Secretary of State think that, fourteen months later, with over 1.5 billion in savings, 1.2 billion on the WMO and 400 million on community care, according to these general practitioners, it has become better or worse for the people at home?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u80	Something else is going on. There are people in our society who choose to stay home longer. Part of that is reinforced by the policy we have put in place. For the rest, it is a trend that has been going on for decades. Since 1985, the number of nursing homes has been halved and the number of 80-plussers has doubled. Those are the facts. Those general practitioners are right to note that as people stay at home longer, there is a greater concern for them. So we need to think together about what this means. What does this mean for the general practitioner's practice, for the support, for the cooperation with the district nurses, for the cooperation with the specialist elderly medicine? Not all of that can be attributed to changing a law. You can't say: now we're changing the law and the work of the general practitioner is increasing. It's not like that. That may be strengthened or that may have become a little stronger, but the trend we see in society is that people stay home longer. This also results in shifts in the way in which healthcare provision should be organised. That's a good thing, because it would be weird to turn it around: we don't really want people to live at home any longer; it's more convenient to put them in institutions, because then we can take better care of them. That would be the reverse world, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u81	The shift from an institution to a longer home has been going on for years. I also think it is a logical shift, which is indeed in line with people's wishes. However, if you close the nursing homes and short on home care, that's a poisonous cocktail. Then you can talk about social trends, but I hear more and more from older people: give me a pill from Drion, I am too much for this society. I look at the statistics and see that three quarters of the people who depend on support in the Wmo live below the social minimum. What are they going to think of this debate? Then the question is whether it has gotten better or worse since those GPs issued that signal fourteen months ago, isn't it easy to answer for the Secretary of State? No, he's looking away. He's talking about the theory, but he's not looking at the practice. I would like the Secretary of State to say what he says to the elderly who say: give me a pill, because I feel too much for this society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u82	What a curious question. If, in our society, people increasingly choose to stay at home for longer periods of time, Mrs Leijten says that this does not mean that we should think about how we are going to deal with this? Should we say: let us keep the care and nursing homes in place, because that is easy? It is precisely because we are talking about people that we need to see how we can organise family health care, community care and nursing care in a different way. On the one hand, we are faced with a much more serious concern, while on the other hand we need to look at how care and support at home can be better organised. This has consequences for the general practitioners, the district nurses and the specialists in the care of the elderly. I want to look with them at the consequences and what this means for their management and practice. That's what we're gonna do. I think that we are dealing with people rather than systems. Or are we saying that we do not close care homes or nursing homes because people want to stay home longer? Let us look forward and not look back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u83	Fine. I hope that the Secretary of State will be somewhat in a final atmosphere so that we can see if there is a need for a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u84	I'm not quite in the final mood yet, there were quite a few interruptions, but I'll try to answer the questions as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u85	We're afraid of the snowfall. We don't want to get snowed in.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u86	If we get snowed in, we can debate each other for a very long time. That'll make it cozy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u87	The choice is yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u88	Mrs Leijten asked us how we look at the limitation of domestic aid, who is responsible for it, and whether the household aid allowance is a success. It is true that domestic aid is being restricted. By the way, we are still giving approximately 1 billion to the municipalities for this purpose. I have said before that we may not agree with each other, but if we have to turn every dime around to keep care affordable and high quality, then I think it is reasonable that, if we want to keep the heavier care out of the wind, we should look again at house cleaning and ask people what they can do and what others can do for them. I don't think that's an unreasonable question. We have just had a discussion about this, but I do not think that this is unreasonable, precisely in order to ensure the future of care, especially for vulnerable people. To be honest, I think it is far too early to say, in the third week of January, that the household aid allowance is not working at all. Of all the municipalities we have received plans for the household aid allowance, drawn up in collaboration with a lot of providers. That was more than we could afford. There is not even a brake on this; all plans have been met. The municipalities are working on the healthcare providers to set things up, and now we say in the third week of January that it is all going to be nothing. At the end of the year, we put into effect the household aid allowance, on the basis of plans by municipalities and providers together. Those plans have been honored. I think it is far too early to judge whether it is a success or not. I note that what was then honoured is based on the plans, including the employment effects, submitted by the municipalities and the providers themselves. Will we give them an opportunity to try and get that right? We can then come to an agreement later on whether this is a success or not and whether adjustments are needed. I am very willing to do so, but let us ensure that we are able to have that discussion properly. Mrs Leijten also asked a number of questions about the basic rates. As she knows, the law already provides that the municipalities must set tariffs in such a way as to meet the quality requirements that we are allowed to set when providing care. In line with the collective agreement that has now been concluded in the V&V sector, the parties have asked me whether there can be no General Measure of Governance that guarantees much more that the basic rates must be such that the collective agreement can also be paid. I am now in agreement with the parties on this. We will see if this leads to results. Mrs Leijten also quoted me. I would have said that the district nurse will take care of everything. That's not true. Neighborhood nursing won't solve everything. The GP won't solve everything. The old-age medicine specialist won't solve everything. I am concerned that we are creating a good new first line in which general practitioners, district nurses, elderly medicine specialists and pharmacies work well together to organise care close to the people in a good way. I come to Mr Krol's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u89	I have also submitted two examples to the Secretary of State and asked whether this is his new general practitioner's care. A nurse asks the general practitioner on behalf of the health insurance company to have a medication moment less per day. If they want to keep three medication moments, they have to justify it, while the patient just needs those three medication moments. I also mentioned having to fill in two A4s full of questions because bandages are prescribed for people. Does the Secretary of State really think that this is the new form of general care in the first line?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u90	I can't judge that. I don't know what the reason for those questions is. I don't know what the outcome is either. I don't know if the doctor's advice to the district nurse has been followed. I'm assuming so. We are looking at how we can organise care in a good way in many areas. Mrs Leijten may know better than I do that there is still a great deal of waste in the application and provision of resources. The number of reports we get on the use of tools is really huge. A number of measures can therefore be taken to restrict use. I am not in favour of this leading to all sorts of bureaucracy, forms and situations. That's not what I'm here for. However, I cannot say on the basis of two cases whether there is a good outcome. So I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u91	Will the Secretary of State perhaps comment on the fact that many general practitioners in the Netherlands have not signed the "signs on the right-hand side" contracts, the TREG contracts? This means, for example, that they are no longer able to provide care for the elderly. This concern is therefore not guaranteed in their practices. What does the Secretary of State say to that? Or doesn't he have a judgment on that either?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u92	That is another question, namely whether the negotiations between general practitioners and health insurance companies are satisfactory and what conflicts there are. That's a completely different issue, isn't it? That is the question of whether there are good contracts between health insurance companies and general practitioners and whether general practitioners agree and, if they do not, have discussions with the health insurance company. Isn't that what we go through every year? I am not saying that this is a good thing, but it is a discussion that takes place every year. I have also experienced these discussions myself in the time when I was working in a different role at VWS. That is a completely different matter. I have already answered Mrs Leijten's question as to whether I am prepared to look together with the general practitioners at the consequences of the increase in the number of vulnerable elderly people for general care and general practitioners. I'm gonna take a look at it with the GPs and the NIVEL. We're going to look at the group of patients involved, what care use is mapped out, whether it leads to more consultations and visits during the day and at night and what it means for the change of care questions. Of all these things, I'd like to see what they mean for general practitioners. I come to Mr Krol's questions. I have already responded to the 5 billion, so to speak. In addition, he asked me what we are doing to protect weaker municipalities. This is about the financial position of municipalities. I would like to point out that, in the debate on the distribution models, we are looking at whether we have found a good way of dividing the budgets among the municipalities. These were distributed in 2015 on the basis of historical costs. In 2016 we want to distribute them on the basis of objective criteria: which factors play a role in the budgets that municipalities should receive? This concerns the number of young people, the number of older people, the socio-economic position, the number of people in the assistance and that sort of thing. That process is now under way. Mrs Dik-Faber asked the same question. This is now for advice from the VNG and the Municipal Finance Council to see if we have a proper distribution. This could then lead to a new distribution model that we would like to announce at the May Circular. We also agreed earlier with the municipalities that we would do so at the May Circular. If that would lead to a shift in budgets, we will also look at what kind of growth path we have. In fact, I can imagine that such a change from A to B should not take place overnight, but should be a gradual process. In this way we try to ensure that municipalities receive the money in a fair way, so depending on the need and not just on historical costs. The Union's message on care programmes for vulnerable elderly people has been requested. In the administrative agreement that we have previously concluded with all parties, it has been agreed that work is being done on the development of chain care. The launch of a generic care programme for vulnerable elderly people which is soon to be launched has been a specific part of this. The idea is to avoid stacking all kinds of chronic programs and see if you could create one care path for vulnerable elderly people. We're working on that right now. The aim is to ensure that care for vulnerable older people is as closely linked as possible to existing care and that vulnerable older people are treated more proactively. A number of good examples from the north of the country have already gone over the table today: TogetherOld. I think that these are very good examples to achieve an almost proactive screening of vulnerable elderly people and thus to be present earlier. The healthcare programme will be developed this year, so that it can also play a role in the procurement by health insurance companies. I believe that I have already answered some of Mrs Dik-Faber's questions, except perhaps the questions on case management dementia. Mrs. Bruins Slot spoke about that, too. We've talked about that before. However, there is a difference between case management and the case manager; Mrs Wolbert already mentioned this. I think that all parties, including the health insurance companies, think it is important to maintain case management. That is, moreover, in anticipation of a more fundamental discussion on how we are going to deal with all this. I have also said in a previous debate that there are about 40 different financing methods. Sometimes these are subsidy schemes from county to county, sometimes they are action programmes or chain care programmes. That is a very complicated way of financing, which is not really so sustainable. We have agreed with the insurers that we will leave the dementia chains as intact as possible in 2015, so that we can look closely at how we are going to regulate this structuralally. Sometimes you see that case management is done by the district nurse or the district nurse who specialises in care for the elderly. Mrs Wolbert also spoke about this. Sometimes healthcare providers choose not to let case managers do it anymore, but by district nurses. In some cases, it is a waste of knowledge and skill. It is also, of course, sometimes a sin for the people themselves. So I want that process to be as careful as possible. Insurance companies are now in the process of shaping the purchasing process, because it only came about very late in the previous year. I am and will remain in consultation with health insurance companies. I cannot say at this point that in all cases this will not lead to shifts, because I think it is important that case management remains intact. Sometimes it's done by others. However, I am very aware that it is a very sensitive issue, particularly in the case of dementia care, because these chains often stand or fall with the use of the people involved. I am keen on this and I would like to use this debate on the Chamber and the signals in it once again to talk intensively with the health insurance companies again, to ensure that no wrong thing happens. It is very necessary for us to think together in 2015 about how we are going to organise this structuralally. That is what I wanted to include in the letter on dementia care that I promised. I promised it would come out this spring. I can imagine that the Chamber might want to hear something earlier on this point. I want to see if I can tell you in about a week or three what my findings are on the state of affairs surrounding the procurement of dementia care and chain care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u93	Inform in a week or three? To my knowledge, the commitment was to look at the situation before 1 January. The Secretary of State wants to make structural arrangements as of next year. That's nice, but right now I'm getting reports that case managers are getting dementia fired, that people have to miss their case manager, sit in their hair and panic because their trusted person disappears from sight. There is great uncertainty. Can the Secretary of State imagine that more action is needed here? What's he gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u94	That's why I can imagine we're not waiting for the dementia letter, we're going to look sooner. I would point out that it is often not the choice of the insurer because it has just contracted case management. The Health Insurance Act regulates this in the claims. However, the provider then chooses to invest it in a different way. That's mostly the situation. Thus, it often has nothing to do with the purchase itself, but with the way in which the healthcare provider fills out the contract. That does not alter the fact that I take the signal seriously and again talk to health insurers and healthcare providers to see how it goes. I will inform the Chamber about this rather than with the letter of dementia.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u95	It is very nice that the Secretary of State wants to talk to the health insurance companies and the providers, but what does he think about the case management function being invested with other than the case managers? We have just seen, in an interrupting debate, that case managers are dementia super-specialists, while they are now being dismissed. Get rid of expertise! Now we want to make structural arrangements for next year, but the whole structure has just gone away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u96	Let's be careful, because chain care and case management are important, but it all changes. In the "old" system, case management also often played a very important role for people who had to use different domains, i.e. home care, hospital or a small institution to guide people to an institution and to talk about the care plan. The case manager had, as it were, a directing function over the institutions and domains. In the new situation in the Long-Term Care Act there is that only for the people who need the heavy care. They do not need to be accompanied to an institution, because they are people who are already in an institution or who are coming there. This way the neighborhood nurse gets much more care at the people's home. Then you might as well invest in a neighborhood nurse who knows a lot about care for the elderly or dementia when the latter is at issue. So there is certainly reason to see how we are going to organise these chains, given these changes. However, I agree with Mrs Dik-Faber that you must be very careful to throw away knowledge, skills and expertise that you may need again. So it must be done very carefully. I very much agree with Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u97	Can the Secretary of State also comment in that letter on the phenomenon of a health insurance company purchasing something and a provider finding that he can also arrange this in a different way? I think that's a weird thing to do. Case management dementia is case management dementia. Alzheimer's Netherlands is very clear about that. I think it's kind of weird that it works that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u98	The health insurance company must do the purchase case management according to the standard agreed with the sector. That's right. However, this does not mean that this cannot be done by others other than the case manager as we know it now. This is sometimes done by a district nurse who specialises in dementia, for example, and who works according to the standard of care dementia. That is more about the people who do it and not about the nature of the care that indeed has to be purchased according to that standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u99	That is clear to me, but I was concerned about the standard and the fact that providers cannot simply replace it with something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u100	I want to look at this from the perspective of the Health Insurance Act. A standard in the Health Insurance Act is that you can keep the same carer as the one who started treatment the year before. If you apply this principle to the case manager, the people in that system would also be entitled to that case manager. Why am I saying that so loud? I do that because, of course, they are trusting people par excellence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u101	That is exactly why I want to do so, especially in the transitional year in which we are considering a structural arrangement. You will have to deal with existing situations very carefully. There should also be no discussion about the standard. Finally, you will have to be extra careful with familiar faces, because otherwise you may make the wrong choices. That's exactly why I promised to dive in again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u102	Do people who lose their familiar faces have a position to ask for that familiar face back?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u103	That is far too much for me at the moment. That is exactly what I want to include in the questioning for the letter. I also think that Mrs Bruins Slot wants me not only to ensure that there is a standard case management buy-in, but also that it should only be that person. People change jobs, too. Surely we can't agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u104	Mrs. Bruins Slot, this was a rhetorical question from the Secretary of State. I iron over my heart: ask your follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u105	The system of the Health Insurance Act is aimed at maintaining the relationship of trust with the treatment provider. I would ask the Secretary of State to comment in the letter on whether people who wish to retain their case manager should have a similar position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u106	I'll take that in the letter. Mr. Chairman. I believe that I have answered Mrs Dik-Faber's questions about the distribution model and the general practitioner's care. This does not apply to her question about the cooperation between health insurers and municipalities. How's that going in practice? It happens in different ways. I think it is very important that health insurers and municipalities do not have to discuss every misunderstanding with each other. The health insurance companies must ensure that their contracted general practitioners and district nurses are able to properly consult with, for example, the district team and the municipality. In turn, the municipality must enable the district team to properly consult with the first line. It is therefore necessary to include space in the contracts. It is also a reason why we have opened up additional financial scope for this. Other discussions between municipalities and insurers must also take place. I am thinking, for example, of how they can ensure a good connection between care at home or care in an institution and care for the neighbourhood. There is certainly also a need to talk about prevention and substitution of care. I see that there is an increase in consultation on this issue. Am I satisfied? No, that process is going on. By the way, we gave it a new impetus on 1 January. But in any case, especially at the basic level of district nurse care, general practitioners and district teams, the interaction is increasing considerably, especially since municipalities and insurers see the importance of this. Are we done with this? Not by a long shot! Mrs Wolbert made a number of comments which I would like to endorse. That starts with her comment on the linking of the second to the first line. This must indeed be improved in the interests of care for the elderly. It is very important that this happens. She also rightly stresses the importance of prevention in the care of vulnerable elderly people. If we were to be able to carry out more preventive screenings and to proactively check what is going on, what older people are vulnerable and what we can do about it, we could gain incredibly much quality. This also applies to the important role that practical support for general practitioners can play. I didn't get any signals that there's a very big squeeze in the growth area. The signal Mrs Wolbert is sending, I'll look into it. So I did not get that signal myself, but I will certainly raise it in my conversation with the LHV and Health Insurance Agency Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u107	The burden on general practitioners is important, because we must, of course, use all the growth space available. Has the Secretary of State also received the signal that GPs and municipalities do not always make good use of the space at the GGD? In the context of public health care, the GGD is precisely a task for older people's policies. Oddly enough, I don't see that combination coming along that often. Is that just my impression or can the Secretary of State confirm this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u108	I think I can confirm that impression. Where municipalities and, for example, general practitioners are very well aware of each other's possibilities and impossibilities, you can see it growing. In municipalities where, for example, first-line centres are traditionally used to working very well with the municipality and therefore also know what the municipality has to offer, it gets going very well. However, the link between health care in the first line and the GGD is still in its infancy. Sometimes it goes very well, for example because people know each other well. But sometimes it doesn't go well enough, because there are opportunities left. As we know, I have recently sent a letter to the Chamber about the future of the health services. I want to talk not only about the basic package, but above all about the role that the health services could play in youth care, as well as in the area of population analysis, including in the area of care for the elderly. That's very important. I want to develop this together with the GGDs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u109	GGD's always had the "count job," as I always call it, the registration job. It has been Agnes Kant of the SP who has added the elderly care section in public health care to the law. That's what matters to me. If we make such agreements with each other, I think that we should stick to them. What further possibilities does the Secretary of State have to bring this aspect to the fore, either in consultation with the UNG or with the GGDs, and to develop more active policies there? This is just a missed opportunity and that is a pity. The budget is there, and it's not being implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u110	I agree with Mrs Wolbert. By the way, it belongs to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u111	But we made that law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u112	Sure. But they can say to their own organizations: how are we going to deploy you in that field? I assume that we will have a further debate on the future of the GDPs, not only in terms of the basic tasks, but in particular in terms of their role in this area. I support Mrs Wolbert's comment, and I would like to do everything in my power to ensure that the role of the health services in this area is strengthened. I would like to develop this further together with the VNG. Mr Van 't Wout rightly pointed out that there are now very good examples, such as TogetherOud in the North, which not only give us lessons about how care can be organized at home in cooperation with many disciplines, but also make us think about what that means for funding and funding across the systems. He will raise that point more often. We have already had an exchange of views on how the renewal agenda should look like long-term care. His point should really be a part of this: how do we ensure that funding and funding incentives are such as to encourage this cooperation and not just be financed and financed separately from each other? I feel very motivated in that. Mr Van 't Wout knows from me that we are moving in the same direction in this renewal agenda to ensure that this issue remains high on the agenda and that we come up with solutions to this. I have already made a number of comments about the general practitioner's care. Mrs Dijkstra also asked me what is in the progress reports and what analyses we make of how municipalities implement their policies. We naturally have the evaluation at the request of D66. It's a little early. Very recently, the Chamber received a letter from me proposing progress reports on the two decentralisations, youth and long-term care. It states what reports I intend to produce for this purpose and what frequency we can meet at. For the April report, I am thinking in any case of the following topics: the use of customer support; the application of the criteria of indication in the law; access to municipal facilities, including the functioning of the prescribed research, call the kitchen tables; monitoring of the changing roles of parties, CIZ and healthcare agencies; the area for professionals; cooperation between municipalities and insurers; and the deployment of district teams. I mentioned a few topics that I intend to include in the first report. I think it is such a good answer to the questions put by Mrs Dijkstra on this point. If that is not the case, then we can talk about it. Mrs Dijkstra also asked me what the state of play was with regard to reporting at the hotline. During the period from 1 January 2015 to 23 January 2015, 877 calls were received at the central information point, which mainly dealt with transitional rights and personal budgets. 103 e-mails went to the information point. There are 64 reports at the window of people who didn't know where they ended up. A relatively large number of questions have also been asked about the Youth Act and its pgbs. It's a quiet picture in itself, but I think it's far too early for conclusions. We are now three weeks in January. Let us keep the ten fingers on the wrist. Mrs Dijkstra has also asked a number of questions about personal budgets. We have discussed how we deal with each other over the past period. As you know, we agreed that I would send a letter to the Chamber on 2 February 2015, indicating the state of play and the solutions offered. You met each other on whether there should be a debate. We should not now use this debate to repeat it as it were. Mrs Dijkstra also asked me what was the outcome of the consultation with Per Recht. That meeting took place today. The monthly payments for people who had sent in their things before 1 January 2015 have now been made. People who have sent their stuff after 1 January 2015 can be paid in early February. Declarations may also be made. We have agreed that Per Recht and SVB jointly provide tailor-made services for those people who say that they have, for whatever reason, not received enough information or cannot see how their health care contracts are working. For them, special customization is provided, whereby Per Recht and SVB together increase in the communication to the budget holders. That's what I can say right now. At the request of the Chamber, on 2 February 2015, I will elaborate on the state of play and the solutions that have been offered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u113	I understand the Secretary of State says this. In this way it has always been impossible to have a debate on personal budgets at all. There is always a reference to letters that are still coming. The big point, however, is that there is a great deal of unrest among pgb-holders and that communication is not good at all. People don't know what they're up to. I received an e-mail yesterday from someone who has been told that the contracts have disappeared or that they are not good and that they will be called back in three days. The lady says if I don't get a call back in three days, it's weekend again, and what's gonna happen? This is not one case, there are countless. I find it very difficult to digest the fact that we are constantly delaying because there are still answers to be given. I would like to know how communication is going to get going, so that people know these things. I asked the Secretary of State in my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u114	Members of Parliament have taken decisions on when to hold a debate and when to receive a letter. It's a deal, and I'm sticking to it. Moreover, there have been discussions today on the three points we are discussing. Payments have been made. People who submitted their data too late will also be paid as soon as possible. Declarations can be made and communication to the people is made, together with SVB, VNG and Per Balance, also for custom cases. I think I'll do everything I can to make sure it goes well. That doesn't mean everyone's happy. I happen to have looked at the care contracts from time to time myself. I can assure you that I can imagine that sometimes there are health insurance contracts that do not even contain what happens and which do not even have a bank number on them. That means sometimes things are sent back to find out exactly what's going on. So let us not go into this case. I note that we agreed when we debate with the Chamber on the basis of the state of play letter. I also note that we have made good agreements with Per Balance and the SVB to ensure that not only payments are going to go well, but that communication to those involved is also getting a bit sharper.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u115	We are talking tonight about caring for vulnerable elderly people. Some of these people get their care through a pgb. This also saves a lot of healthcare costs, for example because children take care of their parents, or sometimes take their parents home, and they are compensated through a pgb. Payments to people living in small-scale residential establishments may in some cases not take place until the end of February. That's what people are so worried about. How can they continue to pay for their care in this way? I still do not hear the Secretary of State guarantee that these people will receive the payments at the beginning of February.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u116	I have just mentioned the agreements that have been made on this subject today. One of these agreements is that the payments that would take place per month have indeed taken place. A number of people have just been paid; that's thousands. The people who sent their things later than January 1st will also be paid. This can also take place at the beginning of February. In accordance with the rules and arrangements, people can also declare after that period, depending on the agreed period. These payments will also take place at the beginning of February. That's the deal. I can imagine people saying: yes, all nice, those appointments, but can I see it too? I am very aware of the fact that people are not reassured until payments have been made. The payments also took place yesterday, as I noted. Those are the agreements we have made. I have agreed with the Chamber to send another letter on the precise state of affairs and the arrangements that have been made. Finally, Mrs Dijkstra asked whether there were sufficient specialists in old age medicine. That's a good question. I do not have the impression that there are not enough specialists, but the question is whether there will be enough new people from the training. It is good that we are also discussing whether specialists should be working not only in institutions but also outside institutions. Perhaps in the future we will need more specialists in old age medicine. That's why I'm going to talk to the family doctor's association and Verenso about the future of the profession. We can see that in the current situation there are sufficient specialists in old age medicine, but that does not mean that this is also the case in the future. We must look at the training and the numbers in view of what is needed in the future, given our changing society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u117	The Secretary of State says that there are now enough specialists in old age medicine. I've also asked if there are enough district nurses.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u118	There is no clear answer to that question. On the basis of the current situation, you might conclude that there are sufficient, but I think that the answer to this question is different in the future. The demand for specialists is likely to increase. This could also apply to the demand for district nurses. In the neighbourhood nurses there is an issue that there are now all district nurses, but that the demand may rise if they are allowed to dictate themselves. That is why I have agreed with the professional group, the trainers and the providers to look very closely at how the demand for community care is developing, so that we can see what impact this should have on training. So my answer is: yes, perhaps now, but not in the future. That is exactly why I go into consultation with the profession to see what this means.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u119	I hear from the Secretary of State only one perhaps, while we have looked very much at the role of district nurses in the run-up to decentralisation and the changes in care. At that time, we found that in the short term, you need far more district nurses than there are now. My question is what it's like right now. Do I hear the Secretary of State say that there are enough district nurses at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u120	Compared to the situation we had, not much has changed. The funding system has changed and we have given an impetus to community nursing, because we believe that there should be more neighbourhood nurses. There's a judgment in that, too. Technically speaking, I can say that there are plenty of district nurses, given the system we had, but I want more to come. That is why the cabinet has allocated extra money to it. There is also a question of how the need for care in the neighbourhood is developing in the future. We don't know that yet, because there's a new indication, people are getting older and there might be other care questions. This has consequences for the need for district nurses. That is why I stick to my nuanced answer: the current situation does not differ so much from the past, we want more district nurses to come and we still have to look at how the healthcare question is developing, because it may require more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u121	There is still the possibility of a second term. I call Mrs Gerbrands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u122	Mr. Chairman. The funding of the nursing homes stopped in 2013. In March 2014, when general practitioners find that there is a problem, because some people are no longer eligible for a nursing home, but can no longer stay at home, they do so on the basis of a year's experience. This debate is therefore not superfluous. I've asked the Secretary of State to take another look at the group of people falling apart. I did not receive a satisfactory answer. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that people's well-being should be central;]] [[believes that the current policy puts a group between shore and ship, i.e. older people who are too good for the Wlz, but are not able to live independently at home;]] [[calls on the government to focus on the well-being of this group and to provide an appropriate solution in the short term,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gerbrands and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u123	Since the Chamber is so fond of the pardon and we already have the general's pardon and the children's pardon, I'd like to make the call to consider this motion as the elderly pardon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u124	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State to ask him if he's been on duty. I see him shaking no. Then I'm gonna explain something. As a military officer, I've learned that before an operation you can make another beautiful plan of attack, where everything is beautifully on paper, but sometimes you can throw everything in the trash when you start. After all, you have to look at the practice in which changes take place and decide how to respond to them. It's often the same with laws. A law can be fantastic, but the practice is often more uncomfortable. The kitchen table conversation is not always easy and vulnerable elderly people do not always fit in the mold of the CIZ. Therefore it is important to have good communication between the people, for example between the Centre's indications care and the general practitioners. If a GP reports to the CIZ, will he be listened to? What happens if he indicates that while it is effective to let someone live at home, the circumstances in his area are different and he is seriously concerned? The second is the discussion we have had about independent customer support for people who do not receive care from the municipality or who would like to have care. That support is extremely important. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State in the first quarterly report how much customer support there is and whether it is available and above all independent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u125	Mr. Chairman. "For fifteen years, I have come to a man who is ill-defended and visually impaired. Fifteen years I've been helping him do the housework. As of January 1st, I can't be with him anymore. He's only got one hour of help and that's done by a flex force. He told me he'd rather be dead." Here's what I hear. This is the practice of people behind the door. But if I ask the Secretary of State about this, he says: what are you asking, what kind of question is that? However, that is the question that many elderly people are asking: can we still be there? What's the Secretary of State's answer to that question? What exactly is his goal with the austerity first? How much isolation, how many elderly, how many people who have been neglected? [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the cabinet would save 19,000 jobs in home care by 1 January 2015 with the use of the household aid allowance;]] [[having noted that more than 9,000 redundancies have been made on the counter and few jobs have been saved in home care so far;]] [[Considering that the bureaucratic burden and the strict criteria of the household aid payment are a high threshold for municipalities to maintain paid employment in home care;]] [[calls on the Government to set up the household aid allowance budget in such a way that municipalities can also use this supplement to prevent redundancies of home-care workers as an employed person,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the specialists in care for the elderly have sent out an emergency signal about care for the elderly;]] [[noting that in a 2013 report on general practitioners and care for the elderly, the SP sent out an emergency signal about care for the elderly;]] [[calls on the government, among general practitioners, to identify the changes they are facing in their care of the people at home and to send this along with the promised progress report on decentralisation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-12]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u126	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his answers. It is good to hear from the Secretary of State that the VNG is talking to client organisations to see if skipping kitchen tables can be prevented. I had prepared a motion on this, but I'm keeping it to myself now. On the issue of the shortage of municipalities, as noted by the COELO, the Secretary of State says he keeps his finger on the pulse. In order to support him, I will table the next motion with Mrs Gerbrands. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas research institute COELO notes that municipalities are moving towards a joint deficit of 4.8 billion in 2018;]] [[whereas municipal expenditure has been found to increase by 14% while revenue increases by only 9%;]] [[Whereas municipalities are increasingly required to carry out tasks with reduced budgets;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the threat of a billion deficit does not have an unacceptable impact on the quality and availability of facilities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol and Mr Gerbrands. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u127	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering all the first-term questions. I still have a motion on two points. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that health insurers have the task of purchasing case management dementia;]] [[noting that administrative arrangements have been made with health insurers on how existing chains can be maintained;]] [[Whereas more and more dementia patients are losing their trusted case manager and more and more case managers are losing their jobs;]] [[calls on the government to engage with health insurers and to point out to them the existing standard of care Dementia, which means that the case managers specifically trained to optimally guide this vulnerable group of patients can be deployed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Bruins Slot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u128	Then my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that cooperation between municipalities and health insurers is necessary in order to achieve an integrated policy on care and support;]] [[Whereas it is very important that clients are directly targeted by municipalities and quickly receive support when returning to their homes from an in-house structured environment;]] [[Calls on the Government to explicitly address cooperation between health insurers and municipalities in the progress report on the Wmo, in particular where there is support for clients moving back home from an in-house environment;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u129	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the first-term response. The Labour Party agrees with the Secretary of State that the practice in the municipalities should now take shape and that we should take the time to see how it lands. The Labour Party says one thing about this, namely that we must keep our finger on the pulse. In the words of the Secretary of State, that is not one finger, but actually all fingers. That's what I hear. I am also pleased with the letter on case management dementia. I hear the Secretary of State promise that he will also take care standards with him. I'm happy about that. In the answers of the Secretary of State, I always hear the confidence in professionals. That is what I hear in the way the Secretary of State looks at reality and implementation. I agree with that and I would like to thank him for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u130	Mr. Van't Wout has waived his term. I give the floor to Mrs Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u131	Mr. Chairman. I would like to endorse what has been said about case management dementia. It is very important that we get a clear view of this and that the Secretary of State will make an effort to do so. I'd like to come back to the pgbs. The Secretary of State says the payment is now settled. I'd still like to hear from him about those people whose contracts have disappeared. He was talking about unclear contracts, but there's just no contracts. People have sent out their contracts a thousand times. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether pgb-holders are getting the money this week to pay their caregivers, and whether the monthly payments have indeed all been made. Because I hear very different sounds. I won't table a motion on the pgb's right now. I hope we can get support for a debate when the Secretary of State's letter arrives. I expect that we will be able to exchange a great deal of information on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u132	I do not quite understand Mrs Dijkstra. In my view, it is not just the payment of monthly wages, but the characteristic of the pgb is that it is flexible hours, with flexible rates. I think there is a very large group that is not covered by this either. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u133	That's right. I mentioned two different subjects. On the one hand, I mentioned that group, and on the other hand, the monthly payments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u134	At 10:55 p.m., we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u135	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I come to a number of questions. Mrs. Bruins Slot drew from her military experience with attack plans. I may have that experience a little less, although I do have some experience with it, but I tell her that sometimes. I have always said in the decentralisation of long-term care and youth care that it is not just about laws and that it is not just about agreements that we make with each other about how they are going to go about, but about how we are going to deal with things that we will then come across and how we are going to solve them. I would remind you that we have done quite a bit, especially in the past period. We have looked at the indications and the Wlz-indicables. We have looked at how we should deal with softening. We've been looking into the housekeeping allowance. We have looked at the social insurance bank and some adjustments. We have not said 'these are the rules and that is how we should apply them' over the past period, but we have looked on all fronts, in consultation with the Chamber, where adjustments are needed to make the law work for people. We have really done what we need to do. We shall continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u136	This is a good kick-off from the Secretary of State. We can't change the law now. There is now a need for a different form of flexibility. We have to deal with a practice that often does not comply with rules, sometimes with very good reasons. My question to the Secretary of State is a very open question, namely: is he going to look at how we can adapt a sleeve to it with the same resolving attitude? I notice in the answer today that he keeps taking back on the law. That is good, but we will increasingly see that practice does not comply with the law on a number of points.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u137	The short answer is yes. The longer answer is that you can't blame a secretary of state for pointing out the law. We didn't make them for nothing. Practice will determine to what extent that law works, including in the eyes of the people. I want to keep taking that attitude. Mrs. Bruins Slot specifically asked if the GPs are with the CIZ. Are they listening? Yeah, clients apply for admission. You can do that through the GP. General practitioners can provide their motivations. That is also what happens in practice. If the client does not belong to the Wlz, there should be an appropriate provision. That is precisely what we have explicitly regulated in the connection between the Wmo and the Wlz. Her second question was whether I would like to include the availability of independent customer support in the quarterly report. I'd be happy to include that in that report. Mrs Wolbert pointed out the importance of case manager dementia in healthcare standards. I will draw this to the attention of the parties dealing with it once again. By the way, I have no signals that this is about the standard of care. I think that not so much case management as those who do it is a point of discussion with healthcare providers in some cases. But it's a good thing she's pointing that out again. Mrs Wolbert spoke of an attitude in which the fingers are held on the wrist. She'll hear about that regularly. Mrs Dijkstra had another question about the personal budgets. Of course, we are not just looking at monthly payments. If anything's been filed, we'll see if they've been paid. That happened this week. If people have submitted this later, it will be done at the beginning of February. From that moment on, the declarations will also start to run. In cases where people do not know about their care contract, a customized solution is set separately with Per Balance. But I'm gonna write all that in that letter. Then the Chamber can judge on that basis whether all that is good enough. Then I'll come to the motions. In the Gerbrands/Krol motion on part No. 11 it is found that a group falls between shore and ship. It asks that the well-being of the group that does not have access to the Wlz should continue to be central. I agree, but that is what we have arranged with each other. We have arranged that there should be appropriate facilities for people living at home and that there should be provision in the Wlz if it is no longer at home. That's the system we came up with. That is also important, because there is such a connection between the two laws. Care and support in the home situation is there by the Wmo. If it doesn't go home any longer, there's access to the Wlz. Of course, this will be based on individual assessments. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. In the Leijten motion on part No. A comment is made on the budget for domestic aid. The budget for the household aid allowance is intended, among other things, to maintain regular jobs where there is a risk of job losses due to the decline in domestic aid. I think it is far too early to judge whether that works or not. I told you, we're in the third week of January. That is why I do not wish to change this arrangement. So I'm deceiving the motion. In the Leijten motion on part No. 13 I am asked to take stock of the changes the general practitioners have to deal with and to send this with the promised progress report on decentralisation. I have said that I want to monitor the changes in general care with the LHV and the NIVEL. We then look at the patients and vulnerable groups who end up on the path of the general practitioner. Could we meet each other? I promised a separate monitor on it. I think he'll be ready in May. It would be useful to send him with the progress report on decentralisation. I think it's okay if this is a separate report. If Mrs Leijten can go along with that, I would like to leave this motion to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u138	We get so many monitors and investigations, and that's a bit of a long-term job. The Secretary of State is going to send us an enormous amount in April in the progress report. I am really convinced that it will be possible as early as April if he asks a few questions with the National General Medical Association. For example, we know what the changes are in general practice and in the practice of the lives of older people and other people. When it comes to May, I already know that we will not talk about this until after the summer. The Secretary of State says everything's gonna be okay. Everything's gonna be okay. If he stands for his policy, can't he just say, "I'll bring it up?"
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u139	I sincerely regret this. We agree that we want to keep a close eye on the changes in general practitioners' practice due to an ageing society, other care questions and longer living at home. We also want to do this for other subjects, but let's focus on the general practitioner's practice. What does it mean? I'm talking to the LHV and the NIVEL to set up a separate monitor to make sure we get very good information about it. It's also forward-looking. We're gonna see what happens. That's what we're meeting right now. We need to finish, but I expect that report to be available in May. What's the problem with saying: we're going to do that, we're going to agree on it together and we're going to look very closely at the general practitioner's practice and the future? I shall then proceed with Mrs Leijten's motion. And then she allows me to see with the LHV and the NIVEL how best to do that. I expect it to be about ready in May. I thought it was a very generous commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u140	I want to know what the consequences are at home. They see the doctors. About monitoring what happens in GP practice, I say: fine, go ahead. When I made a report in 2013, I sent a question to more than 1,000 GPs on Thursday. On Monday, a quarter of them had responded. The Secretary of State says he wants to know because he's convinced he's doing the right thing with his policy. He's been explaining that all night. I'm sure he'll just be able to ask the GPs what's going on with the elderly at home. If the Secretary of State is not willing to do so, the SP will do it. The Secretary of State will certainly ignore that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u141	Then I'm gonna have to change the verdict. I thought I made a proposal to do it. If Mrs Leijten does not appreciate it, that is a pity. I will, together with the LHV and the NIVEL, carry out that monitor in order to assess as closely as possible whether the changes have an impact on the general practitioners for the vulnerable elderly. I expect that report to be ready in May. It is a pity, but then we will not be able to reach agreement on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u142	The motion in part No. 13 is therefore denied?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u143	Then I'm gonna tell her off. In the motion in part No. 14 says Mr Krol that a research institute has said that we are heading for a deficit of 4.8 billion and that municipal expenditure is rising faster than revenue. Those are all assumptions that I'm leaving on behalf of the investigating agency. I do not think it is right to speak of a billion-dollar threat and unacceptable consequences. That is why I would like to discourage the motion. In the motion in part No. Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Bruins Slot asked the government to speak to health insurers and to point out to them the existing standard of care dementia. Then it comes: "which means that the case managers specifically trained [...] can be deployed." I think it's our job to make sure that good case managers are bought in. I have already promised to talk to the health insurance companies to ensure that we do not cause accidents in the transition year 2015, on the road to more structural funding. So I do not want to comment on who should do it, but I do think it should be done, that it should be done according to standards and that it should be done with caution. I have made a number of commitments on this. I would like to suggest to the applicant that this motion should be retained pending the letter I have promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u144	A request, Mrs. Thick-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u145	I will consider the request of the Secretary of State. However, I would like to comment on the case managers explicitly appointed in the motion. I would like to point out that it is a separate subject. People are trained to act within the standard of care dementia, with their knowledge, their expertise. I see in practice that these people are getting fired. I'm so scared that people are getting fired right now. If we want to make structural arrangements next year, those people will be gone. I don't think we're that far from each other at all. If I say this to the Secretary of State, he might be willing to change his judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u146	I'm a little hesitant. I think we are very much in agreement. I have already promised to conduct this consultation, bearing in mind that there is expertise that we must not lose unnecessarily, in case we need it very much again. I think it goes too far to say that this means that in all cases existing case managers can work in the same way. Sometimes this is done by neighbourhood nurses. There must be a standard of care, purchase and case management. Then it can be carried out in different ways. Perhaps it is best if you give me the opportunity to talk to the health insurance companies first; then you can see if you think that is sufficient guarantee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u147	Is that a request to hold the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u148	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u149	Mrs Dik-Faber, what is your answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u150	I'll think about it, but I still have a question about this. Case managers dementia is dismissed and the task is laid down by district nurses, who have a much wider range of tasks. Shouldn't the Secretary of State be worried about that? I can sense some concerns, but can't the Secretary of State see the urgency of this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u151	I certainly see this urgency, but I would not say in advance that a district nurse, who also has expertise in dementia, should not or could not do so. There's a bit of my hesitation. However, I have no hesitation about the expertise of case managers, which is very important, especially when it comes to developing chain care dementia. So we do not disagree on that. That's what he's in or that's what others could do. I think it would be a good idea for me to conduct this consultation so that the Chamber can assess the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u152	Now that the motion is not being held, what is your verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u153	Then I would like to discourage her at the moment, given the consultation I have promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u154	Thank you. Motion in part No. 16.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u155	The request in the motion in part No. 16, that is to say, to explicitly address in the progress report Wmo the cooperation between insurers and municipalities, especially when clients move back home from an in-house environment, seems to me to be justified. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-11.u156	I thank the Secretary of State for his presence this evening. We shall vote on the motions for resolutions next Tuesday.
