ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, the Algemeen Dagblad headlined: "Cabinet stimulates longer work and punishes it." The article states that whether or not compulsory further work can be "rewarded" with an additional grip in the pension fund, i.e. through income tax on income combined with the pension allowance. There are some examples in the newspaper that show that this could be thousands of euros. I have the next five questions to the Secretary of State. The first question is: does the Secretary of State agree with 50PLUS that the last few years have become very unclear? There may be different dates for the entry into force of pensions and a different AOW date, with all the tax consequences. The second question is: does the Secretary of State share the view that this may lead to undesirable heavier taxation of the pension already paid through income tax if it continues to work for longer? The third question concerns the following. According to the Secretary of State, according to the article of the Algemeen Dagblad, employees still have the possibility to suspend their supplementary pension until the AOW-date. Since 1 April I can tell you from my own experience that there are some very wrong communications about this. What will the Secretary of State do to improve that? I come to the fourth question. Unemployed persons do not have the possibility to postpone the supplementary pension due to the statutory requirement. They are thus automatically threatening to give up a large part of their income. They'll have to interpenerate on their pension rights. They may be reduced to unemployment or welfare benefits and may lose rent and care payments. Pension money is not then used as a pension provision, but is intended for that purpose. What is the Secretary of State going to do to meet this vulnerable group? Finally, the Secretary of State states that he recognizes the problem, but also indicates that he still has to write the bill for harmonising pension dates. Couldn't the Secretary of State have seen that problem coming? What is she going to do to deal with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Five questions have been put by Mr Krol. The first question is whether I agree with Mr Krol that the last years of work of people in the Netherlands can be unclear when it comes to synchronising the data for AOW, retirement and dismissal. The Chamber adopted a motion calling on the government to consult with the social partners, since they are ultimately responsible and to come forward with proposals to resolve this problem. I'm in agreement with the social partners. I would also like to go into consultation with insurance companies, because of course they have a role to play in this. I will inform the Chamber of the results of the consultations. Many pension schemes already have the possibility of postponing the pension until the age of AOW. For a lot of people in the Netherlands, for the most part, the problem is tackled. Mr Krol points to a smaller part. Nevertheless, this needs to be dealt with. The second question is: is there a heavier tax issue? That's not new, because it's always been. If you brought your pension forward and I took the fourth question right away. If you had an unemployment benefit, you could already get up to 70% of the last wage earned and the pension was deducted from the WW benefit. So it is not new, but this too is the subject of discussion with the social partners. I'll come to communications now. Mr Krol says that workers can suspend. As far as communication is concerned, the Court has already agreed, on the basis of the new rules governing the communication of pensions, that the pension administrator should inform the members in a more timely manner. The communication pension funds bill is now in the First Chamber of the States General. If he also agrees, fund manager will have to do so by law. As far as harmonization is concerned, I also read it in the newspaper. I have promised the Chamber that I will conclave with the social partners. I said: should it be necessary to amend the law after my discussion with the social partners, we will of course begin to do so. That's different from what's in the paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-5.u3	I hear the Secretary of State say that she is in consultation with the social partners and with insurers. We would, of course, like to know what will come out of it and when we will hear about it. Many pension funds already have a possibility, but this does not apply to all pension funds. How is the Secretary of State going to encourage pension funds, where it is not yet possible, to go along with this? We have adopted a motion here in the Chamber stating that communication should be made more timely, but that is not yet the case for the people who are suffering from it. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure in the meantime that these people don't fall apart?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-5.u4	I expect to be able to draw a conclusion to my discussions with the social partners before the summer. I would, of course, like to inform the House of that. All funds should be able to synchronize the three data. The funds know that the majority of the funds have already done so. I know it's all the rest of it, but something still has to be done. It is very good that this is being brought back to light. As regards the communication that needs to be made more timely: the fact that the Chamber has dealt with the bill means that the funds know what is going to be required of them. I therefore assume that they will now take this on a firm footing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-5.u5	On 5 December 2012 it was decided to temporarily approve in certain cases the non-compliance with the statutory requirement. These were ex-workers who were entitled to unemployment benefit, pre-retirement benefit or other benefits, and were unable to meet the continued requirement to allow for the suspension of supplementary pensions. The scheme applies only to ex-workers born before 1950. The scheme ran until 31 March this year. 50PLUS believes that such a scheme should also apply to people who were subsequently born and who may get into trouble by pushing forward the AOW date. Is the Secretary of State prepared to consider that exception for them as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-5.u6	Of course, the rule on the legal requirement is something for my colleague in the Treasury. I therefore ask Mr Krol to raise it with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-5.u7	Perhaps the Secretary of State would like to pass it on to the colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-5.u8	Of course, I can always do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-5.u9	Then it would also be nice if your colleague would inform the Chamber about the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-5.u10	I think it would be wise to cut it here in the Chamber. So I can pass on the request. Edoch, I can't tell you when an answer will come.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-5.u11	My group also welcomes Mr Krol's questions. There really is a serious problem when it comes to those entry dates. I have two questions for the Secretary of State. It is a motion tabled by both the CDA and the Labour Party, by Mr Omtzigt and myself. When can we look at the results of the consultations? As far as the need for further work is concerned, I would like to welcome Mr Krol to speed it up very quickly, if necessary in a quick debate or general consultation, in order to ensure that it is extended. It can be a solution to many problems. It's about bringing together AOW's dates, retirement and dismissal as much as possible. That's a big good for a lot of people retiring.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-5.u12	In her first question, Mrs Vermeij refers to the Omtzigt/Vermeij motion. I have already promised to inform the Chamber of the results of the consultations before the summer. In reply to Mrs Vermeij's second question, I will look together with the Secretary of State for Finance to see if there can be an extension and, if so, when that could be included. I personally believe that this is very important and I would like to undertake to inform the Chamber together with my colleague in the finance department.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-5.u13	Thank you for the final commitment. Perhaps that information can be sent to the Chamber by 15 May, then we can talk about it between the May recess and the summer recess and perhaps find a solution. We have always talked about pension funds here, and rightly so, but they are already in the process. The Secretary of State mentioned in a clause a commitment by her colleague Asscher that he would also talk to insurance companies. A lot of insurance companies start on end-of-term policy, so 65 years. Then you fall into the high tax rate and you explicitly pay AOW premium on your pension. That saves about 18%, 19% taxes and social security contributions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-5.u14	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-5.u15	That was never supposed to happen. When will the consultation with the insurers be concluded? Is the Secretary of State prepared to come up with additional legislation if insurers do not spontaneously offer to convert all these policies on request, so that they do not start paying out until the legal AOW age begins?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-5.u16	This is a like-dan question from Mr Omtzigt. I have just said that I want to talk to the insurers, just as I do with the social partners, because I too recognise this problem. I very much intend to inform the Chamber of that when I have come to results. Then, of course, we must look together again to see whether additional legislation is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-5.u17	In fact, we are talking here about the flexibilisation of pension benefits. This also means that people may or may not be able to decide whether or not they want to take up their pension sooner or later. The Secretary of State rightly states that a number of pension funds, the majority of pension funds, do so. Would it not be appropriate, perhaps also in anticipation of communication, to give an overview of which pension funds give such flexibility at the moment and which not yet? This also shows where additional attention and action are needed, including from the pension authorities, to make this flexibility possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-5.u18	I cannot answer Mr Klein's question exhaustively. However, he brings me to the answer that I will understand myself with the Pension Federation. I will ask her to look again very carefully at how she can further stimulate pension funds on her own website in order to achieve this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-5.u19	Mr Krol, you, too, allow me to follow up on your own question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-5.u20	Now that we do not get all the answers we would have liked to hear, I would suggest that we ask for a debate at work later...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-5.u21	Question Time is not for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-5.u22	... or at least a letter, and if that letter doesn't come, then perhaps a request for a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-5.u23	I think the Secretary of State has already agreed to that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-5.u24	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I have really done my utmost to answer all the questions adequately, so I am a little surprised that Mr Krol is bringing this up. I await a possible outcome of the arrangement of work. I hope I have replied exhaustively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-5.u25	Thank you for your reply and thank you for coming to the Chamber.
