ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u1	We are going to start with the first-term reply from the cabinet, but first I would like to discuss some household announcements with the Chamber. We start 45 minutes later than planned. So we're all gonna try that, I'm gonna say that, while I'm looking around hard to get into that. I see there is laughter; that is not allowed. So we're gonna try this. I appeal to all of you. A debate is fine. Nor am I going to limit the interruptions in terms of 'in two', because if there is no answer, I find that faint. I'll keep the order, though. If things slow down unnecessarily, I will take radical measures. I see that this has your approval. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u2	I would ask you to take into account the fact that a large number of questions have already been answered in writing. Although the internet was out, this written reply came to you around 3 p.m. I say that Mr De Roon of the PVV must attend an important other committee at the same time. That is still impossible, even for Mr De Roon. He is therefore going to commute; he will occasionally and occasionally not be there, but the debate is followed by staff. In the context of rapid operation, I propose to wait as much time as possible with interrupting until there is a natural moment to do short and clear interruptions. I'm not gonna do it all by cubes, because that's just so rigid. I see you agree with me on all this. I am in agreement with that. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the House of Representatives for their contribution in the first term. Of course, it was marked by the terrible attacks in Paris, but also those in Sinai and Lebanon. Hundreds of innocent civilians have been killed and murdered by a nihilistic, apocalyptic group of people who, nevertheless, have expanded the battlefield further and who want to touch and destroy our way of life in Europe as well. Understandable fear and defeat are the result, but also action and solidarity. There is, also from this Chamber, a justified call for a cold-blooded and effective response. The Dutch Government is also in favour of this. The Chamber also held a debate with the government this afternoon on a number of issues relating to that terrible attack. Apocalyptic terror seeks to create fear and division, but there are more of us, and it is now time to react cold-bloodedly and effectively. However, that has to be considered. It is also important to realise that what has happened in Paris and what is happening to us now is not a natural phenomenon or whimsical fate. Our response to this is not merely resistance in military action, diplomatic action, legal action, repression and prevention; I shall come back to this later because it is about thinking and doing. At the core, it is about defending our values with self-confidence and not letting us play apart: Muslim and non-Muslim countries, Muslim and non-Muslim, asylum seekers and host countries, France and other European countries. At times like this, the Netherlands and international cooperation must prove themselves to the best of their ability. That is also at the heart of foreign policy. Only if we, as allies, implement an effective and action-oriented agenda, without falling into the mistakes of the past, can we protect the population. We may sometimes differ, even in this Parliament, on what exactly is "cold-blooded" and "thought-out," but it is important to stay together as much as possible. I will start the answer with our approach to ISIS and then talk about Syria, with attention to the neighbouring country Turkey. The specific role of Foreign Affairs will then be discussed, as reflected in the strengthening of our diplomacy, the consular work and the Matra programme. After that, human rights will be discussed. I will conclude with a few comments on Russia and Ukraine. ISIS is certainly not the only problem. Think, for example, of the horrors of Assad's barrel bombs. Partly, ISIS is even an expanse of the transformation that we see throughout the Middle East and the proxy wars that rage there. At least it's a multi-headed monster that can't be beaten with a magic wand. ISIS operates a caliphate, has a territory, provides basic services, has its own revenue, runs justice, has a media apparatus and, to a large extent, a monopoly of violence on its own territory. These quasi-state structures make ISIS different from other terrorist movements, at least unlike the terrorist movements that existed so far, such as Al-Qaida, Al-Shabaab or Boko Haram. The core is limited: a few tens of thousands of soldiers, a large part of whom do not come from their own region. ISIS is attractive because it claims to have a radically different solution to human happiness. ISIS goes back to ideological myths, the Caliphate and the Crusaders 2.0, and talks about an Islamic past that never existed. ISIS does so in the hope that people will choose a future that will never arise. ISIS is more than local at the same time. It is a terrorist organization with aspirations for a regional and even global footprint. See the branches in Libya, Yemen, Egypt and affiliated groups in Nigeria, such as Boko Haram. So ISIS is a multi-headed sample that is geographically dispersed. For several weeks, ISIS has proven its ability to move the front. The attacks in Beirut last week, with more than 40 victims, the attacks against NATO Member States in Ankara and Paris and the attack against Russia, in Sharm el-Sheikh on the Metrojet, show that. You can also see that ISIS, at a time when they may be getting a little close, can change and move the strategy, using frustrations and criminal groups in Europe, for example. I'll get back to you on that. Several groups have asked me if we are at war. The Chamber has discussed this issue extensively today with the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister. I followed all that. I would not like to add so much to that. Since that debate has already been held, we may be able to buy some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u4	It mainly prevents a repetition of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u5	I'll leave it with you for a while. But it doesn't seem to be allowed to do that, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u6	Everyone has every right here. Mr. Knops?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u7	On the contrary, the Minister was quoting very extensively from his interview in the AD. At least I ran into a lot of familiar phrases. I didn't really want to interrupt him, but it's not entirely appropriate to let this subject go all the way. Precisely because the Minister of Foreign Affairs spoke of 'cool-blooded action' and said that we should 'keep our heads' I would like to know his appreciation of the point that 'we are at war'. I asked him the same thing in my first term. We've heard about the Deputy Prime Minister. The Deputy Prime Minister said it wasn't his words. They're spoken on his behalf, but they're not his words. I would also like to know how he views this non-important minister in this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u8	Everyone has seen that ISIS is a direct threat to our security. That threat is so concrete because it is now also victims in the capitals of the European Union. That threat is also so concrete because countrymen travel to commit crimes on the side of ISIS. Because of the great threat to our own security, the Netherlands contributes to the international fight against ISIS. Our F-16s regularly carry out bombings on ISIS targets in Iraq. In this sense, the Netherlands is involved in the armed conflict in Iraq against ISIS, and thus in war with ISIS. The use of the term "war" was also discussed this afternoon. This has no legal or international consequences. Are we talking about a war against Islam? I believe the Prime Minister said this afternoon that it is not a war against Islam. He just distanced himself from that. ISIS is the enemy that must be fought, with both military and non-military means.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u9	The way in which the Minister responds to my interruption, from the paper, shows that this has been well thought out. I am also very much in favour of unity of cabinet policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u10	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u11	I would like to ask the Foreign Minister whether he feels more related to the position of Deputy Prime Minister Asscher when it comes to the choice of words, or to the Prime Minister's?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u12	I believe that Mr Knops was in the same debate. I have watched television and followed the debate very well. There was very clear talk of unity of cabinet policy. I understand that Mr Knops would like to try it again with me, but I say it exactly as it is. If we are in an armed conflict and ISIS is being bombed, there is, of course, the need to show that we are in 'war', as it is popularly called. We also know that when it comes to constitutional provisions or international law, this has a specific meaning. I have just said that it is always a question of military and non-military resources. I think the Deputy Prime Minister said the same thing. Actually, that's all I can say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u13	I almost tend to be even stricter with the Foreign Minister in the Chamber now than with the Prime Minister, who spoke in very general terms after the terrible attack. He also referred to international law. Is it not true that, for the sake of international law, in Article 96 of the Constitution, we have the provision that the Kingdom can only be declared at war with the express consent of the States-General? This is not something that can be done on a voluntary basis. It is quite clear that this situation is not at issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u14	I think that's right. I agree with Mr Van der Staaij on that point. Several groups have asked me that question. I hope I have answered that sufficiently. At the questions raised by Mr Voordewind, Mr Van Bommel and Mr Sjoerdsma on the appeal by France to Article 42.7, the European assistance clause, I can say the following. This appeal was unanimously supported by the Member States. This support leaves nothing to be desired for clarity. That is precisely what France needs in these exceptional circumstances. This is a clear sign of European solidarity and solidarity. It is up to the individual countries themselves to determine how they implement Article 42.7. There are no automatisms. Each country makes its own assessment. So, as Mr Van Bommel suggests, there is no automatism in that request. Of course, I will come back to the question about bombing in Syria. As is well known, the Netherlands is already very much involved in the fight against ISIS. Also in the wider, unstable south flank, the Netherlands puts more than its own weight on the scale. I think that was also the background to the French request. We are currently active in various theatres, both in the Middle East and in various areas where extremism has branched out, as in the Sahel, with Operation Barkhane. In the context of the United Nations MINUSMA mission, we are working indirectly with that operation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u15	I see spokesmen at the interrupting microphones, but I just wanted to wait until you're done with ISIS.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u16	It's gonna be a while. Then I'm gonna move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u17	I shall go first to Mr Voordewind of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u18	This is interesting. There is a request from France that is supported by Europe. But what does that request of the French mean? Is the European Member States being asked to fill gaps that could possibly fall elsewhere, outside the theatre of Iraq and Syria? If so, with what equipment? What is the Netherlands thinking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u19	We have just received that request. In fact, it was an open request to all Member States to either step up support in the fight in Iraq and Syria, or to step up support in other missions, which greatly seize French capabilities, such as in Mali or in the Central African Republic. So there are also elements of backfill. If you are already very active in one country, you also make room to operate in the other country, just to say so, especially if you have few aircraft. The French also have the enormous responsibility they take in the Sahara. It is therefore a general request to the Member States. Of course, the Netherlands will also look into this. Taking into account the possibilities and limitations that the Netherlands has and the fact that the Netherlands is already doing a lot, we will look at how we respond to that request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u20	That...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u21	Wasn't the answer clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u22	No, the answer wasn't quite clear. So there are two scenarios: either we fill gaps elsewhere in the world, or we step up support for operations in Syria and Iraq. Then there is the logical question, regardless of whether we can make it at all with the defence apparatus and with the holes in it: what is the Netherlands thinking of, supporting Iraq and Syria or filling holes elsewhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u23	I cannot answer that now. The request has just come. Nor has it been said: we want to know within 24 hours. The request has been made to all Member States. It is being looked at in the context of the fight we are currently fighting against extremism. As is well known, this is not a short-term struggle but a long-term struggle. The request was made within the framework of the European Union precisely because there are also a number of Member States that are not NATO members. In doing so, Europe shows that it also has its own responsibility. We're all reasonable for that. As I said, it's a general request. It doesn't have a direct binding effect, but as allies, of course, you look at it seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u24	I saw Mr Sjoerdsma at the interrupting microphone, but he refers to Mr Van Bommel of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u25	Article 42.7 of the Treaty on European Union deals with the provision of assistance when a European Member State is attacked. That article also refers to Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations. That is the assumption that it is a question of protecting the Member State itself. However, the Minister refers to conflicts elsewhere in the world: Iraq, Syria, Mali. Is the scope of Article 42.7 so great that the Netherlands can be used far away to protect the Member State France? Is that the scope of this article?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u26	The answer is no. As I have just said, it is not about the use of the Netherlands either. No one can use the Netherlands; we are a sovereign country. If there is an obligation to provide assistance, we are looking, as with all kinds of assistance obligations, at what we can do to help a country that has been the victim of armed aggression. I don't think anyone can make any misunderstandings about that. That armed aggression is complex, it's an octopus. Let's not forget that this octopus has both local roots............................................................................................................................................................ That's what makes it so interesting and complicated. We no longer live in a world where we can say that it is either a state or a non-state actor. It is about aggression that has clearly been committed against an ally in Europe. That ally is asking for assistance and has very general requests for assistance. We're gonna take a look at that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u27	My question may not have been clear enough. The Netherlands, of course, decides for itself. We always keep full command of our own military and our own equipment. It is a question of whether the outcome of the appeal to Article 42.7 can be that the Netherlands will be sending soldiers to Mali, or to Iraq, or to Syria, or anywhere else in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u28	No. There's no obligation to do that somehow. The considerations will always be made on the basis of a Dutch sovereign decision and the review framework that we know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u29	I was not talking about an obligation, but about what could be the de facto result of calling in that article. Can the Netherlands itself say that we are going to act far away to protect France? I do not see it as a protection for France when we are about to act in Mali as a result of the use of this article.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u30	The core of this commitment is that you are doing something not only for France, but precisely because we are all France. In that sense, we have accepted this commitment of assistance. Otherwise we would have said: no, we do not; sorry, that is a French problem. It is a general request, after which the Netherlands sovereign decides what we do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u31	Mr Van Bommel will certainly return to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u32	Mr. Chairman. Several political groups asked whether an attack in Paris led to a different consideration of whether or not to carry out air operations over Syria. I understand that in the light of the terrible events in Paris. The Chamber held a debate on this matter with the Prime Minister this afternoon. I take the same line that was put forward in that debate. First of all, we need to keep our heads down and not make hasty decisions about whether the Netherlands should expand its efforts in Syria. The Prime Minister made the step-by-step approach clear this afternoon. As described in the progress report on the Dutch contribution to the fight against ISIS, the cabinet first wants to have more clarity on a number of elements. First of all, this has to do with the problems of 'deconflicting'. The Russian Federation still sees 80% of the bombings on the moderate opposition, at least according to the Pentagon. A few weeks ago, the United States and Russia agreed at a military level on the modalities of air traffic. One must then think of communication between kites about the use of airspace. There are all kinds of discussions that are political in nature. At the heart of this is the complex problem of ISIS in Syria. That's not a matter of whether you're soft or hard, because that's the problem. Nor is it a political game, as the Prime Minister said this afternoon, or a difference of opinion in the coalition. We have a responsibility to send people out and to do so responsibly and in a way that actually contributes to what we all want, namely an improved situation in Syria, so that ISIS cannot take root there, but is defeated. As the Chamber knows, a political objective is important. We know that a number of problems have not yet been resolved. Who's gonna get on the ground? What exactly is the outcome of these actions if, while a number of countries are then in the same coalition, it is precisely in Vienna that they are in agreement to come together? That is why the American government is now emphasising a ceasefire. You have to have a common starting position in order to be effective. We have learned enough from the past. You should not simply do that in a way where you do not know exactly what is happening on the ground and where you know that there are countries that have different interests; I call Iran and Turkey. The negotiations in Vienna will allow for a more unambiguous position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u33	Mr Knops has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u34	I do not know what the Minister is going to say, of course, but I will allow myself to ask the question now. Nothing is simple in this matter. No one in this room says that. The minister says the cabinet opts for a step-by-step approach. That could be interpreted as an understatement, because it all takes so long, is part of the criticism of a part of the Chamber. There is political support for those who act there, but we do not contribute to it ourselves. We have, perhaps due to the ICT problems, relatively lately received the Minister's answers. We were able to read the AD this morning and it contained a number of responses to questions that we asked yesterday. The Minister says, among other things, that it's all very complicated. He literally says: there are no taboos. It's about bombing over Syria. He also says: I am not ruling anything out, but it does not seem useful to me to go there all mixed up. Can the Minister indicate this problem from an operational point of view? I do not think there is any such problem in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u35	I just said there's a problem with the conflict. The Dutch Government is not convinced of the good agreements that can currently be made in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u36	I note that Syria is very large, that many missions are being carried out by all kinds of countries and that no conflict has yet arisen. So the question is how real this argument is. We have all kinds of modern systems. I would like to touch on the point that the Minister rightly points out the great responsibility of the Chamber when we send people out to certain areas after a proposal from the Cabinet. Even the soldiers we visited in the area at the time said it was very strange. It is one theatre and they carry out bombings in Iraq, while the core of IS is in Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u37	I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u38	That's right. It's coming now. What is the Minister's response to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u39	We're repeating ourselves. You also had a debate with the Prime Minister this afternoon. It is not a question of a fundamental difference of opinion between a number of political groups in the Chamber and the government. Iraq, Syria, Libya or other countries in which ISIS is present may also give rise to a military response. That military response can go from training to bombing. There are all kinds of different possibilities. Everyone knows from the past that bombing, only the air weapon in itself, has very limited value if you do not know at the same time what is happening on the ground. That has taught us every lesson from the past period. The Dutch Government does not intend to fall into a trap because suddenly there is an urgency that is very great, but with a policy that does not contribute to what you want to achieve. For example, there is a difference in the coalition about the position of attacking ISIS. There are differences of opinion between Turkey and Iran. There are several political objectives relating to the use of funding and financial resources. There is an opportunity to bring it closer together. That is also important in any consideration that the government will make. That has nothing to do with slowness or speed, but with thoughtfulness. I would like to point out that the Netherlands is one of the five NATO members who act in Iraq. Apart from France, which does so punctually, in the light of rhetoric, for which I fully understand and also express political support, there is no other European NATO member who has made that choice. The reason for that is exactly the same as with us. That's not because we're weak or because we're afraid to do something, but because the Secretary of Defense and I together have responsibility for broadcasting people and effectiveness. In addition, we have four F-16s. They do extremely good work in Iraq. There is no fundamental problem. I have pointed out that it is militaryly one theatre, but it is politically much more complicated, as has already been discussed a few times. There is now a discussion to jointly achieve a military objective, so that ISIS can actually be defeated. That is what we hope for, and that is not naive hope or waiting for the UN to act. We have exactly the same objective. If you do not bomb now, you will not dare to do so, but we do dare to do so. Our soldiers are at the front of Iraq. They are also widely appreciated. We have no exception. The German and Italian Governments have gone much further than we have. They said they wouldn't. We weigh matters to come to a sensible decision. The Prime Minister has rightly said that we are doing this step by step, depending on the international situation. We have a responsibility to assess everything. As a government, we can do this best ourselves, on the basis of all the military and security political analyses we have. We will, of course, keep the Chamber informed of the consideration that is being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u40	Step by step is always the best approach. That is why I want to go over it step by step with the Minister. There are four conditions set by the Dutch Government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u41	Provided it falls within the rules for an interruption: brief and concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u42	Let's do it. You yourself laid down a number of rules at the beginning, and I will abide by them. The Dutch Government says that there must be agreements on conflict. Did I just hear the Minister acknowledge that these agreements already exist between the US and Russia?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u43	I really have to correct Mr Ten Broeke's question. We have set not so much four conditions as a number of considerations which can play a role in a possible decision to bomb. That should not be seen as a list of conditions, as the Prime Minister said this afternoon, but we are looking at a number of things. It is important in the context of security, if you would like to fly, that there is clarity at the point of conflict. I have just said that we do not have the impression that there are sufficient opportunities to assume that good agreements have been made, but that could happen. I also think it is important that this happens. That's all I can answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u44	I did not say that these would be the only conditions, but there are four conditions in the letter. If you have more or other considerations, you should also mention them in the letter, or else we will simply ask for a new letter. My question about the conflict was very simple. So the minister says there are no agreements on conflict? I thought I just heard him say something else, namely that for a few weeks there have been agreements between the Russians and the Americans, the only air forces that are actually working there. There's about 400 km between Latakia and Raqqa. Are they there or aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u45	I cannot judge the exact content of any deconflict between countries, such as Russia and America, or what is happening with France. The Dutch Government is not involved in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u46	If the Netherlands were to consider air strikes, would the conflict always be a precondition for the targeting procedures that the air force is following? In any case, we do not fly into airspace if there is an enemy or an opponent who puts it at risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u47	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u48	Good. The second point of concern, I should not call it a condition, was about the selection of targets. I would like the Minister to explain this again in the light of Paris. The evaluation letter received the Chamber two weeks ago. It seems the French had no difficulty in selecting their targets. Does the Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u49	Mr Ten Broeke is now walking along a list with me, but target selection is an extremely complicated problem. I am not going to go into exactly what the French have done or have not done. Honestly, I don't know exactly. It's not something that's shared with me every day, but maybe it's with the Secretary of Defense. The point is that a bombing I have already mentioned in this Chamber should lead to a real improvement in the context of a general political situation. I think that's important. I have done it before, but I would also like to point out that the coalition is not yet in a position to clearly pursue certain objectives. As a result, there are large risks and there may also be doubts about the effectiveness of this type of action. Each country must make its own assessment. We shall do so on the basis of the Article 100 procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u50	In the context of the Article 100 procedure, we have agreed to an Article 100 letter. It refers to the effective reduction of ISIS. For example, a training camp for jihadists in Syria could be a goal. Three of the perpetrators of the attacks in Paris have been in Syria once or several times over the past year and have visited such a training camp. According to the Minister, can this be regarded as a legitimate objective?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u51	I really do not intend to hold a discussion with the Chamber tonight on possible targets, should the Dutch Government decide to do so. Then we would sit here as armchair generals together. On the basis of the review framework, the Dutch government is considering location and possible directions that can best strengthen the fight against ISIS.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u52	Your last question, Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u53	Mr President, I only asked the Minister one question yesterday. We did not see that question in the written answer. I admit that we received that written reply at three o'clock. That may have had something to do with today's Internet bugs, but our questions weren't included.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u54	Let me get this straight: that was an Internet problem in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u55	Yeah, but that's not what I'm talking about. I am concerned that I announced this yesterday. They weren't on that answer. So I find it a little strange that the Minister here says that he is not going to go through those points with me. I announced this yesterday. The Minister could have prepared himself for that. It is quite clear that there is no clarity about the target selection. I am now trying to determine what is lacking, but the Minister is avoiding those answers. I'm sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u56	I find it a little complicated to talk about a target selection in the Chamber. We are talking about a major military conflict in which there is a risk with regard to ISIS in many ways. In doing so, we operate very actively in the military. I can only say that there are elements that are important to us, including the selection of targets. With Mr Ten Broeke, I really cannot go through all kinds of possible goals individually. It's about the most effective way to fight ISIS. I have already said that the Dutch Government does not rule anything out. I would like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u57	I see you want to interrupt again, Mr Ten Broeke. I'm sorry, but I've given you more than ample opportunity to do so. Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u58	Mr Ten Broeke and I disagree on the answer to the question: bomb now, yes or no? However, I would like to welcome him in his frustration at the lack of clarity about the precise objections that the Dutch cabinet currently has against bombing. Let me ask Mr Ten Broeke's question rather than the other way round and not the recitals one by one. I ask the Minister what serious considerations he has about not bombarding Syria at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u59	Because at the moment I am not convinced that this makes an effective contribution to the fight against ISIS. I have already put forward that argument a few times, and I thought you yourself put it forward. This has to do with the fact that there is a much bigger problem in Syria: a fragmented state, which ISIS has used. This also has to do with Mr Assad and the huge flows of migrants and asylum seekers, because of the barrel bombs that have been unleashed on the population there. In addition, there are ISIS and the moderate opposition. This means that you are in a complicated game, in which you want to operate as effectively as possible in order to be able to fight ISIS. To do that, you need a coalition of equals. The most important thing that is happening in this area is to ensure that everyone is moving in the same direction in Vienna. That doesn't mean the Assad-Iran-Russia. Thus, through a ceasefire between the moderate opposition and the Assad government, you can achieve a joint and effective fight against ISIS. That's all I care about. It is not at all about a difference of opinion about the fight against ISIS, or about soft or hard. No military instrument is excluded. I believe that I have said before that it is important in this context to look at targets and target selection, where military action might be possible. Of course there are waterbed effects: if you bomb on one side, it has consequences for the rest of the country. And you must also have Turkey on your side, which is often and rightly raised in the Chamber. That's the core of how you can function. Indeed, the battle in Iraq is too slow, but at least there is a political strategy, with the peshmerga and others, to actually beat those idiots on the ground. That's the bottom line. The Dutch Government is open in this, in solidarity with the other countries. I would point out that we are no exception. On the contrary, we play a major role in a number of areas which are essential to improve the situation in Syria. Let me mention some of them. Firstly, there is our active role in bringing these parties together. And again, that's not soft; that's hard. Furthermore, the Netherlands is actually the only country next to the well-known list that is allowed in Vienna to play a role in that respect. The Chamber has supported me in strengthening the moderate opposition; the chance to truly defeat ISIS in the near future. I will also announce today that we will increase the amounts, so we will increase our support for the moderate opposition in Syria. For the rest, of course, we will look at all the options needed to defeat this monster.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u60	I thank the Minister, because this is exactly what I wanted to hear. In fact, the Minister says that there is currently a lack of an effective political strategy, a clear coalition and, as a result, some of the elements that Mr Ten Broeke put forward, including the selection of targets. Mr Ten Broeke is therefore at one end of the discussion, while the Minister still has serious concerns about the political strategy and the coalition itself. At least this is what I am asking the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u61	I understand that you're trying to drive a wedge in the government, but this doesn't make any sense at all. The government is simply looking at a number of criteria, which have already been mentioned: deconflicting, target selection, the places where action will be taken, the impact of action on the likelihood of a solution for Syria itself, and this in the light of the overall security situation, as we always do. On the basis of these criteria, we shall submit our possible decisions. The Prime Minister said the same thing. That seems to me to be the right positioning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u62	Just now I almost intended to walk back to my chair, because I felt that the answer was clear to me and so I didn't have to interrupt. But now it's all getting less clear. I am now trying to say it in my own words, and I would like to hear from the Minister if I understood correctly. The Minister made it clear that the Vienna process is a priority, that its results are important for a possible decision by the government to do something in Syria or not, and that he wants to give it a chance first and therefore does not opt for an all entrance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u63	I would never choose those words. This interpretation may also be politically important. I said that what is happening in Vienna is important to ensure that the coalition can operate effectively against ISIS. I did not say that we should wait until January if it takes a very long time, or if it fails. I did not say that there are no other options in the light of the current security situation. We live in a complicated world. I can't predict it. I can only say that we agree on this together, and I think that we have the task of ensuring that the misery in Syria and Iraq ends. In Iraq, there's a strategy for it. It's starting to come to Syria. That's a good thing. We don't rule out any means. I have just mentioned a number of considerations which, as a whole, may lead to a decision by the Dutch Government. It is not, however, the case that we should only talk about bombing in Syria every day. We're not ruling it out. It's a possibility. If it's effective, we're gonna do it. If we don't, we won't. As the Prime Minister said, we will look at this step by step.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u64	I understand that the Minister wishes to choose his words very carefully and that he does not want to go into one or the other. That is not so much the intention of my interruption either. If, in reasonable terms, there is an opportunity to act effectively against IS, in any way whatsoever, my group fully agrees that we should do so. In this respect, I can very well follow the Minister's reasoning. Let me try one more time: does the Minister agree with me that a short-term decision to intervene in Syria is counterproductive at least at this point in time for the Vienna process?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u65	I really prefer to choose my own words. I'm not gonna say anything about a period. If something happens tomorrow that makes it necessary for Dutch soldiers to be active, the Dutch Government will take a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u66	I wouldn't want to put anyone in a trap tonight. I'll tell you how I understood it, based on two letters we received. I think there is a bit of confusion in that. Mr Ten Broeke rightly mentioned the four points in the progress report on the fight against ISIS. After that, however, at the request of Mr Ten Broeke and myself, we received a letter in which the cabinet again referred to the original Rule 100. The cabinet concludes that it is committed to this political strategy and that it attaches great importance to a common EU approach. One could also call it a common approach to the international community. So these things just live side by side. Let me get this straight. These two points are leading. Of course, the four points in the other letter are perhaps a little more operational.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u67	Sure. Mr Ten Broeke asked, among other things, about the implementation of agreements on conflict. The United States and Russia have made a number of agreements on this. I cannot judge them, but at least they are an important element in a consideration. He also mentioned the target selection. I think this point is also important. As you know, we are doing this extremely carefully in Iraq. The current coalition is currently hitting many targets with very many civilian casualties. That's a risk. That target selection must therefore be carried out properly. That is another element that has been mentioned. Then there are the places where action may be taken. Of course, it's important to choose where you do it right. We have also said that it is about the impact of the action on a chance for a solution for Syria itself. I have pointed out the importance of this. That is not a distraction. That's the essence of solving a problem. You need to get a chance to actually beat ISIS. We all have to look the same way. Anyone following the conflict in Syria knows that this is not yet the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u68	For me, it is now perfectly clear. I'd like that. Then there is the question of exactly how the Minister sees the current progress. But maybe he'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u69	Yeah, I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u70	We'll get to that in a minute. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Bontes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u71	I don't think the Minister's story is clear. I can't tie a rope to it. Let's face it, four F-16s don't force a political solution. That is not the point, however. It's about destroying every guerrilla camp or training camp in ISIS that you can destroy. You can do that with the four F-16s. You've got to take that chance. I feel like the Minister is blocking this just because he doesn't want to. He just doesn't like it. The arguments do not make any sense at all. There are military agreements to be made about who flies where. With four F-16s, you can handle a training camp. Now nothing's happening. Nor is it for anyone to explain that you are bombing in Iraq and not in Syria. It just can't be explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u72	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u73	My question is whether the Minister will respond to this. I think he is carrying out his own agenda here, because the Minister of Defence has said that there are no more obstacles. I heard the Minister say that himself. What's the Minister's agenda?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u74	I'm having a little trouble with this. There have been talks in the Chamber for 20 years and I myself have been very closely involved as a Member of Parliament about the way in which you can broadcast responsible military personnel. Now the suggestion is being made that I have a personal agenda. My agenda is to defeat ISIS, improve the situation in the Middle East and reduce migration flows. I want to do that in the most effective way. We have information and intelligence on that. We are looking at how we can do this most effectively. We also learn from the past. Mr Bontes may find these points complicated. He thinks the ISIS problem is solved by bombing. I'll tell him one thing: from the past we've learned that it can mean exactly the opposite if you don't think carefully about how, where and on what basis you do that. Mr Bontes knows that as well as I do. We have to try to beat each other ISIS. We're not alone in that. All countries are now looking closely at what needs to be done. It is a real shame that this is now being simplified and related to unwillingness or lack of courage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u75	I believe that the Minister still has frustrations about the Second Gulf War, the invasion of Iraq, to which the Netherlands has contributed. However, the situation in Syria, with a terrorist organisation as an enemy, is completely different. Can the Minister respond to this? What are the lessons of the past? He quoted the minister himself, and he was referring to Iraq. Can he explain why the situation in Syria is the same? I do not think that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u76	No, it isn't. I agree with Mr Bontes. It's different in every conflict. That is why I certainly do not rule out the possibility that, if necessary, we would also attack ISIS in Syria. I would point out, by the way, that we only have four F-16s. We're doing very effective work. We have an extremely important role to play in the major problems in Iraq, for which I have great respect. It is a political consideration: how can you use your resources most effectively? I have said that we have a number of considerations on this. If we think it is responsible for our people to do this and if it is effective in the fight against ISIS, we will let the Chamber know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u77	Let me make one final appeal: do not abandon France's ally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u78	We certainly won't. We are already talking to France on the basis of Article 42.7 of the EU Treaty. In all the contacts I have with France, there is a great deal of appreciation. We are one of the few countries, for example, active in the Sahel and...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u79	I see there's talk in the hall. May I ask Members to follow the debate or to discuss it in the hallway?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u80	... we have participated in a number of missions directly linked to the fight against terror, missions which Mr Bontes' group has not supported. I think our cooperation with the French is very productive. We are also open to their requests. I do not think that Mr Bontes should worry about this. So how successful are we in the fight against ISIS so far? I think it is important to put this first to take away the picture that we are not achieving any results at all. We're already in the middle of a long battle. It is a fact that ISIS has not expanded geographically in Syria and Iraq. Reclaiming territory in Iraq has been carefully initiated. Tikrit, Baiji and Sinjar have been conquered and there is a start of an offensive against Ramadi. ISIS lost 30% of the territory it had last year. There have been over 7,500 air strikes and more than 70 leaders have been eliminated, including a number of publicity leaders. At the same time, I have to say that one swallow doesn't make a summer yet. President Obama said: a political solution is the only way to end the war in Syria and unite the Syrian people and the world against ISIL. That is the crux of the matter. It is also too early to applaud Vienna. I shall come back to that later in my speech. I really think that the international community should now unite behind a political solution to the conflict in Syria. That is the core issue for me as Foreign Minister. Regional powers should be involved. That is not only Iran, that is not just Russia; we should ensure that Saudi Arabia and Turkey can and must play a role in the fight against ISIS in the same way. It is inconceivable that ISIS can be fought sustainably if the main person responsible for the misery in that country, Assad, remains in the saddle. I'll come back to this later. The battle hasn't been fought yet. The question follows how to proceed. I have also dealt with this in the written answer to the questions. It is also about de-radicalisation, of course, about foreign fighters. First of all, let me say something about the planning of strategic action. The planning capacity and resources of ISIS should be addressed at source. I believe that ISIS will mainly have to be defeated with ground troops from the region. That's a lesson from the past, too. The strength of the front soldiers, the Kurds and the Iraqi armed forces is quantitatively and qualitatively insufficient. I would like to indicate where we would like to do some extras. The Minister of Defence and I will contact Germany about the extent to which we can also give the peshmergas more resources to intensify the fight against ISIS. The Netherlands should not do so in isolation. That is why we are talking to Germany about how we can do this as soon as possible. I think this is an important element. Many spokesmen have asked questions about this too. If you want to make a dent in a pack of butter in ISIS, it is important that the peshmergas are not only trained, but also have the right resources. Mr Voordewind asked questions about the Dutch support for the Kurds in Syria. They're not a homogeneous group. It's important to name that again. In particular, the PYD, and specifically the armed branch of the YPG, has proved to be a very effective ally in the fight against ISIS in Syria, including in Kobani where there was clear cooperation with the United States. At the same time, the situation is a little more complicated. The PYD is associated with the PKK, the Kurdish organisation in Turkey, which is defined, inter alia, by the EU as a terrorist organisation. There are disturbing reports of human rights violations by the PYD in Northern Syria. For this reason, I still see important objections to military cooperation with the PYD. Strengthening cooperation with the peshmergas is more obvious. Those are also choices you make. They do not have to do with weakness or with strength, but precisely with the aim of fighting the battle as effectively as possible. As far as the influx of foreign fighters is concerned, I think it's really much more important that we work even harder on that whole case of counter narratives and foreign terrorist fighters. At the request of the United States, the Netherlands has taken over the co-chairship of the global coalition that deals with it. That is a series of very important initiatives. This involves tackling foreign terrorists, ensuring that they end up in prison, improving cooperation between the intelligence services and the regions we are talking about, and ensuring that de-radicalisation is carried out at the same time on all fronts. That is, of course, the essence. Why do these people always agree to that? How can you prevent that? We are committed to this through the important role we have in the Global Counter Terrorism Forum. We have the leadership in this together with a number of other countries. That is also very appreciated. I can mention a large number of examples of this, but, given the time available, I will leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u81	I thank the Minister for his positive response to the Kurds in Iraq. I think we're on the same page. I was there a few weeks ago and I had the same requests. They said, please, give us, in addition to the training we greatly appreciate, weapons and heavier weapons in the fight against ISIS. So I have great support for that policy. I thank the Minister for that. Another point concerns the Kurds in Syria. That's where the Americans are moving. The Minister and I also had an exchange of views on this in previous debates. My question at the time was: is the Minister prepared to discuss with the Americans the question, what are their reasons for talking to the PYD and agreeing to take action? That is what the Americans do with Assad, by the way. If anyone's horrible, it's Assad. But these actions will be coordinated. Cooperation is another step further. What is the Americans' commitment to the Kurds in Syria?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u82	I have seen people sitting in the public gallery following us, and there are also people at home following us. I understand that all kinds of English terms and abbreviations need to be used, but if everyone is trying to avoid that a little bit, it will help to understand the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u83	You are absolutely right about that. Apologies. It is indeed difficult with all these terms. We're just gonna do it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u84	We are not going to put salt on all snails, but to some extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u85	You are absolutely right about that. I find it a little difficult to go into the contacts between the US Government and this group now. I don't have any independent information about that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u86	That would be interesting, because, just as we in Iraq desperately need the boots on the ground, supporting the Kurds could offer an opportunity to fight the battle in Syria with full force. Is the Minister at least prepared to ask the Americans for clarification about their links with the Syrian Kurds and about the cooperation that might be possible there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u87	It is clear that the Syrian Kurds play an important role in the fight against ISIS, let there be no mistake about that. I also see that role as important. There are also a few hooks and eyes on this, but that is the case with everything. Mr Voordewind asked about the specific forms of cooperation. I have replied that I now think it is more important to step up aid to the peshmergas, because I have a number of real problems which should also be at his heart with human rights, on the basis of some important reports, including from Amnesty International. Of course, we remain in contact with the United States on all these issues, but it is not up to me to inform the Chamber about the precise relations between the United States and others.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u88	We had made a few arrangements at the beginning, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u89	Yes, but I have already asked the Minister a number of times. I am very curious to know that the Minister does not have to tell me publicly whether there are opportunities there. Boots on the ground of ourselves is impossible, but the Kurds are prepared to do so. I just want to know if there are any chances of doing anything with the Kurds in Syria. My only question to the Minister is whether he wants to check with the Americans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u90	Sure. I don't think that's a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u91	The Minister continues his speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u92	The block is actually ISIS, and ISIS and the Syrians are part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u93	I referred to the Minister's statement just now, when he said: in principle, we are not ruling anything out. That always seems to me to be a sensible approach. In fact, however, he does, because as long as there is a caveat on Article 100, the territorial caveat, he rules out. A caveat is a self-imposed restriction not to operate anywhere military. The reasons for this were nine months of international law. These have been taken away. The Minister could lift the self-imposed limitation in order to contribute to the coalition's willingness to bring the solution closer if all the conditions that the Minister also has in mind are met. This does not mean that Dutch soldiers have to go anywhere immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u94	The caveat is on the agenda for a number of substantive reasons, which have to do with the arguments I have just mentioned. Mr Ten Broeke must not in any way deduce that we are going to conclude that path. That is not the case. It is, of course, true that we are looking seriously at this, because it is about the fight against ISIS and it is also taking place in Syria. We do not suddenly consider this as important as another country where ISIS is active, such as Yemen. It's very difficult to discuss things like this. We have done so many times in this Chamber. I think the government has been quite clear about this this afternoon, both the Prime Minister and myself. We are looking at this step by step in the light of the local security situation. We consider it important to play an active role and look at some elements. We now attach great importance to what is happening in Vienna. Of course, we take into account the arguments that are needed in the fight against ISIS. We will keep the Chamber closely informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u95	In Vienna, there are a number of parties at the table that are making a significant contribution to the perspective that the Minister now sees for himself, the political perspective. These include the United States, Russia and France, all countries that also seize ISIS. One does a little more than the other, we all know that. Does the Minister think that the military action of those countries, which are themselves co-responsible for the agreement now reached in Vienna in two stages, is contributing or not contributing to the fight against ISIS in Syria?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u96	I find that difficult to judge. I do not believe that it is up to the Dutch Government to judge this directly. We'll make our own decision. I would point out that we will always be in complicated coalitions. It is now the Russian Federation, for his magical reasons, Iran, for his captivating reasons, and the United States that are in a coalition. They are in that coalition for a very important reason, namely defeating ISIS. Mr Ten Broeke knows that at the same time there are quite a few differences of opinion between these countries. The way you then fight ISIS depends partly on the future of the country and one of the biggest ISIS inspirators, Assad with its barrel bombs. I can't pull an element out of that. That may seem attractive, but it's only attractive for three weeks, because then we'll have a new opportunistic alliance. We can only defeat ISIS if we are sure that those who are on the ground will not be cleared by all kinds of fighters from Europe the next day. We therefore need to make real progress on a political-military solution in Syria, and the Dutch Government has a very open mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u97	Mr Ten Broeke, this is really the last one. You're actually just gonna continue with the interruptions you just left.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u98	It has something to do with my choice yesterday to ask those questions in the first term. I think I have a right to have an answer to that. If that doesn't happen in writing, I'll have to do it by interrupting. And that's what's happening right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u99	This is the last one!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u100	The countries that do tackle ISIS in Syria. Does the Minister agree with me that recruitment capacity has increased enormously over the last year? Hasn't the number of foreign fighters, foreign fighters, increased tremendously because ISIS in Syria was virtually unhindered? Of course, they were very few countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u101	I leave that correlation to Mr Ten Broeke. I don't know if that correlation is there. It seems to me to be the essence that at least the current strategy has not worked sufficiently and that we therefore need to operate more strongly and wisely. Apparently, these 9,700 bombings have not led to a reduction in the number of foreign fighters. That is why I would like to point out that it is so important that we operate wisely. Mr. Chairman. With reference to Vienna, I would like to return to the main cause; we were talking about it earlier. Mr Sjoerdsma spoke about the importance of the negotiations. I'm not gonna suddenly say they're all beautiful. We will also take a critical look at whether they actually go ahead. In my view, we really should not be tempted to choose between two evils, even here in the Chamber, namely Assad and ISIS. There is a third vote, the moderate opposition. The moderate opposition is far too undersupported, although it must also be a voice for Syria's future. It is ordinary Syrians, men and women, young and old, who refuse to bow to state terror and refuse to opt for extremism. It's brave men and women who risk their own lives trying to get victims of air bombardment out of the rubble. The Netherlands supports this opposition, just as the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, France and Denmark do. We support those people by enabling them to rule the areas under their control. We support police, local councils and civil society so that public life can continue. We also support moderate armed opposition groups. That's not unimportant. It is not soft either, because the people there are very high risks. These people are going to decide whether this fight against ISIS will actually be implemented on the ground. This support has also proved successful. I believe that Mr Grashoff asked for this and I can tell him that I have decided to increase this difficult and complex support for moderate armed opposition groups. We need to assess both dimensions of the conflict, Assad and ISIS, in a coherent manner, and we need to adapt our response to that. I could say a little bit more about that, but I'm not going to say that now, given the time. I would point out that a ceasefire is seen by the Russians and the Americans as a real possibility. I still have to see that for myself. For example, the first ceasefire around Ghouta, where the regime is fighting the opposition, has already expired. The result is that dozens have been killed by the mortars of the Assad regime. So that is what still needs to be worked on. We need a number of actors to do this. In addition to the ceasefire, there is the political transaction. That makes it complicated, I don't want to deny it. This afternoon, too, I will undoubtedly have a lot of questions about this. It means that countries such as Iran and Saudi Arabia are now also involved, countries that are generally criticised by us, and rightly so, about the human rights situation. Part of that is that in Saudi Arabia all these opposition groups will meet as soon as possible and Jordan has the task of separating the chaff from the chaff in the case of terrorist organisations. That must, of course, come together to ensure that in Syria there is no future for ISIS on the ground. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u102	With me, the entire story of the minister of an open mind, no taboos and yet the caveats and focus on the political process still prevails. I think everyone is in favour of the political process. However, the question is how likely it is to be. Is it a real alternative or a parallel track that can be run to fight IS? That is, after all, the main objective. That is what the Minister has said, and that is what the Chamber is saying. My question is about that truce the Minister is talking about. How realistic does the Minister consider it that there is a truce involving IS at all, given the way in which IS has operated over the past period?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u103	Zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u104	So what is the political purpose of a truce?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u105	That truce isn't with ISIS. ISIS is the enemy. I thought we'd agree on that soon. Isn't it about us attacking ISIS together? That is at the heart of what is happening in Vienna.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u106	That's clear. Thank you. Then there is the question of how realistic that is and whether this leads to the objective on which we all agree, namely that IS must be destroyed. At least, that's what I'm assuming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u107	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u108	Exactly. To what extent does that lead to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u109	It's an absolute condition, but it's not the only one. We're going to fight ISIS here, aren't we? We shall also have to recapitulate the financing of this programme in a moment's time. ISIS managed to nest in the north side of Syria for all the reasons we discussed earlier. So it has to be destroyed there, too. One condition for this is that that place is taken by other Syrians, not by ISIS. We must ensure that it does not, like Al-Qaeda and all the other terrorist organisations, trade one flag for another. You can beat ISIS, but then there comes another group that does exactly the same thing. That is something we must avoid. I wish it were that simple. I wish it were so simple that tomorrow I could say: guys, we're gonna join some of those bombings and that'll help right away, et cetera. If that is the case, the Dutch Government will be the first to take a decision. Then I come to the next point, Turkey. Mr Van Bommel spoke about the double role Turkey would play. In summary, ISIS's approach would be a cover to tackle the PKK. Mr Sjoerdsma also asked for this. This is exactly an example of how complicated this is. It is not complicated to be passive, but to become very active. It is essential for Turkey to be part of that alliance, otherwise there will be all kinds of possibilities for all agreements to be undermined. These risks are always present in any country. It is well known that Turkey is not in an easy position. It has security threats from different angles and it has taken up about 2 million refugees since the beginning of the conflict in Syria. Several attacks have taken place in recent months, with many deaths to be regretted. In addition, many policemen and soldiers were killed in PKK actions. The Netherlands has repeatedly pointed this out. More than any other country, the Netherlands has called on the Turkish ambassador to raise precisely these points, including the need for proportionality when it comes to attacks by the PKK. That is what I am saying in response to Mr Grashoff. Moreover, the PKK is an organisation which the European Union and the Netherlands have on the list of terrorist organisations. The Netherlands is, of course, very concerned about the possible escalation of the situation in the region and has called on Turkey and the Kurdish groups concerned to continue the peace process and to respect the ceasefire. Several allies are also working on that. I would like to point out that Turkey has increased the intensity of its approach to ISIS since the end of July. The spokesmen rightly pointed out that it could be a bit higher. This is essential to the fight against ISIS. Turkey has released more capacity to better guard its borders. The country is now carrying out actions against ISIS in a coalition context. Only recently, in the run-up to, and during the G20 meeting, the Turkish police carried out a few major operations and arrests spread throughout the country. Turkey's military engagement with the PKK has not yet had a direct impact on the coalition's struggle against ISIS. As I said, the Turkish approach to ISIS has become firmer. We're seeing a positive trend. I would like to underline this and, of course, strengthen it in our relations with Turkey. Mr Knops has rightly expressed his concerns about the freedom of the press and about the arrest of journalists in Turkey. I share those concerns, as do the European Union. We only have to look at the latest report on this issue. I spoke to the Turkish ambassador about this before the elections, also at the request of the House of Representatives. That was also about a case which also had to do with the elections. The Chamber asked me to call on the Turkish ambassador to do so. In the meantime, some other comments have been made by the Dutch authorities. However, I found it important not only to mention this, but also to point out the raids on the media parts of the holding company Koza Ipek, which took place a few days before the elections. All these concerns are not suddenly dropped when we are talking to Turkey about cooperation on the issue of migration. There must be no misunderstanding about that. Criteria are criteria and there is no blackmail. Mr De Roon is no longer in the Chamber at the moment, but I know that someone is listening to this debate for him. Mr De Roon argued in favour of stopping these accession negotiations. The cabinet doesn't choose that. It opts for a credible process in which these strict conditions continue to apply. This approach offers the best opportunity to address Turkey precisely in those areas of the rule of law, freedom of the press and freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u110	The Minister is right to pay a great deal of attention to Turkey. Many aspects play a role in this. The Minister is talking about a very complex picture. I'd like to zoom in on the PKK. On the one hand, the international community is very grateful when the PKK removes the chestnuts from the fire in the face of a concrete threat, around Sinjar or around Kobani. On the other hand, this international community looks away when Turkey acts with great violence from the air against the PKK. Isn't that what's bothering the Minister? That's a very double attitude, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u111	I thought I had just pointed out that the Dutch Government was quite assertive on this point. I therefore disagree with Mr Van Bommel. However, there is indeed a complicated situation because the PKK is also a terrorist organisation. The PKK is actually responsible for a number of attacks in Turkey. That does make it complicated, as everything is complicated there. Complexity, however, does not lead to passivity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u112	I very much agree with the Minister that this is complex. However, I would also like to point out the role played by the PKK for a long time. For a long time there was a ceasefire on the part of the PKK. The violence has actually only flared up after the elections in which pro-Kurdish parties, the HDP, managed to win a ballot box victory. Shouldn't the Netherlands actually put more pressure on Turkey? Should we not actually ask the Turks to resume this negotiation process with the Kurds? That's the solution, isn't it? Surely a ceasefire in south-eastern Turkey must be reached at the negotiating table?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u113	I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u114	That is indeed a short answer; I am completely upset.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u115	Turkey is a "pain in the ass." I don't know if I should translate this, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u116	Turkey is a "complicated issue'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u117	Exactly. Turkey plays all kinds of roles at the same time. We have asked the Minister several times about this. I understand it's complicated. I also understand that it is complicated for the Minister to have to discuss this every time. Still, Erdogan plays the game very well. He negotiates with Europe about more money for shelter when he opens up the refugee camps. Erdogan plays doubles at ISIS. First IS is a kind of ally of him, or he tolerates the organization, then he intervenes. We are at the table with such an ally, and the Minister is at the table with such an ally, for example within NATO. Then it is asked: can you provide assistance? Then the Dutch patriots come to help the Turks. So far, so good; good allies. When it comes down to it, we simply cannot count on it, apart from all the problems surrounding human rights. There are many indications that the Turks are involved, passively or actively, in arms supplies through Turkish territory. If we are working on a solution to the conflict, then this is something that needs to be addressed first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u118	The answer is right. It is not my fault that it is complicated, or the Dutch Government. It's not a matter of "it's complex and we're not doing anything." You have just argued for the crucial importance of it, and you have even mentioned it as a priority, above all else; above the migration problem, I have the impression, because we also have a discussion with Turkey about the fight against ISIS. That is also the core discussion that is now taking place with the Americans and others. We also see a number of increases in the fight, also because ISIS is partly a threat to Turkey itself. I think we are thinking in the same direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u119	I've asked a lot of parliamentary questions. The last one, on October 12th, has not yet been answered. Perhaps they are all complex questions, but the Minister's response is almost constant: we have heard that, but we do not know what is happening. From my position in the Chamber, I find that extremely unsatisfactory. I could conclude from that that the Minister would rather not talk about this. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u120	No, that is absolutely not right, quite the contrary. You should know, if you ask questions about this, I will, of course, try to respond as specifically as possible with the intelligence services. I will also answer these questions in a very specific way. You can rest assured that's what I want because I think it's important too. The suggestions contained in a number of questions are, of course, a problem if they were to come true. We shall also look again at these questions on the basis of the latest information we have. It's, just for the point I just mentioned, essential...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u121	Can you also specify a time limit for answering those questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u122	Oh, yeah. We'll answer them soon. Maybe I can answer them tonight and otherwise the answer will follow in a few days. The fact that a question is sometimes not answered directly has to do with the fact that asking a question is a little easier than answering it. It needs to be looked at very carefully. I just said something about the problem of Syria and ISIS. Kern is that we stick with the Turks. We should not bomb something on the one hand if it is undermined on the other, as you suggest. That's why it's so important that people stay together. That's the only way to kill ISIS. The only positive thing I can say now, and I wish I could say more positive, is that a large number of countries must participate in this game. Russia doesn't want a new Afghanistan. Turkey sees that this is a problem and realises that it cannot only implement the anti-Assad agenda. Iran, which we also think is a complex country, will also have to participate in this game. That is the only way we can effectively address ISIS. It's not soft, it's hard. So Turkey's approach will play a role in this, an important one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u123	Perhaps you can still use your second term for this. Now for a brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u124	Then we can finish it, Mr. Chairman. It's also about speed. Thank you to the Minister for that reply. If there is any indication that Turkey will continue to take care of matters that undermine our common strategy, namely the fight against ISIS, then we must also be prepared and able to make that discussable and address it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u125	Absolutely, I agree with you very much. As the Foreign Minister, you will understand that I cannot say that this is the case now, because I will have the Turkish Ambassador visit tomorrow. It is precisely now that we are trying to ensure that this is the priority in the fight we are fighting together against ISIS. I come to a number of other topics. I have spoken about Syria and Vienna. I thought the Chamber had also spoken with the Prime Minister this afternoon on a number of issues relating to migration. I would therefore like to deal with this subject a little more briefly. The main point of the discussion that we had had had had had that terrible attack not taken place would, of course, have been the situation with regard to migration. In the 21st century we are dealing with a huge issue. The Chamber has not asked many specific questions about this. This also has to do with the debate she had this afternoon. In that debate, the Chamber discussed with the Prime Minister a number of issues relating to screening and control. At the same time, we must not fall into the trap that ISIS has set for us, namely that asylum and terrorism issues become a single agenda. Effective screening and reinforcement of border surveillance are needed. This was discussed with the Prime Minister this afternoon. I would not like to repeat that debate now. The same applies to the points we discussed earlier on this important external agenda. There's a relationship there with what we just said. We talked about the problem of ISIS and the problem of Syria. There lies the core of the largest migratory flow. Therefore, the anti-ISIS struggle must also be linked to total stabilisation of Syria. If we don't do that, we'll only solve a little bit. After all, the largest migratory flows are caused by Assad's bombings. I think that is an essential point in this discussion. Of course, the programmes relating to Lebanon and Syria, to which the Chamber referred earlier, belong. I come back to a number of very good proposals from the Chamber on this. I would like to say one more thing about deradicalisation. That is an essential point. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has an active role in this. We are working with a large number of countries to bring about the emergence of various radical groups on the ground, such as the Taliban, ISIS, Boko Haram, Al-Shabaab, Ansar al-Dine, AQIM and so on; I was dealing with them when I was in Mali to tackle deradicalisation programmes. Again, that too is not a soft policy. The fact that jihadism has spread in northern Mali has to do with a combination of exclusivity, as we have seen in Syria in relation to a large number of Sunnis. It concerns people with little money who can be bought for a pack of cigarettes by a jihadist movement. They have little education and will be tempted to do all kinds of absurd and nihilistic deeds tomorrow. That is not a rationalization or explanation, but it is something we must work on. I think it is absolutely essential to do so. I would like to mention a number of other points which play a role in this battle that is so important. One of them is funding. I believe there is still a world to be won when it comes to financing ISIS through oil and money. I have partially replied to the questions in writing. It presents a number of elements that show how ISIS finances itself. This is to begin with through the total exploitation of one's own territory. As far as I am concerned, far too few results have been achieved in the fight against funding and recruitment. I think this is one of the main points in the fight against ISIS. There's been some success. For example, under the leadership of the group to which the Netherlands attracts, this is the counter-financing group, which strengthens supervision and improves cooperation with banks. Turkey has indicated that stricter border measures have greatly reduced oil smuggling. That's true, but of course that's not enough. After all, ISIS still manages to generate revenue. The challenge for the coalition is that ISIS largely generates this income independently and locally, for example through the theft of bank accounts. The Chamber has asked for hard figures. It's hard to give them. The territory under the rule of ISIS is not an open society, to call it a euphemism of the first order. According to estimates by the United States, which are shared within the anti-ISIS coalition, the total revenues are over US$ 700 million. That is, of course, a horror. It is estimated that less than 1% of them come from external donations. As far as I am concerned, ISIS needs to be cut even more financially from the outside world, but that is not the only point. ISIS also receives money through forced labour and by emptying everything that is in its own country. So we must prevent that wealth, that wealth, from turning into strength. I believe that the role of the neighbouring countries of Iraq and Syria is crucial. For example, there is simply a deal between ISIS and Assad. Also there you see that connection between the two. They're opponents, but ISIS's oil is just being sold to Assad. That's how it works. There are these sickly opportunistic alliances which must be broken through by an international approach, which is being worked on in a number of areas, which I have mentioned in the written reply. This is, of course, also happening with the Ministry of Finance, as I once shared with Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u126	I have a question about external financing. It is crucial that the financial umbilical cord, so to speak, be closed between ISIS and the rest of the world. The Minister says that only a limited percentage comes out through private funding. I wonder how limited that is and to what extent we really have sufficient insight into the extent of these flows. What more can we, as the European Union, do to identify these people? Should we not also ensure that donations of this kind cannot take place without consequences, freezing the funds of the people who do so and ensuring that they no longer enter the European Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u127	As far as the first is concerned, we also have a duty to do so. UN resolutions have been adopted. They're also being applied. Every time there are all kinds of people working to make sure this doesn't happen. They could also be individual donations. It's often not from the governments. I am particularly concerned about reducing the possibilities for oil exports. We've set up several organs. There is the point again: you can only do it with international cooperation, but then you have to choose to do it. We mainly send that through the Global Counter Terrorism Forum. Through the treasury, we are working to tackle people of this kind and to propose sanctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u128	It's not entirely clear to me. Does the Minister think that we are doing enough to identify these people, even at European level?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u129	We do, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u130	I understand very well that this cannot be done by the Netherlands alone. Are the consequences, at least from within the European Union, for us to freeze these people's assets wherever possible and to ensure that they are no longer able to enter the European Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u131	I know that at least we are doing a lot about it. This may result in sanctions or freezing of funds. After the comments I have made, the Netherlands cannot be criticised in this area, or it must be because we are so active on it. Mr Sjoerdsma asks if we are going to go further into that. I'm only concerned with its effectiveness. If several measures were possible, we would be happy to support them. The measures go quite far when you look at the UN resolutions. We are after them to ensure that they are carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u132	I know that UN resolution too. It is the very clear resolution 2199. The minister says we can't blame the Netherlands. I also say that we should do it in a European context. Let me therefore put the question in this way: how many people are the funds frozen by the Netherlands or Europe? I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u133	I don't know that number. I'd be happy to inform the Chamber in writing if I have that information and it's public.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u134	That's what I'm talking about. I understand that the Minister does not have the exact number ready at this time. We cannot ask him to do so, but that is important for the debate. I am convinced that we are doing too little, that we are not dealing with these people enough, or at least not enough. The Minister says: you can blame us very little; we are doing enough. Then I would also like to see the results of that approach. Otherwise, in the second term, I will propose that we should be more systematic in identifying those people and imposing their consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u135	I thought I just answered these questions. This is an important problem. I'm not happy with the results. We are trying to persuade other countries to do exactly the same. We do this in our contacts in the Global Counter Terrorism Forum and in the cooperation between the ministries of treasury. There's really maximum stakes on that. It's hard for me to influence something that's not up to me. You control the Dutch Government and it is very active in many areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u136	I welcome Mr Sjoerdsma's frustration. That UN resolution has been there for a long time. When I saw last week's G20 summit report, where this item on the agenda was re-created, I thought: what progress did we make during that period? Saudi Arabia is a member of that. I also have a question for the Minister about oil. Mr Kuzu asked a number of questions about this yesterday. How is oil companies themselves given responsibility to prevent illegally exported oil from ISIS territory from being traded and eventually placed in our petrol tank?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u137	I share that frustration, no misunderstanding about that. We must be very much on that funding side. I have just said how important I think it is and how we do it. I gave the numbers, too. It is relatively small through external funding. They are mainly individuals and they need to be addressed. We are doing everything we can to ensure that they are dealt with. The oil companies are a bulk market. That goes through international trade. They're not specific companies. That is what is complicated in a globalised world where terrorist organisations like this are able to deal with it. I agree with Mr Servaes that we should operate as effectively as possible. However, it is difficult for him to ask me in the Dutch Parliament to resolve all this without saying what we should have done differently than we do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u138	I am not asking the Minister to do that either, but there is an OECD agreement. Companies are responsible for where they get something from, for the whole chain. I find it too easy to say that it is a bulk market. I would like the G20, the UN, the coalition against ISIS or that working group in which we are sitting to actively bring in oil companies and appeal to them for their own responsibility. That is an international agreement and you cannot hide behind the fact that that market is a bit complicated. It is a direct responsibility of oil companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u139	I do not know who is hiding behind the fact that the market is complicated. I have just said that I think it is essential that it is addressed through all the organisations that we have and that we operate in it as much as possible. If there are any good proposals to make it even sharper, I will support them. This is a key problem in the fight against ISIS. I come to the point of strengthening diplomacy. My biggest capital isn't the money from the budget, it's the people I work with. Extra money mainly goes to more people, more knowledge and more programs that help us to have and keep knowledge. With your help, we are investing in this support and the important strengthening of diplomacy, especially where this is so important. Those are the edges of Europe. We have sent a letter on this matter to the Chamber, the so-called Van Ojik letter. That diplomatic presence is a must. These are the people on the front line, who are trying to focus as actively as possible on all the problems that have just been mentioned, such as: how do we deal with oil trade, how do we ensure that international organisations are active in it, should we impose sanctions and who are they? I would like to thank Mr Sjoerdsma and the former chairman of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance for helping to strengthen its operation on a number of points, both politically and economically. This leads to a number of posts opening up and scaling up, depending on the international situation. A number of questions have been asked about consular services. As is well known, consular services are one of the core tasks of foreign affairs. That's how I see it. We invest in services for our citizens. Some things we no longer do if there are reasonable alternatives. Some things we do differently. The same applies to assistance to prisoners. I attach great importance to the need for consular assistance for Dutch detainees. I'll interfere with that myself if I have to. A number of cases have been publicized in recent years. Another question is whether it makes sense to do so, because sometimes it makes no sense at all to do so. This also has to do with the judicial process in other countries. At least we're careful with it. With last year's policy, we are focusing more on prisoners who really need our help and less on prisoners who are treated according to international standards. This is not a cut in the budget, it is an effective and fair distribution of the resources available. In certain countries where this is really necessary, Dutch prisoners receive extra care, think of social or spiritual assistance from volunteers. That's usually customized through a local network. I also replied in writing to the questions about Epafras. We still grant extra care to Dutch inmates. Until the end of 2016, the volunteers of Reclassing Netherlands will conduct these social-social talks. They visit the detainees from the country of detention and do not need to be flown in. I think that's very important. In addition, we improve the service, using the latest insights and digital solutions. For example, the consular questions that previously came into our posts are now coming into the consular contact centres that are accessible 24/7. As of January, they have worldwide coverage 24 hours a day. This is also important because people want information directly, especially now that the situation is so uncertain. This weekend our staff of the crisis phone team were ready 24/7 consular contact center in the early Saturday morning for more than two hundred questions from concerned countrymen. As far as we are concerned, all the questions and concerns are legitimate, from the concerned traveler to the concerned father who suspected his daughters among the victims. There are many examples of assistance to fellow countrymen in need, via The Hague, but above all through our posts on the ground. I would very much like to show you how we help Dutch people in need, but as is the case in diplomacy, sometimes behind the scenes work is done to achieve something for people. When you communicate very openly, you sometimes get something that's opposite to what you would want. Of course, people also have their own responsibility. Read the travel advice and make sure you have enough. In short, prepare yourself well when you travel. We will always be there for those who really need our care and for Dutch people who are in need abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u140	It is a rather specific question, I admit, but I have read the answers to Mr Van Bommel's questions about Epafras. It is good that the Ministry is willing to assist them in gaining access. I understand that there is still concern, because the agreement would be to try it first and that the ministry would not be able to help until afterwards. I can imagine that the Ministry is a little more forthcoming in this, for example in the form of a general letter or recommandation. Is the Minister prepared to consider whether he could directly support Epafras, an organisation that has been doing this for a long time, with a recommendation, because there are concerns about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u141	In fact, we are doing everything in our power to actively support Epafras in these areas. The fact that this grant application did not go as it might have been wanted at the time does not mean that we would not want to cooperate. If there are new initiatives that are really helping, we are, of course, prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u142	Thank you very much for that. For the sake of clarity, I am not saying anything about the change of policy and the subsidy scheme, because I understand that, but it would be good to take these concerns to heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u143	Sure, you're absolutely right about that. Then I come to something important raised by Mr Ten Broeke and Mr Servaes. A great deal has been said today about effective control of ISIS, cold-bloodedness and the need to continue. In this context, it is important that there has been a long international lack of attention to conflicts and their significance for migration issues. It is a good thing that the cabinet has presented an agenda for action. The Chamber has paid attention to this. It is proposed to strengthen, for example, some United Nations organisations in the area of migration. How can you spend that money even sharper and better? The Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation will also discuss this, following on from what has been presented here. I think this is important. We should support global organisations, especially if they are as effective as possible in removing the causes, but also the symptoms and consequences of migration. You should look at what are actually the best organizations, how they function and how you can make things better. It also discussed the importance of countries such as Lebanon and Syria. I have very much appreciated that this has been discussed. I believe that Mr Ten Broeke himself has been there; all the spokesmen have been there. They have seen what the shelter in the region means there. They will also have been in the villages where there has been a population increase of between 30 and 40%. Countries such as Lebanon are, of course, particularly vulnerable countries. Over the last few weeks, we have seen how this has contributed to terrorist attacks, which were also very politically targeted. I think it is important that every effort is made to give these countries the opportunity to stop being discriminated against in order to have just fallen into a higher income category. This means that we are now looking very actively at opportunities for global bank loans and other loans. However, this is not entirely my portfolio. I would therefore just like to express my positive political appreciation for this. I assume that this will also be further discussed with the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. This is a politically strategic use in conflict zones. Making this an agenda that is paramount has direct consequences for the Netherlands. The same applies to the initiatives by Mr Servaes and Mr Ten Broeke to combat other fundamental problems of instability. That is also my own priority in foreign policy. Their four strokes appeal to me: support for democratic development and civil society, development of the rule of law and reliable institutions. I also recognise the elements that are part of the Matra policy, to which Mr Servaes and Mr Ten Broeke referred. In particular, I would like to highlight the key role of civil society. If we do not want to go from crisis to crisis, we must look at the problems in a coherent way and tackle them at the root. The best cure for instability is, in the end, nevertheless inclusive institutions. In my opinion, institutions are always an expression of a social contract. This also puts an end to administrative arbitrariness and abuse of public tasks for your own gain. When we look at what actually happened at the Arab Spring, it appears that it was almost always about rebellion against a lack of good governance, against corruption and against leaders who have abused it. It is not so easy yet, but if you want to do very well with those institutions, it is important, in the direct Dutch interest, but also out of an enlightened self-interest, to invest in it. I see the suggestions in this sense as supporting and strengthening our policy. We are therefore taking these suggestions with us for the future. I would also like to use the Matra programme, including the political party programme, in the coming years to promote stability in the ring around the European Union. These are three regions: the Eastern Partnership region, the Arab world and the pre-accession countries. The evaluation of the Matra-Zuid programme received the Chamber in September, together with my ideas on how to implement the programme in the coming period. The evaluations of the Matra programme for the pre-accession countries, which are the Western Balkans, Turkey and Eastern Partnership countries, with the completion of the programme for the coming period, will be sent to the Chamber before Christmas. With modest resources, we really seem to be achieving results. We do this by supporting very focused players who can make a difference in a society: judges, journalists, politicians, diplomats and others. I'm talking about a long-term commitment, otherwise this won't work. I am therefore in favour of a structural broadening of the Matra programme to all countries, to the extent that this is desirable for the Eastern Partnership, because this is actually a shared problem. In recent years, we have begun to broaden Matra, partly through amendments from the Chamber. I would like to continue this line on a structural basis, whether it be Ukraine, Georgia, Moldova, Armenia, Belarus or Azerbaijan. These countries are very close to us. The functioning of the rule of law, the fight against corruption and capacity building and institutional strengthening of civil society are central to this. This also applies to the southern neighbours. I believe that there is a real need to look at very specific, catalysing initiatives in all these areas. We do not need to redo the work of the great international bureaucracies. That is why in the coming years Matra-Zuid will focus on supporting what is now important in the region that is in crisis and what we have been talking about all afternoon. There are, however, a number of comments to be made. I was thinking about the name, but of course there's always talk about it. However, I would like to say that Matra is the longest-standing programme in the Netherlands in this field: it has been running since 1993. It is certainly a very strong brand in Europe. Several generations of drivers have made use of it. So maybe you should question whether that name should be changed. Anyway, of course, we can discuss that further. There was also the proposal to increase the programme to 30 million and in the long term to 40 million. For 2016, I found a cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u144	We are now talking about the amendment to item No. 16?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u145	Yes. I would like to make another effort for the years after that, first and foremost budget. There is now no room on my budget. Of course, we're also going to see if this new approach works properly. It also looks at absorption capacity and needs in the Matra countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u146	Let me explain something. We talked about this yesterday. We can now, of course, only decide on the next year's budget. That is why a motion will be tabled, and I hope that it will be approached with the same positive attitude as the initiative as such, because the initiators want to make it a structural funding. However, my question is another one. Many colleagues have asked how to ensure that the other countries do what they have to do. The Netherlands can do more and more, but the Netherlands is already at the forefront. I would like the Minister to urge other donors to participate in this movement when spending this money. More structural funding is absolutely needed. We really need to get away from this ad hoc funding. That is the cry for help that we have heard very clearly from the UNHCR. I think that's also the movement that needs to be deployed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u147	I very much agree with that. I think this is a really good thing. We're strengthening this. And indeed, you have to make sure you get the others, otherwise they're totally dependent on you too. In fact, you say the same thing. I am very willing to work actively on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u148	That seems clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u149	I have two more suggestions for naming. Firstly, the 'Arend Jan Boekenestijn Fund', because he has advocated this in the past. I imagine the Minister has a slight preference for that. We can also turn "Matras" into "Matras" to express the resilience of Mr Servaes, one of the namesakes. We can take it with us right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u150	These are both extremely interesting suggestions. If it's all right with you, we'll take a closer look at it. I see that this is already leading to some discussion between Members of Parliament who have put forward this good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u151	It may be that the Minister will speak about it, but just now he said something about one of the two amendments tabled by Mr Servaes and Mr Ten Broeke. The other about extra money for refugees has not been very explicitly addressed. Will the Minister come back to that? If not, I would ask him to go into the coverage of that proposal. I saw a number of difficulties in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u152	This is covered by a different budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u153	Yes, Mr President, it is covered by a different budget. So I will not go into it. That is the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. I know from my own past that I didn't think it was ideal for another minister to talk about how I had to set up my budget. That is what Mr Grashoff can best discuss with the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u154	I can imagine that Mr Grashoff would like to hear your opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u155	That's possible, but that's almost entrapment, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u156	You can do that once in a while. You're not gonna answer it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u157	With pleasure, if you don't mind. I think it is a good amendment. I think that is something that I have already put out a little bit about the need to look very closely at the UN funds which work best and which work less well. This must be combined with the urgency of a number of things that may not have received sufficient attention in the past, unfortunately. In that light, I can imagine the shift and the cover. However, I do not want to go very far in detail and express an opinion on what it means, in the light of the responsibility of my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u158	Mr Grashoff, now you have a direction and you have to do business with this minister's colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u159	We will return to Minister Ploumen. I will finish by expressing my concern about one aspect of the coverage, which is likely to be at the expense of UNESCO-IHE (Institute for Water Education). That institution is extremely important. I feel like I'm wrong to run into this in a row.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u160	I take note of that. I propose that we discuss this in the debate next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u161	I believe, Minister, that you are now ready for human rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u162	That's right. Indeed, I am now talking about justice and human rights. This issue is being discussed a great deal in this Chamber. In the foreign policy that I advocate, I believe that it is a realism when the Netherlands is strongly committed to this. As far as I am concerned, there is no exchange between security and stability on the one hand and human rights on the other. You can't put human rights and democracy in the waiting room while you're working on restoring order. Security and human rights complement each other. That is why the Netherlands also supports organisations in unstable countries that advocate democratic transition and human rights, for example with the programme that the Chamber has just spoken about. The Human Rights Fund will mobilise additional resources for Lebanon, Jordan and Egypt in 2016. That also fits in with the broader story. Matra and the Human Rights Fund complement each other. At Matra, the emphasis is on building the rule of law and the Human Rights Fund focuses more on supporting human rights organisations and human rights defenders. Human rights are at the heart of foreign policy. Then I'm not talking about letters and ticking lists. I'm talking about what we do. Let me give you a few examples, on the basis of two important developments. First of all, we are dealing with the emergence of very diverse new players. Think of business and other non-governmental organisations. Business is obviously not a new player, but it is a very important one. We were just talking about it when it was about funding ISIS. We must actively base our human rights policy on that. Secondly, the Netherlands must take account of changing world relations. Neither of these developments requires a lower ambition as far as I am concerned. They do ask for an innovative approach to the implementation of the policy. There is a risk that human rights will be presented as a Western invention. That's a really big risk. I have spoken to a number of ministers from other parts of the world in recent days. Machthebbers who don't have much use for restricting their power, are all too happy to resort to that kind of analysis. It is not very effective to then respond only as Western countries. Then you just confirm that image. Moreover, international relations are no longer as they were just after the Cold War. The Netherlands should actually seek connections through trilateral work, through allies. This way you make sure that these kinds of discussions don't get bigger. As far as I am concerned, human rights are universal. We should not always want to plant the Dutch flag pontifically. You ask me that sometimes, but that's not always the most effective thing. On the contrary, it is important that non-Western countries also make an international commitment to human rights. For example, I have spoken with a number of African ministers in recent times to ensure that they also raise this issue. So it's not about Western values, it's about universal values. Of course, the government raises human rights issues in the bilateral relations that the Netherlands maintains. The way it differs from country to country. I will deal with a number of specific cases later. That always has to do with the discussion we have been having here for years about merchant and minister. Are they in each other's arms or are they not? When the door to economic relations is open, it is sometimes very good to appoint human rights instead of being completely sidelined; in other cases it is more complicated. Other parties are also involved in the discussion, such as companies that benefit from a good investment climate. We have been asked about Iran's expectations. Iran is typically a country in which human rights are still a major issue. That is what we raised when we were there. All kinds of companies and organisations also have an interest in strengthening human rights there. The linking of trade benefits to human rights, such as the GSP plus, is a positive thing; I welcome that. Governments are taking measures to better protect human rights, including under pressure from obtaining trade benefits. Sometimes "talking to" doesn't work at all and it becomes "talking to." Then other instruments come into view. For example, you can show that you are involved in human rights defenders, both behind the scenes and publicly. For example, we are following cases of human rights defenders and expressing our views on these issues both bilaterally and at EU level. In recent consultations, I reported on how we deal with this in Yemen. That's really not easy, because there's a whole new field of tension. For example, we do so in the case of Saudi blogger Raif Badawi. There is also pressure from the European Union for the release of five Chinese women who stood up for women's rights, which at least means that they have been released on parole. However, I believe that the EU can act more frequently and in a more united manner. I do agree with the Members on some of the points they have raised. I think this should be addressed in the Global Strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u163	Now that the name of the blogger from Saudi Arabia has fallen, I would like to ask a question about this. The answer correctly states that quiet diplomacy is being used in this particular case in Saudi Arabia. Now that he himself has mentioned the name of the blogger, can the Minister also tell us what the action has been? Has there been a concrete plea for release?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u164	The answer is, of course, yes. We stood up for this. Silent diplomacy doesn't mean I can't say anything about it here. You check with each other on what's most effective. Sometimes this is an action of the Netherlands, sometimes not at all of the Netherlands, but of a number of other countries in the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u165	I am glad that the Minister himself mentioned the name of the blogger, because then we can specifically ask about this matter. Has the Minister received the support of his European colleagues in this respect? I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u166	Yes. I'll say something about that later. I will come back to the situation in Saudi Arabia because a number of Members have raised it. In the case of Saudi Arabia, we are dealing with a regional power that plays a crucial role for the future of the region. That is a bit the same as I have just discussed with Mr Knops. Saudi Arabia is the country that was commissioned to hold a meeting with the Syrian opposition groups in Riyadh during the Viennese process. It is a complex country with various roles. It is an important partner that we desperately need in the fight against ISIS. It is an indispensable player to bring a political solution closer, also given the country's influence on the Syrian opposition. The country is of great importance in the fight against the financing of terrorism, which we have just talked about. The Netherlands is constantly looking at how it can best deal with this. We have exchanged this here earlier on the occasion of a visit I made to Saudi Arabia. How can you engage in a critical dialogue with that country? We have already discussed our commitment to an independent international investigation into human rights violations in Yemen. We also spoke publicly about Raif Badawi's case. We have raised his case with the authorities in accordance with the motion tabled by Mr Van Bommel together with Mr Sjoerdsma. Mr Servaes has asked me to respond to Amnesty International's report, speaking is silver, silence is wrong. We share Amnesty's concerns. The implementation of the death penalty and the increasing repression of those we regard as human rights defenders, calling for strict legislation on terrorism, are at my heart. In my view, there is no silence. The Netherlands is actively bringing human rights violations in Saudi Arabia to bear, perhaps we are one of the most powerful countries in Saudi Arabia, both bilaterally and at EU level, and sometimes in a wider international context. We always make the balance that has to be made: do we act publicly, do we use silent diplomacy, can we do it best under the Dutch flag or not? The Netherlands regularly conducts talks with representatives of the Saudi community and with the government. The Riyadh Embassy is equipped for its duties in the field of human rights, I say to Mr Sjoerdsma. For this I have put an extra FTE on this post. Dialogue also takes place at political level. The topics of discussion are freedom of expression, individual lawsuits, counter-terrorism, Sharia law, religious freedom and women's rights and their opportunities in the labour market. During his visit to Saudi Arabia and the margin of several meetings, Minister Kamp also discussed a wide range of human rights issues, such as the position of women, sunni-shia oppositions and Sharia legislation. Mr Grashoff asked a question about the division of labour within the cabinet. The promotion and protection of human rights abroad is, as far as I am concerned, a task for the entire cabinet. As members of the Cabinet travel abroad, prior coordination and coordination will always take place on how this issue, given the specific context, will be addressed effectively. The Saudi authorities have also received the human rights ambassador. I want to send the human rights ambassador there again in the first half of 2016. Of course, we shouldn't be naive. The gradual social and social changes in Saudi Arabia are moving slowly. They go against deeply rooted religious traditions, which often also live strongly among the population. I do believe that the Netherlands can and must play an important role. I believe that, on a number of points I mentioned, we have made essential contributions from an activist approach to human rights. Of course, that does not always make it easy for this minister, but I think it is important to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u167	It's an understatement that change is slow in Saudi Arabia. If there was any hope that the new king would pursue a different policy, we haven't seen much of it. What matters is that we are indeed trying to take those steps. I appreciate the fact that, on the initiative of the Netherlands, the EU is currently attending these trials, but the key point of Amnesty's report was that the findings of the observation of lawsuits are not shared. They are not shared with the people on trial and their lawyers. Amnesty also has the impression that these findings are not shared with the Saudi Government. Does the Minister recognise that statement from Amnesty's report?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u168	I don't recognize them. We are talking about this proactively. I'd like to check exactly whether everything is shared and by whom and at what point, but I don't recognize that statement. I have just said that I think it is important to quote this Amnesty report and that there are a number of points that we, and others, are discussing with the Saudi Government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u169	Of course, it would be good if that were the case, let that be the case! But Amnesty doesn't just say that information isn't shared with the defendants and their lawyers? If the Minister is unable to respond on a case-by-case basis, I would ask him to look again at that particular point in the report, either to discuss it with Amnesty or to inform the Chamber about it. That's weird!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u170	I'm not sure what's weird. I have just indicated how seriously I take Amnesty's report and that the Netherlands is at the forefront of it. The Netherlands does this on all fronts, public and private. I have indicated that we are attending this kind of lawsuit and that, of course, we are sharing the findings with the people who are involved. Of course, I would like to look again at Amnesty's report and see if we have followed the last recommendation, but I think we will go into the details very much. I think it is important to achieve results in this area. I'd like to put that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u171	Mr Servaes, you may ask one last specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u172	I won't mention it in detail. If a human rights organisation says it does not feel sufficiently informed and that this also applies to the human rights defenders who Amnesty stands up for and the human rights lawyers who still have the guts to do that kind of thing in that country, then that is a serious point. I cannot monitor the contact the Minister has with the authorities there. I think Amnesty can't do that either. But this is a little more concrete. I would ask the Minister to go into this in more detail and come back to that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u173	I didn't say it was a detail, did I? I have just indicated how essential I think it is to share that information. I have indicated how important it is for these matters to be properly shared. And of course we're watching that. I do not understand exactly what the problem is, because I agree with Mr Servaes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u174	Then that misunderstanding is out of the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u175	The Minister's response to my first-term question is a little miraculous. I asked him whether the Foreign Minister does not have a clear coordinating role in what you raise from the cabinet or not and how you do it in the area of human rights. He replied that this is not his job, but that it is always agreed in advance and that all of them know exactly what they are doing. This seems contradictory to me. If there is coordination, it will, I presume, take place with this Minister of Foreign Affairs and his department and I can also assume that the knowledge and expertise about what you are discussing, what is going on and how you are doing it, will be present in his department. Didn't the Minister actually say "no" and mean "yes"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u176	I think I have indeed expressed myself unclearly. I'm taking it back. Of course, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is the prime minister responsible for human rights policy. I am also monitoring coordination throughout government policy, although perhaps not strictly constitutional. I would like to point out that it is not just mine, because then it would be the case that the Foreign Minister discusses human rights and that the others do not have to do so. I think we are on the same page here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u177	That's the answer I can use. Of course, we do not want to send the Minister of Foreign Affairs with any other govern ment person, because we would not see him here anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u178	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u179	Does the Minister recognise that the blockade of Yemen by military means has resulted in a humanitarian disaster for the people of Yemen? Does he see that the supply of arms or components for weapons systems to Saudi Arabia should therefore be stopped?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u180	I will come back later to the question of arms supplies, because that is a separate block. Freedom of religion and belief is a priority in my policy. Like Mr Voordewind and Mr Knops, I am deeply concerned about religious minorities who cannot confess their faith in freedom. Everyone remembers the images of the Jezidis fleeing into the mountains in northern Iraq. Mr Knops mentioned the terrible situation of Christians in ISIS area. This is why I participated in an international conference in Athens last month where all the religious leaders from the region met to talk very seriously about this. I noticed they weren't talking to each other. I spoke with the religious leaders of Christians, Jews and Muslims, and above all about the destruction of a number of communities, especially Christian ones, in the Middle East. I said there that I cannot imagine the Middle East without religious minorities, because that is a situation that is threatening. Nor can I imagine Europe without those minorities. The frightening growth of all kinds of manifestations of anti-Semitism and anti-Islamism only makes it worse. The priority is very important. The problem is not limited to one region. Three quarters of the world's population live in countries where freedom of religion and belief is restricted by the state or by others. As an example of my performance, I mention the contacts with Pakistan. We are constantly working there because you are in such danger to raise that position. The human rights ambassador does that. I did that during the bilateral consultations. This was recently done by our new ambassador to Islamabad. I also contacted my counterpart at the ASEM conference two weeks ago. The Netherlands condemns the attacks on religious minorities in Pakistan. I am also doing this in the light of previous motions on this subject. Last year, we successfully insisted on the firm anchoring of religious freedom in the new EU action plan on human rights and democracy. Let me give you another example. A pilot religious freedom was launched in 2009. The activities in this area have now become part of standing policy, in accordance with the Voordewind motion. In countries such as China, India, Egypt, Kazakhstan, Armenia, Nigeria, Pakistan and Sudan, projects are underway under the Human Rights Fund, including in the currently very difficult countries such as Egypt and Pakistan. Following Mr Voordewind's request for additional resources, I can assure you that both the department and the embassies are actively engaged in projects specifically in the area of religious freedom. Mr. Chairman. Normally we would talk a lot about Russia, but that country has now been less on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u181	Mr Voordewind, on the previous point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u182	Since the amendment is so closely in line with the Minister's texts, for which I thank him very much, it is perhaps appropriate that he should now give an opinion on my amendment on religious freedom. Does that fit in with the order of business?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u183	I assume that we will then be discussing the amendment to item No. 15. I see from Mr Voordewind that he does not know the number. He must, of course, know his own amendments. Minister, is that all right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u184	That's convenient. I will come back to it in the second term, but at least I am sympathetic to it. I also thought the lyrics were good, but I'd like to take a look at that. I thought they were asking for the same amount of money to be made available for this type of project, given the urgency of the situation. I have to take a look at the details, but basically I'm in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u185	Amendments are usually about money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u186	It is very good that the Minister indicated that he attended the Athens conference and that he showed personal commitment, the SGP Group appreciates very much. We note in our meetings with organisations that stand up for minorities in the Middle East, that they often feel forgotten and feel that the world is not sufficiently aware of their position. Can the Minister indicate what these people can derive a glimmer of hope from?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u187	I think that is a very difficult question, I have to tell you honestly. I think these people should have hope. That is why I think it is important that we do everything we can in the fight for tolerance, protection of people and an end to the conflicts in the Middle East in particular. At the moment when you're not sure that's already there, you don't give people enough hope, for example, take the Jezidis. You know that in all kinds of ways, even up to Aleppo and Idlip, we are trying to reach the people who are going to do it with rather complicated projects. I also believe that politicians should speak publicly, for example in the European Union and in Athens, to the various religious leaders. To them we must speak out against hatred, anti-Semitism, anti-Christian thinking and sometimes Islamophobia. The hope lies in the fact that we speak out with each other that solidarity for those people. For many years now, I have found it a major problem that we are doing very little at international level to protect people. I'm very much in favour of that myself. When we just had this complicated discussion about whether or not we should take military action, how we can better protect people and what is effective or counterproductive, I also indicated that there should be an agenda that gives people hope in the end. Finally, I hope that there will be a challenge and a promise from Vienna. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked about the Russian Federation. It is becoming less and less predictable with all its consequences for the region. As has already been said, Russia is working on the international rules of the game. There can therefore be no return to business as usual. We've discussed it here before. The sanctions will continue to apply as long as the Russian attitude does not change for the better. Contacts with the country of course remain important, but they are both business and functional. We want to keep the political channels open to the highest level, because we need to be able to engage with Russia, for example in the resolution of MH17, Syria and the fight against terrorism. We won't be able to agree on everything very soon, but slamming all the doors leads nowhere. I believe that we have also discussed today whether we should join an alliance in which the Russian Federation is also fighting against ISIS. Of course, we look at our common interests, but we do not do so in such a way that we sell other principles. That is the discussion on whether there is a link between Ukraine and Syria. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has, of course, also to do with energy. It is even one of our priorities, precisely because there is a foreign political and a geopolitical side to it. At the June Foreign Affairs Council, I spoke to my European colleagues about how we can prevent the Russian Federation from deciding exactly how the gas is going. This includes the Energy Diplomacy Action Plan which the Foreign Affairs Council welcomed on 20 July. The cabinet believes, as we know, that a unilateral dependence on a single supplier or source should be avoided. This applies both to individual EU Member States and to the EU as a whole. Promoting diversification of sources, suppliers and supply routes of energy is therefore one of the main objectives. To this end, the European Union's commitment to an energy union should also be pursued. In this Energy Union, we want to establish rules so that a company such as Gazprom, for example, cannot determine how the transit of energy is organised through Europe. The broader neighbourhood policy must also be subject to critical scrutiny when it comes to relations with Russia. Pressure, dialogue and active support for stability are the key words. This also includes a free, independent and lively media landscape. I have therefore decided to allocate EUR 1.3 million to independent Russian-speaking journalism in the region. It is a programme that is the result of an in-depth study of the European Endowment for Democracy and is to be carried out Free Press Unlimited, working closely with independent media organisations that are already active in the region. We want to encourage independent press in the region and improve the availability of independent news, so that there is also something to read for the Russian-speaking public. We must not underestimate what political technology Russia is currently using. This also requires an important answer. In the light of the time, I will not go into exactly the extent and nature of the project, but I would, of course, like to keep the Chamber very informed. I now come to the next point, namely Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u188	I think that Mr Knops of the CDA has another question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u189	It is interesting to consider Russia's position or, rather, the way we look at Russia in this budget debate. Previously, Mr Ten Broeke referred to a kind of tripartite, namely enemies, friends and uncomfortable friends. I think we can now describe Russia as something between 'no friend' and 'uncomfortable friend'. Does the Minister also see opportunities, for example at the level of the UN Security Council, through the actual fate that Russia has suffered from the exploding of the Russian airplane, Russia's renewed involvement in the fight against ISIS and its position in the Security Council?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u190	Sorry, I didn't understand the last point of the question. I apologize.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u191	I thought the Minister was thinking about something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u192	No, I just didn't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u193	Sorry. I was concerned about the fact that Russia has changed its role, certainly from our point of view, a role that is more close to the category of 'uncomfortable friends'. Does this new role mean that the Minister sees opportunities for a change in Russia's position in the UN Security Council until recently? Does this also offer opportunities for solutions, such as those in Syria?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u194	I think the latter is important, and I hope so, precisely for the reasons I have just mentioned: combating ISIS effectively would be best done on the basis of a joint UN resolution, on which Russia does not veto or somehow thinks otherwise. I do not believe that this is in line with the expectation that Russia itself has been affected, at least in its own words, by the bombing in Sinai. It's a little early, though. We are now two weeks away and countries naturally have interests. We cannot in one day suddenly let go of a completely different philosophy, when there was a watershed like that which we discussed here in the Chamber. I would like to point out that the Russian Federation has not so much intervened in Syria because of the fight against ISIS, at least, certainly not only to keep President Assad in the saddle and to defend a number of maritime interests. We are going to see if the complex situation for them is now happening in Syria, and I will go along with Mr Knops with it, could lead to normal business cooperation on a number of problems that we have together, including terror.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u195	Thank you. Of course, I am also asking this because there has been regular discussion here about international law mandates. They could increase the legitimate capacity of the West in Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u196	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u197	If Russia could play a positive role in this, it could open up. This could increase the toolbox of the foreign ministers. We could do more and be more effective in stopping the terror and genocide that takes place in certain places.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u198	Yes. I have said the following before, including in other discussions with the Chamber. In the difficult situation we are in, we slowly but surely also get a glimmer of hope that diplomacy can work. I refer to the agreements with Iran. And now hopefully there will be an agreement for Syria as well. There are also common interests with countries that do not need to be your friends. You don't have to love each other to have common interests. As an example, I would like to mention the fact that no country has any more interest in the total destruction of Syria. That has nothing to do with idealism. But this can lead to better cooperation on a number of points and can give impetus to certain discussions. The same applies to the Netherlands. That is why I have always said when it comes to the relationship with the Russian Federation that the Netherlands has a strong position, but that it does want to keep the channels of communication open. I think it is right that the Netherlands has a strong position; the Chamber has also urged me to do so. I see that Mr Ten Broeke fully supports that position and that of keeping these channels of communication open. I'm coming to Ukraine. Despite the multitude of challenges, Ukraine stands still. The peaceful process of local elections on 25 October is an important step in the process of change in Ukraine. The country will now have to pursue further decentralisation. A bill on this matter has now been passed in the Ukrainian Parliament. The Netherlands remains unabated by the Minsk agreements as the framework for lasting peace in eastern Ukraine. This, of course, has everything to do with Russia. The ceasefire that has actually been achieved since September is the beginning but is not enough. Both Ukraine and the separatists and Russia have committed themselves in Minsk to a broad set of agreements aimed at bringing a lasting end to the conflict and restoring Ukraine's sovereignty in the eastern part of the country. All parties have also committed themselves to the territorial integrity of Ukraine. There is therefore no question of a division in that sense. The OSCE plays a central role in achieving a political solution, both in its role as coordinator in the elaboration of the Minsk agreements and in its role as a monitor in the field of ceasefire and in the withdrawal of weapons. The Netherlands is also making an important financial contribution to the OSCE monitoring mission. Our country also makes a personal contribution. I reinforced it because I think this is important. We have also discussed this with the Ukrainian Government in recent days. It has been asked whether the Association Agreement has contributed to the instability in Ukraine. I want to be very clear about that. We shouldn't turn things around. The association agreement has not been forced on Ukraine by anyone. The conclusion of an association agreement was a free choice of the Ukrainian government. The Maidan protests were precisely against President Yanukovych's decision not to sign the association agreement under pressure from President Putin. Nor can the European Union be attributed to Russia's confrontation and aggression that followed revolutions in Kiev. In the meantime, the agreement has been signed by the Ukrainian Government and approved by the Ukrainian Parliament. Both were elected by a large majority in successive elections. I therefore conclude that the association agreement has broad support among the Ukrainian people. I am grateful for the question as to whether this agreement will lead to EU membership for Ukraine, because it will allow me to make the next point very clear. No, this agreement is not a gateway to EU membership. The Association Agreement does not lead to Ukraine's accession to the European Union. The European Union has such association agreements, for example, with countries in the direct region, but also with countries outside. For example, there are agreements with Morocco and Lebanon. Nor will these countries join the Union. Ukraine has chosen a course for Europe. The country has the ambition to focus more on European standards and standards. That is positive, it can bring stability and prosperity, and that is in our interest. The agreement rightly recognises that. And, of course, Ukraine is a European country and has the right to apply for membership in accordance with the Treaties of the European Union. However, this has nothing to do with this association agreement. For let me be clear: the word 'EU membership' is nowhere in the agreement and is not its purpose either. In particular, the association agreement provides a huge boost for relations between the European Union and Ukraine. The association agreement is not just between the Netherlands and Ukraine. 28 Member States are involved. All EU Member States hope that the Convention can enter into force as soon as possible. This treaty has been negotiated and signed. It is good for the Netherlands and for Europe. The majority of Member States have already completed the ratification process. Greece did that yesterday. In addition to the Netherlands, four Member States have not yet completed the ratification process: Belgium, Cyprus, Italy and the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic and Cyprus are in the final stage of the ratification process. The cabinet will follow the law on the consultative referendum. This is leading the way in which the cabinet will deal with the results. Why have resources been made available for the UN Security Council campaign, but not for the association agreement, Mr Sjoerdsma asked. The consultative referendum is a serious matter that calls for a debate in society on the content of the Treaty. That is of a very different order than a campaign for a Dutch seat in the United Nations. That does not alter the fact that the cabinet supports the association agreement and will take part in the debate. We will explain why we support this treaty. I come to a question that has been asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u199	But not after Mr Sjoerdsma asked a short question on this last subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u200	In fact, I have a question on the previous issue, namely the Minsk agreement. I would like a brief appreciation of the Minister for the way in which Russia complies with the Minsk agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u201	To a limited extent. You can see an improvement in the situation. A number of light weapons have been withdrawn. At the same time, there have also been a number of incidents in the past period. The Minsk agreement is, as is well known, in the end about the restoration of territorial integrity of Ukraine. There are problems with the operation of the observer mission. Then there are elements like drones. At the moment, therefore, we cannot talk about full implementation, not at all, of the Minsk agreement. It is quieter, but we still need a lot, including support for free and fair local elections under Ukrainian law in Donetsk and Lugansk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u202	I share that assessment. I am asking because European sanctions are linked to full compliance with the agreement. Especially after what happened in Paris, I can see from some of my fellow MEPs who are not necessarily of the same party's colour, the idea that we might be able to reduce sanctions slowly, now that there is cooperation with Russia in Syria. I would like to confirm to the Minister that at least as far as the Netherlands is concerned, there can be no question of reducing sanctions until the Minsk agreement has been fully respected.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u203	Yes, I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u204	I welcome the Minister's words on the association agreement with Ukraine. I would like to make it clear that the cabinet is strongly in favour of the association agreement. Perhaps in abundance, I ask the following question. In recent times, we have received signals that the cabinet wants to be sidelined in the run-up to the referendum, in the sense of 'that is to parties in society'. Have I understood correctly to the Minister that there will be a clear statement from the cabinet in the run-up to the referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u205	Sure, I just gave it to you. We will intervene in the debate, as a cabinet should. The same applies to others who feel called upon to support this agreement, just as others will interfere in the debate which has a different view on it. The question I was asked at the time is: are you going to run a separate government campaign, so a campaign with a lot of money and resources? Following Mr Sjoerdsma's question, I said that we are in favour of the association agreement. We think there are very good arguments for this. We will actively try to convince people of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u206	You were going to speak briefly about the arms supplies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u207	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u208	We're really gonna keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u209	I think I have an interruption in two short deadlines.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u210	No, I didn't agree on time limits. I said we'd watch the clock. We're just gonna keep going. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u211	You asked about the arms exports. The Netherlands' arms exports policy is restrictive. It is well known that the Foreign Minister is examining this on the basis of a large number of criteria based on what we have discussed here very often. That is the European arms export policy. This means that, in the case of Saudi Arabia, we are also considering on a case-by-case basis whether there are risks to, for example, stability or the use of weapons for a number of issues that the Chamber has just mentioned in relation to Yemen. Everything is being looked at very seriously. We're gonna do that individually, like we always do. That's restrictive. I'm against an arms embargo. Firstly, I do not think it makes any sense to set that up from the Netherlands, also because we have a good policy. Secondly, it is best to do this in the way I have just described.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u212	Now I am going to feel guilty retroactively about keeping Mr Grashoff as brief, because I see all kinds of people walking to the interrupting microphone again. So I owe you that interruption, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u213	I'd like to ask you a few questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u214	Can you do that briefly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u215	I'll keep it as short as I can. The Minister himself said in a debate not so long ago that what is happening there, what Saudi Arabia is doing in Yemen and the way it behaves in the UN Human Rights Council, is the erosion of a standard that we all consider dear. I think there's no doubt about that in this Chamber. Each political party thinks so, and so does the minister. If war crimes are committed there, including by Saudi Arabia, is it not wise to say: we are not doing it for a moment; we are not supplying arms to Saudi Arabia until it agrees to an independent investigation into what exactly happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u216	The answer is no. I don't think it works that way either. By the way, there is already an investigation. A different method has been adopted. The Chamber knows what pressure this has put on the Netherlands. We're just standing up. I would point out that earlier today we discussed the need for the fight against ISIS. Saudi Arabia is also needed. We will look very critically at arms exports in general towards the Middle East. We do this case-by-case, based on the criteria that the Chamber knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u217	The Minister does that case-by-case and he will look at it restrictively. Mr Van Bommel will perhaps say something about the way in which the Dutch weapons are being deployed on the ground at the moment, but I note that European partners are still supplying weapons, which one might wonder whether this should actually be done, also in view of the European criteria to which the Minister rightly refers. Unfortunately, however strict we are, fellow European countries are not. From that point of view, I would nevertheless like the Minister of State to call for a much more restrictive policy and de facto not to deliver until they cooperate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u218	Mr Sjoerdsma rightly points out that we have had debates on this before. It was said that it is so important that you jointly give European substance to what you are doing in relation to your arms exports. So that's what we're doing. All these kinds of issues are discussed in the working groups that deal with them. I believe that it has already been mentioned in previous debates that arms exports policy is restrictive. It looks precisely at the elements mentioned by Mr Sjoerdsma. On this basis, the Dutch Government takes its decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u219	Does the Minister consider that, when considering arms supplies on a case-by-case basis, there should also be no provision for systems that play a role in the blockade of Yemen? Stop arms dealership just issued a report on that. This shows that communication systems for tanks and parts for fighter aircraft used by Saudi Arabia in the blockade of Yemen have also been delivered from the Netherlands. Does the Minister consider that to be justified under the present circumstances?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u220	I cannot deal with these specific cases, but of course these kinds of elements play a role in balancing. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u221	In general terms, does the Minister think that a permit should be granted for equipment used in the blockade causing a humanitarian disaster for the people of Yemen? Does the Minister think that such a delivery should be granted from the Netherlands, when we know what its consequences are?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u222	I would just like to point out that there is a development in relation to this blockade. We have, of course, followed it closely. Mr Van Bommel is assuming an assumption as to who is responsible there at exactly what time, while we have just established a verification mechanism with the support of Saudi Arabia. That is the crux of the matter. Restrictive arms exports policy means, of course, that we are also looking at the use in humanitarian situations, the possible use in attacks on civilians and so on. In doing so, I have completed my first reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u223	The House is very grateful to you for this, although I still see a broom car function for Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u224	I have to get it out of my head, because I expected the minister to come up with it on his own. It concerns the issue of labelling, on which a number of groups have raised questions. In the written reply, the Minister writes that he wants to follow European policy in this area. The Minister was of the opinion that, if I take it out of my mind, we should follow European policy in areas which have been annexed or disputed. My view is that there is no European policy for this. In any case, I am not aware of a directive which, unlike the directive that is now being adopted, is fully in line with consistent consumer logic. I think that is strange, because it seems to me that it is difficult to fit in with policies that do not exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u225	I don't understand the question. It's not a question, it's a statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u226	I will try to put it more clearly. The Minister says on labelling that he agrees with the section of the Chamber which says that you should do so for all areas on which the same statements are made by the European Council. Those are disputed areas, annexed areas. There is only policy in this particular directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u227	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u228	I think it is wonderful to be consistent and then announce it for all those areas or to follow that policy. However, there is no such policy. Whether we are going to try to achieve that policy ourselves, then the Minister must do so and promise to do so, preferably in plain and simple terms, or the Chamber must help the Minister a little.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u229	You raised this in the first place, Mr Ten Broeke. You said: 'We now have this in relation to occupied territories, but why do we not do so in other cases? You are now taking Israel out of it. That is your reasoning, but don't do it in other cases." You asked whether this should not be done in other cases. In the written reply, I stated that you were right to do so. I don't have a problem with it either. The Netherlands is already in favour of this, but we must see if we can get other countries to do so. I do not disagree with you on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u230	I have a short question that I think has remained, unless I have missed the answer myself. I asked why the increase in the stability fund and the human rights fund is only one-off and not structural.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u231	This is now in the budget. Next year, I have to look further into whether I can continue to do so. Mr Sjoerdsma knows that the foreign affairs budget is very small and that I think it is important to intensify on a number of points. That is mainly about these points. We will see if we can continue this next year. That's what I can do right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u232	Then let me encourage the Minister to do so. His analysis is that it is essential that more money be made available for this purpose. I fully share that analysis. If that can still be made structural, I see that colleagues Servaes and Ten Broeke too...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u233	This is more for your second term. Do you have another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u234	Here's the question. I call on the Minister to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u235	Mr Sjoerdsma asks a bit about the familiar road. I think any foreign minister would like more money. If I promise to do so, Mr Dijsselbloem will call me tonight to ask why I have promised to do so, since there is no money at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u236	Mr Dijsselbloem is the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u237	The Minister of Finance; thank you. I hope that Mr Sjoerdsma will be able to make that clear to me. I think it is important that international policy be strengthened at this time. That is why, on a number of points, I have strongly supported the increase in defence expenditure, the increase in the amount available for missions and the trend in the strengthening of international diplomacy and associated resources. It is important that we continue this. We will, of course, consider this further when there is a next budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u238	I would have liked to ask this question during the Minister's first term, but it did not fit under any of the headings. So I'm just gonna ask the question. When replying in writing, I am quite unclear. I asked the Minister what lessons he had learned in the Arctic expedition. The answer says that the Arctic developments also offer opportunities for Dutch business. That can only be the climate problem, the heating of the earth and the melting of the polar caps. Is it not very cynical to say that this would bring economic benefits for the Netherlands? Do I understand that Arctic developments mean global warming and the melting of polar caps and that they allow sustainable economic developments, such as gas drilling? Or is that too cynical?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u239	No, not at all. I think you're absolutely right. You're asking me what I learned from the Arctic trip. Well, I'll be busy for a while, but the key point is what you're saying. Everyone knows that and it is important to say that again two weeks before the meeting on climate change. You can see there on the spot that it's going twice as fast as anywhere else. That's what all those polar expeditioners and researchers have seen. The risks of that are enormous. That is why we went to Mr Clinton's climate summit, and that is why we are continuing this polar research. We want to defend the climate and research the way it develops. Mr Wassenberg refers to an equally great reality there, namely that because of the fact that this is changing so quickly, you are already seeing economic developments. For example, you can travel from Tokyo to London very quickly on the north side. Automatically, developments are also taking place in the areas of security, economics and politics. That is why it is so important that they are much better balanced and that the climate is not sacrificed to other opportunities which will undoubtedly develop and which are already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u240	Yes, but it says it contributes to sustainable Arctic economic activities. This means more or less that global warming, which is caused by the use of fossil fuels, causes polar caps to melt, making it easier to drill for other fossil fuels. Isn't that cynical?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u241	That would be cynical. When you talk to the original population, who has lived there for years, you notice that it has an interest in the fact that it is sustainable. That is why the word "sustainable" has been used. There is a critical attitude towards oil drilling. I took it at the climate summit, too. I think we are more in agreement than Mr Wassenberg thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u242	My compliments to Mr Wassenberg. I think he's reading it very sharply. I find the Minister's answer a little more logical than what it says. My question is about labelling. At the moment, there is European legislation focusing on labelling, but it focuses on the situation in the Palestinian territories occupied by Israel. Can I take the Minister's answer in such a way that he intends to actively support and promote European policy in this directive in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u243	I haven't answered that yet. There was a question from Mr Ten Broeke whether we should do it in other situations. There is a directive and there has been clarification from Mrs Mogherini. We will actively and clearly bring out information for consumers and businesses. That is also Mr Kamp's responsibility. That's what he does.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u244	I'll take a look around. Mr Voordewind and Mr Knops still want to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u245	In my first term, I made a number of comments on reconciliation projects in Israel. I do not think the Minister has yet responded. I know he's excited about it, but I'd like to have a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u246	I'm showing the enthusiasm. I would like to apologize for the fact that it may not be clear when I deal with the amendments and motions. I have dealt with a number of points which fit into the first-term package. I'm very much in favour of that. When people stop talking to each other, as you can see between Israel and the Palestinians, those kinds of projects, which I myself have been to, are incredibly important. People are trying to reach each other against the cliffs. Sometimes they're people who speak and see each other for the first time. That is so terribly important at a time when there is far too little going on about that problem, but well, we have already discussed that elsewhere. I have that enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u247	That's good to know. I also asked another question in the first term. Before we move on to the second term of the Chamber, it is useful to have clarification on that. It's about Palestinian terrorists getting paid by the PLO. The Court has previously unanimously stated that such perverse payments are the more victims, the higher the premium is to be rejected. I would like to hear a response from the Minister, apart from that amendment, a more principled position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u248	I share that principle. I do not think that is a good thing. I raised that again at the time of President Abbas' visit. All I see is that there is a slight change, now that responsibility has gone towards the PLO. It's not a good thing, I'd like to say that here. I have done so on a regular basis in the direction of the Palestinians.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u249	It's been noted. I call Mr Knops, the fence shutter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u250	Somebody's gotta be the last one. In the first term I asked a question about an aid programme for Aramean displaced persons and refugees in Syria. I seem to recall that the Minister did not answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u251	That's right. I should take a look at that, apologize to you. I do not know if it is a specific project that you are asking for support for; politically or financially. That financial is difficult for me to say, because it goes through all kinds of rules that have to do with transparency. Of course, like you, I am concerned about the issue of religion and ethnic minorities, as I said. There's money for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u252	Can you live with a second-term answer, if it is concrete, Mr Knops?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u253	I'm very practical. I will come back to it in the second term anyway, and then the Minister will be able to respond to it. I'd be fine with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u254	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u255	That brings us to the end of the Minister's reply, for which we are grateful.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u256	In the second term, I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Bommel.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u257	Madam President. We have made some progress in the debate on the consequences of Paris that we have had over the last few days. This morning we discussed it with the Prime Minister and with the Foreign Minister. For my group, it was important to know what was going on with Article 42.7 of the Treaty of the European Union, which deals with the provision of assistance when one of the Member States is attacked. The international component is also on the agenda. That discussion was caused by the use of the term "war." On the last point, there is now clarity and I am also thinking about the first point, although we have to wait and see what it will mean for the Netherlands. The obligation to provide assistance as set out in Article 42.7 may concern military assistance where, in this case, the Member State of the Netherlands is, of course, always responsible for the question of whether delivery is being made and, if so, what is being delivered. For my group, its scope is still unclear. The question whether the Netherlands can also be called upon to supply military or equipment for something in Mali or something in Syria will not be answered until the specific request is made. That is what we are waiting for. The government says that for the time being it is not going to bomb Syria for logistical reasons: it is too busy in the air with Russians. In the first term, I have argued that such action is not helpful in combating terrorism in Europe itself, because the terrorists are already among us. This proved to be the case in France, but also in other countries in Europe, possibly also in the Netherlands. Extra violence there can unintentionally lead to a very wrong reaction. I would like a response from the Minister. In Vienna we are working on the diplomatic route to peace with the first goal of a cease-fire. I have always supported the Minister in that and I will continue to do so. I am not entirely satisfied with the Minister's answers on Saudi Arabia. It is precisely Saudi Arabia's role in the conflict in Yemen that is something that my group is stuck with. I have a proposal on this point because I am not reassured by the Minister's answer to the question on military equipment from the Netherlands which can be used in the blockade. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that recent research indicates that military equipment originating in the Netherlands is likely to be deployed in the war in Yemen;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the use of military equipment from the Netherlands in the war in and blockade of Yemen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Bommel and Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-V-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u258	This time, the issue of Israel-Palestine was mainly about what has already been decided. It was about standing policy, about labelling. It is now being carried out and I await what this will yield in Dutch practice. The Minister explained this well, also in writing. We know from what bodies in the Netherlands we can expect action when there are misleading labels saying that something was made in Israel, whereas in reality it comes from an occupied area. I am sensitive to the debate that Mr Ten Broeke has raised here once again. I myself have always made a point of this in previous contributions on Western Sahara: equal monks, equal hoods. Occupations, we should not want to deal with them. If they have been condemned by the UN, they are in violation of international law. So we need to know the origin of products, including those from occupied or disputed territories. You shouldn't just focus on Israel and Palestine. This must be a general principle of policy. That is why I would like to put the next motion to the Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important for consumers to obtain correct information on the origin of products;]] [[Whereas various products come from conflict zones, or from areas occupied, illegally annexed or otherwise controversial, whereas this is not indicated on the labelling of those products;]] [[calls on the Government to promote, at European level, guidelines for the labelling of products from all conflict zones and areas occupied or illegally annexed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Bommel and Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-V-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u259	I understand the proposal, but should we not agree on a certain 'order of conduct' in order to avoid the appearance of discrimination towards Israel? Shouldn't the principle of equal monks, equal hoods be equal? Let us now wait for a moment to check the labelling of products from Israel until we have these other areas as well, so that we can see whether they can all be imported at the same time. Does Mr Van Bommel agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u260	I disagree. I would like to endorse the Minister's view that there is already an existing policy on labelling and origin. As far as I am concerned, there is more to it than a shortcoming. The scope of the policy does not go far enough. I have always said that products from Western Sahara should also have proper labels. There are undoubtedly more areas. This will also apply to Crimea. We need to map that. The one-sided focus on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is really crazy to me. We need to get rid of that. We must apply international law to the whole world. Mr Voordewind can certainly quote this outside this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u261	I welcome these last words. We did not get to know the situation in Western Sahara, Northern Cyprus and Tibet until yesterday. They've been known for years. The situation in Israel has been known for years. Doesn't Mr Van Bommel think that, in order to avoid all this appearance, we should use equal hoods as a starting point for equal monks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u262	Yes, but I am of course first trying to get a motion adopted that is so easily accessible that I can get the Christian Union and probably also the VVD and the PvdA. You have to start somewhere. That's also the experience you gain here after a few years. It is a small step, but precisely to the goal set by Mr Voordewind. In fact, I would prefer to table a motion to regulate it for all those areas. That is going a little too fast, because that is something you must also regulate at European level. I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to go to Brussels with this motion in his hand so that he can say that he must also do so from the House of Representatives. I see the motion as a policy support. Together, you're strong. I hope that this motion will be widely supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u263	I wholeheartedly support Mr Van Bommel's desire to be consistent in this area. It's a good thing he's taking this point. Yeah, he's done that before. I support him in that, but I will come up with a proposal myself later. The question is whether we should also apply equality in implementation. I do not want to wait until this is settled for all occupied or annexed areas, but rather in the field of information so that it does not become a rattle. Today we are talking about Israel and the Palestinian territories, about Tibet in six months and perhaps about Western Sahara in six months, as Mr Van Bommel so insists. I don't think that's a good idea. Does Mr Van Bommel also propose that there should also be equal hoods in the implementation process?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u264	Then I would be inconsistent with my earlier observation that this is a matter of standing policy. This is policy. This has to be done by now. The Food and Consumer Authority should monitor this already. Customs should be able to check that already. However, it does not happen or it does not happen enough, and I am very sorry about that. I welcome the Minister's position and Europe's attitude. I am that with the push that Mr Ten Broeke gives, we now also name and control the other areas in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u265	I don't think that's quite right. A directive has the necessary degrees of freedom for Member States, including in relation to the time after which it is intended to be introduced. So I do not think this is entirely correct, but perhaps we can take another look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u266	Yes. Perhaps it would also be a good idea for the Minister to say something about this in his term. I thought that directives should simply be implemented by the Member States. In my view, this is just legislation and it is not an optional matter. But let us give the Minister the opportunity to speak on this last word. My final seconds are devoted to Dutch-Indies, a recurring theme. We now have the book of Gert Oostindie. As far as I'm concerned, that's clear. I'd prefer to move on to that wide-ranging investigation right away. People are still alive. We can still talk to people. Now that the Minister is blocking this again and I do not see a majority in the Chamber for this, I will try to put the committee to work in this area, for example through a hearing or in another way. Let's look as Chamber and politically to see if we can get on with this together. I welcome the positive moves that I see some of my colleagues making.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u267	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his first answer. An important point of difference remains between the Minister and my group with regard to lifting the caveat, the self-chosen restriction to operate over Syria. However, the Minister says he does not object in principle. In that case, I would say that there would be no objection to lifting that caveat, which could even contribute to the political process. We shall certainly come back to this. I would also like to congratulate Mr Wassenberg. He introduced a new phenomenon for me: ecocide. I've never heard of that, but I'm sure it's my fault. I look forward to the next debate, in which he may be able to explain to me whether it is a principle of international law that armed intervention could bring about. We'll see about that. I would like to thank those colleagues in the Chamber who have spoken positively about the coalition plan. As far as I am concerned, this can be supported by everyone. I hope so, too. It has three tracks: hard security; aid, development and trade; social resilience.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u268	Mr Ten Broeke said that there was a great deal of appreciation for the coalition plan. The question is: which coalition?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u269	In any case, not the coalition that is active over Syria, but the coalition that is active in this Chamber: that of the PvdA and the VVD. I was hoping to greet you in that. That's why I was talking about "the coalition." This includes an amendment to the UN's contributions to the organisations dealing with refugees. It has already been distributed. To record this also for 2017, which unfortunately cannot be done per amendment, I will submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the need for effective reception of refugees in the region to cope with and control large migratory flows to Europe and the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas reception in the region has thus become a priority in Dutch foreign policy;]] [[Whereas voluntary contributions to international organisations should reflect the priorities set in foreign policy;]] [[whereas the Netherlands voluntarily pays tens of millions of euros to various international organisations, but the distribution does not adequately reflect the priorities of Dutch foreign policy;]] [[Calls on the Government to continue its voluntary payments to international organisations in 2017 with the following amounts:]] [[an increase of EUR 13 million in the voluntary contribution to UNHCR;]] [[an increase of EUR 2 million in the voluntary contribution to UNICEF;]] [[an increase of EUR 1 million in the voluntary contribution to UNWOMEN;]] [[an increase of EUR 1.5 million in the voluntary contribution to UNDP;]] [[a reduction of EUR 2 million in the voluntary contribution to UNEP;]] [[a reduction of EUR 2 million in the voluntary contribution to UNESCO-IHE;]] [[a reduction of EUR 2 million in the voluntary contribution to UNAIDS;]] [[a EUR 9 million reduction in the voluntary contribution to the Asian Development Bank;]] [[a reduction of EUR 2.5 million in the voluntary contribution to WB-ESMAP,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ten Broeke and Mr Servaes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-V-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u270	We also want to focus on soft loans and trade preferences. The Minister's reply was very timely, but not so much with regard to the economic aspect. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the refugee crisis in the Middle East and North Africa is putting serious pressure on stability in the first reception countries such as Lebanon and Jordan;]] [[Whereas the European commitment to regional reception creates the need to support reception countries, including in our own interest, in the financing of regional reception;]] [[Whereas, in order to give them more perspective, the Dutch Government can support such countries through soft loans and trade preferences;]] [[noting that middle-income countries such as Lebanon and Jordan are not yet eligible for soft loans and that more can be done to meet these countries in the field of trade preferences;]] [[Whereas, with a targeted package of measures, such as soft loans from multilateral banks and trade preferences, we can not only offer prospects for first countries of reception but also set conditions for the reception and readmission of refugees;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with other donor countries, to ensure that soft loans and trade preferences can also be provided in a structural manner to the countries of the Middle East and North Africa affected by the refugee crisis and not by definition as low income countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ten Broeke and Mr Servaes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-V-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u271	In the first term, we talked about a safety trail. This concerns border surveillance and the fight against trafficking in human beings. In addition to this afternoon's debate, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Europe is facing a "ring of instability" at the EU's external borders and that this situation calls for a more active abroad in which all the instruments of that policy (diplomacy, defence, aid and trade) are combined;]] [[Considering that a large stream of refugees and migrants are coming to Europe via smuggling routes that run through Africa and the Middle East and that some of these routes run through countries where UN missions are active;]] [[Considering that a more effective approach to trafficking in human beings and better European border surveillance is also being discussed at European level;]] [[Calls on the Government to make efforts to broaden the mandates of UN missions so that the identification and fight against trafficking in human beings becomes part of relevant countries and, in UN missions in which the Netherlands participates, make an active contribution to them;]] [[calls on the Government to work towards a more effective European approach to trafficking in human beings and better European border control and, where appropriate and possible, to make an active contribution to this process,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ten Broeke and Mr Servaes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-V-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u272	We have talked extensively about labelling. The motion I have prepared is actually very close to Mr Van Bommel's. As a result of the answer we will have to look at exactly how it is going to work out. At least I'll read the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission has announced the publication of new guidelines on the labelling of products originating in Israel produced from areas beyond the "Green Line";]] [[noting that the government has declared itself in favour of such labelling, as it allows consumers to make a more conscious choice when purchasing products from territories occupied or illegally annexed under international law;]] [[noting that there are also other areas occupied or illegally annexed under international law and that there are insufficient announcements of consumer information directives for these areas;]] [[whereas European consumers are not only entitled to transparency about the origin of products from the areas for which new guidelines have now been announced, but are, above all, entitled to a consistent labelling policy;]] [[calls on the Government not only to take stock at European level of whether there is European support for it but to acquire it actively and to advocate in the Foreign Affairs Council that the European Commission should also draw up guidelines for all products from all areas occupied or illegally annexed under international law in order to provide consumers with accurate, clear and consistent information on the true origin of products,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ten Broeke. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-V-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u273	On the basis of his motion, I also put my question to Mr Ten Broeke. Does he think that the introduction of labelling of these products should take place at the same time for the other areas?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u274	As far as I am concerned, the introduction of the directive is a fact. I have expressed my doubts and criticisms about this in the past. They have to do with the fact that, as far as I am concerned, this does not contribute to the peace process. It also anticipates the establishment of definitive limits, whereas, as far as I am concerned, this has to be done in negotiations. However, over and over again I am told that this has nothing to do with the peace process in the Middle East. So I now have the reality to accept that this directive will be introduced. I still have some doubts as to whether the introduction of guidelines is not a matter of light degrees of freedom, since they are not regulations. We'll find out from the minister later. Should this policy become and should the Netherlands insist on it before the European Council, including in other areas which have been annexed, I would urge that the principle of equal monks, equal hoods, be applied to consumers, suppliers and importers in the context of implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u275	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions and for the debate. I thought it was a good debate. Perhaps that had to do with the debate that preceded it, in which many things have been discussed; nevertheless, I would like to thank the Minister very much. I have very little speaking time, so I am right to table my three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is an accumulation of messages that would facilitate ISIS for Turkey, which calls for active and substantiated denial;]] [[Whereas the control at the Turkish border with ISIS area is insufficient;]] [[Whereas Turkey's commitment to support the fight against ISIS is currently being used too much as an opportunity to step up the fight against the Kurds;]] [[Whereas Turkey does not create sufficient obstacles to deter migrants from using Turkey as a springboard for Europe and does not seem to make sufficient efforts to stop boats full of migrants in Turkish waters;]] [[calls on the Government to step up pressure on Turkey on all the above-mentioned issues,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that Salafism in all currents favours the introduction of Sharia in an Islamic state, and considers the democratic rule of law as a form of idolatry;]] [[noting that according to the AIVD, salafism has become a growing pond for jihadism in recent years;]] [[Considering that the ideology of terrorist organisations such as Al-Qaeda and ISIS is based on Salafism;]] [[Whereas Salafism is an important root cause of jihadism;]] [[noting that non-free countries such as Saudi Arabia and Qatar distribute and finance Salafism abroad with a lot of money, including in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government to restrict foreign financing of Salafism in the Netherlands and to clearly explain to non-free countries to stop funding Salafism in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Knops and Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-V-23]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Knops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-V-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u276	I'm getting to my final motion. I have asked a question on this subject which has not yet been answered, but I have tabled a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that many international aid through NGOs does not or hardly reach vulnerable minorities in Iraq and Syria;]] [[whereas Germany has therefore set up a humanitarian aid programme specifically for the Aramean Christians, in collaboration with the Aramean organisations;]] [[whereas the German aid programme is successful but unfortunately not sufficient;]] [[calls on the government, like Germany, to set up a structural humanitarian aid and development programme for Aramean displaced persons and refugees from Syria and Iraq,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Knops, Mr Voordewind and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-V-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u277	I see my speaking time is up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u278	You've stayed neatly within the time frame.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u279	This ends my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u280	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for his first-term answers, for the answers we have received in writing and in particular for the commitments he has made in them. I mentioned Colombia in my first term. The Minister has indicated that he would like to explore what the Netherlands can contribute, specifically in the area of transitional justice. I thank him for that, because it is an important subject. If there is any news, the Chamber will be happy to be informed. This also applies to the organisation Epafras, which we discussed in the first term of the government. The Minister wants to see if he wants to allow direct access. I would also like to say that Mr Knops thinks that this is an important subject. I have not mentioned the Middle East peace process in my entire first term, but I would like to join those who apply the labelling directive consistently and consistently. I do not rule out the fact that Mr GroenLinks is going to table another motion on this subject, which includes my name. Perhaps after that we can go pimpampets on which of the three motions on this subject is the best. In any case, there is broad support for this. I would also like to argue that this consistency is not only spread across other areas from labelling, but that the EU is also so consistent as to implement the difference between Israel and the occupied Palestinian territories in full policy. I have seen in the written answers that concrete proposals within the European Union are also under consideration. I would therefore like to encourage the Minister to be active in this area. My final point concerns Saudi Arabia. I did a little checking. Amnesty states in its report on attending lawsuits against human rights defenders that "no information has been shared with human rights activists or their lawyers in any of the trials attended." I am not going to table a motion on this, but ask the Minister to take that into account and, if that information is correct, to work with it in the EU to ensure that it does so in the future. The main theme of this debate was, of course, the fight against ISIS and the wider instability that we see around Europe, with all the consequences. I think we talked about that very well. I believe that we should fully support the Viennese process, despite the fact that there are players such as Russia, that one moment they say they are actively contributing to it and that the next minute they seem to distance themselves from certain core principles as discussed in Vienna. Then, of course, I'm talking about Assad's position. I very much welcome the Minister's commitment to further support the Kurds in northern Iraq. I was in that area myself a few weeks ago. He has done so earlier with a commitment on mine clearance, but I understand that he now wants to look at other ways of supporting the Kurds too. I think they need all our support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u281	There are many parties who have advocated support for Kurds and for peshmergas in the past year, in whatever form. That is why I would like to know from Mr Servaes what kind of support it can be about as far as he is concerned. Is that also lethargy aid, so just guns? Is that all it takes to beat ISIS?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u282	My party has always been open about that. By "open," I mean she's been in different ways. That's absolutely possible. We have also always supported the transport of weapons, as previously made possible by the Dutch Government. I also know the limitations that the Netherlands has, both in terms of the number and type of weapons that can be used by the Kurds. But if that is possible, my party will absolutely support it. That's always been the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u283	I'm just really happy about that, because I had a slightly different perception. The only thing that's missing is that our warehouses aren't full of weapons left at the moment. But we're probably gonna find a financial solution to that, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u284	I have the impression that Mr Ten Broeke has suddenly widened the scope of his question very much in the last few seconds. He himself mentions the limitations that exist. I've understood that from the government before. If there were a false perception that the Labour Party would not think that we should help the Kurds in all ways, including with arms, in northern Iraq, then I would like to make that quite explicit. Nothing could be further from the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u285	I have a question for Mr Servaes on a joint motion by Mr Ten Broeke and Mr Servaes. I was a little late to put that question to Mr Ten Broeke. Maybe I wasn't alert enough for a while. It could be. There is now a motion, in addition to an amendment that has already been tabled, on the strengthening of the finances for the reception of refugees in the region. I have indicated earlier that I have some doubts about the coverage. Now we are going to vote on the amendments later, but we will be voting on the motions next Tuesday. We will have to come back to the budget for external trade and development cooperation, because that is where the cover is. This means that we should vote on this motion rather than have been able to clarify coverage. My request to Mr Servaes and Mr Ten Broeke is whether they are prepared to hold the motion until after the examination of the budget for external trade and development cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u286	I now see Mr Ten Broeke coming to the microphone himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u287	I give the floor to Mr Ten Broeke on this point. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u288	I can give my word to Mr Grashoff, because we normally hear that from the Minister, and when I have heard his answer, I will also answer his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u289	Mr Grashoff has not yet received an answer to his question as to whether the motion will be held until after the BuHOs budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u290	Mr President, I would just like to maintain the forms of government and parliament and the separation between them, with your permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u291	I do not think it is the government's exclusive right to request that a vote be postponed. Members of parliament may, too. You are free to wait for the Minister's answer, but Mr Grashoff was entitled to ask that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u292	I didn't dispute his right either. I have indicated that I am also waiting for the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u293	Then it is clear that that answer will come later. Mr Servaes, you continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u294	Maybe just for the record. In the Foreign Affairs budget, we have sought not only to look at the foreign affairs budget articles themselves, but to look at foreign policy in the broadest sense here. That is why we have tabled it here. I can imagine that the Minister also thinks it wise to have another look at it with his colleague. We'll see about that. I come back to the proposals we made earlier on strengthening the existing Matra programme. We want to see whether this can be further strengthened in the future, under whatever name, let me add. We ourselves referred to it as a'regional partnership fund'. Matra was founded shortly after the fall of the Wall. We are now at another stage, where it is not so much about the new Member States, but about Europe, where there is sometimes transition but sometimes too little. The word 'partnership' has not been chosen entirely by chance. The Minister himself spoke about this on occasion a week or two ago. He said that it is not so much a one-way street but a one-way street. He was inspired by a statement by the minister himself and therefore he is also in the motion, which is the result of a good coalition council, with results in this case. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Europe is facing a "ring of instability" to both the EU's south and east flank, as well as unprecedented migratory flows that have been triggered by this;]] [[Whereas this situation calls for a more active foreign policy in which all the instruments of that policy must be used in a coherent manner;]] [[Whereas, in addition to combating existing crises, it is necessary to avoid further destabilising countries and, in particular, to strengthen the democratic rule of law, civil society and well-functioning institutions;]] [[noting that the Netherlands has gained considerable experience with the Matra programme in strengthening social transitions in close regions, that evaluations of this programme are positive, but also have improvements;]] [[Calls on the Government, building on these experiences, to develop a new Dutch Regional Partnership Fund, which will focus on the social resilience and stability in the ring around Europe with additional urgency and resources (up to EUR 40 million in 2018);]] [[calls on the Government to send a proposal to this effect to the Chamber by spring 2016 at the latest so that it can be discussed before the summer recess and included in the next budgetary cycle,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Servaes and Mr Ten Broeke. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-V-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u295	There's only one motion left for me. This is about the infamous Nord Stream II pipeline. The Minister responded to this in his written reply. We have little to say about the destabilising role that Russia is still playing in the world. This is one of those tests for me to see if you can move on, how you handle it and how critical you have to stay. The Slovak Prime Minister calls the Nord Stream II pipeline literally treason. The betrayal to which I referred in the first term and which is taking place in a number of Eastern European countries has now been extended to the Baltic States, which have now formally requested that the Nord Stream II pipeline be stopped and discussed at European level. I have the next motion on this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the EU has decided to reduce dependence on Russian fossil fuels, including in the wake of the Ukraine crisis and within the framework of the Energy Union;]] [[whereas the Russian State-owned company Gazprom plans to double the gas supply of Russia via Germany with Nord Stream 2;]] [[Considering that the European Commission has expressed public concern about this issue, calls into question its usefulness, necessity and legal feasibility and notes that it puts pressure on the principles of the Energy Union;]] [[having noted that a number of EU Member States strongly oppose Nord Stream 2 and expressed their wish to address this issue at European level;]] [[calls on the Government to enter into talks with these Member States and to inform the European Commission about their objections to Nord Stream 2 and the Court of Justice about the outcome thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Servaes and Mr Jan Vos. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-V-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u296	We are talking about a point that we have only thought about very marginally. Gas is not currently covered by European sanctions at all. Then what is the motivation to add it now? Deepwater oil and arctic oil are subject to sanctions, but gas is not my knowledge. Insofar as there is a dispute between Russia and Ukraine on gas handling, the European Commission has already raised itself as a mediator. It is a question of whether this motion will not disturb that greatly, but no doubt Mr Servaes has been involved in his motion for a resolution for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u297	Thank you for this question. It is good to clarify this point. The question of whether certain initiatives fall within the sanction regime or not is one. The cabinet has replied very clearly that the licence applications and the like will simply screen properly within that framework. That is not my point, because we have also drawn geopolitical consequences. Furthermore, we are pursuing an energy union and we want to reduce dependence on Russian gas. The importance of this is also underlined by the cabinet on several occasions. So it is more a test on the policy points that I advocate than a way to start on those sanctions. The relationship between this pipeline and the question of what it means for our energy dependence as a whole, and more specifically how it relates to an energy union, is precisely what Commissioner Šefcovic is questioning. It is therefore separate from the sanctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u298	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions that have been asked and, in particular, for replying in writing, because it showed that I must take back something I said yesterday. Yesterday, I told you that this vile retreat from our embassy from Jerusalem to Tel Aviv took place in 1983, but the letter showed that it was 1980. I have just checked this and indeed the letter from Prime Minister Van Agt informing the Chamber about the relocation of the embassy was from August 1980. The letter again showed, and that was not clear from the written reply, that the government felt very much encouraged and forced to do so, and that it did so in fact against its will. That's why I still think it's a miserable retreat. My group agrees with that, and that is why I am tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to recognise Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and to move the Dutch embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Roon and Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-V-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u299	I will move on to another issue, namely the recent Palestinian wave of violence in which all kinds of Israeli citizens are attacked on the streets by Palestinians. These people are stabbed with knives and often stabbed to death. That's been going on for several weeks, if not months. Also yesterday in Tel Aviv, two more people were randomly stabbed to death on the street. One would expect a leader of such a people as the Palestinians to call on his people not to do so, because of course it is extremely criminal and does not contribute anything good to anything. That is not what Mr Abbas is doing. He has been encouraged by all kinds of other political leaders from all over the world. None of that has helped, not even after Mr Rutte said it to him again. He just doesn't. Then I think it's time to pull out the stick behind the door, and I'm doing it in the form of a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the violence committed by Palestinians in Israel, Judea and Samaria has been seriously caused in recent months by many victims;]] [[noting that the Palestinian leader Abbas did not call on his people to stop violence against Israeli citizens, but that violence seems to publicly support it;]] [[calls on the Government to stop the Dutch contributions to Palestinian state-building immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-V-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u300	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u301	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply and also for his written answers. I would like to congratulate Mr Wassenberg on his beautiful maiden speech. The debate is, of course, I think that no one is surprised by the struggle against the Islamic State. That's right. From Baghdad to Beirut and from the Sinai to Paris, we have been shocked by this terrorist group over and over again. I therefore have a number of motions. I would like to start with a point where I believe that the fight against ISIS can be intensified, and that is its funding. I think it is essential that we also financially wipe out that terrorist group in order to ensure that it can no longer finance its acts of terror and thus at least loses its recruitment power. That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is necessary to financially drain ISIS;]] [[noting that ISIS continues to receive money from individuals from Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States;]] [[having noted that United Nations Security Council Resolution 2199 calls on United Nations Member States to do everything possible to stop the financing of ISIS;]] [[calls on the Government, at European level, to freeze the assets of ISIS private financiers and to impose travel bans on them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Van Bommel. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-V-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u302	We have also talked very extensively about Saudi Arabia, and not just about the situation in Saudi Arabia itself. The Minister has said that I am pleased that he has brought the situation of blogger Badawi to the attention and that he has pleaded for his release. That's very, very important. I am also pleased to see that the concerns about this live very widely in the Chamber. We have also talked about what Saudi Arabia is doing outside its own borders, and that is perhaps even more worrying than what it is doing within its own borders, although that is not really possible. Look at the role the country plays in Yemen. The Minister himself said in an earlier debate that Saudi Arabia is running out of international standards. That is very, very worrying. It concerns the use of cluster munitions, war crimes and the fight against humanitarian aid. It's actually unacceptable. I think that whatever you do, however difficult the situation may be, and however complicated our relationship with Saudi Arabia may be, it must have consequences at European level. I believe that we should suspend the supply of arms from the European Union until Saudi Arabia wants to cooperate in a truly independent investigation into what has happened in Yemen. That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Saudi Arabia is engaged in cluster munitions and war crimes in Yemen;]] [[Notes that Saudi Arabia refuses to cooperate in an international, independent investigation of human rights violations in Yemen;]] [[calls on the Government, within the EU, to call for the suspension of arms supplies until Saudi Arabia is prepared to cooperate in an independent investigation into human rights violations in Yemen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Knops, Mr Voordewind, Mr Van Bommel and Mr Grashoff.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-V-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u303	I also co-signed motions. I have co-signed a motion by Mr Van Bommel on correct labelling. Not only for Israel, but also for other occupied territories. I would also have liked to have co-signed Mr Ten Broeke's motion, but unfortunately that was not possible. I understand that Mr Grashoff has one more. I think we'll finally get one motion on this. I also signed Mr Knops' motion on pressure on Turkey. I am going to table a motion myself on a subject that I touched on in the first term, but on which the Minister responded negatively in his written reply, namely on Dutch education abroad. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas 15,000 children worldwide attend Dutch education abroad;]] [[whereas the subsidy for the Dutch Education Foundation in Abroad ends after 2016, which means that one third of Dutch schools have to close abroad;]] [[invites the government, by mid-January, to take stock of how the government will finance Dutch schools abroad in 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van Bommel and Mr Knops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-V-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u304	Mr. Chairman. There is agreement in the Chamber on the aim of combating ISIS. However, when we then talk about the precise interpretation, you will see that the opinions in the Chamber differ again. That is a pity, but of course it is also inherent in the fact that we are working here in a democracy. I support the Minister's line; until there really is a final goal for Syria, we should not bomb. I await the reactions, and I also await what is happening in the Vienna trial. It is really necessary for a plan to be drawn up. We shouldn't be bombing away in the wild right now. That wouldn't add anything. I would also like to thank the Minister for his willingness to at least look at the situation of the Kurds. Mr Servaes and I were in Iraq a few weeks ago. There we have seen that the Kurds really need more help than they are getting now. I await the cabinet's plans in that respect. The Minister also promised to ask the Americans what support America is giving to the Kurds in Syria. Is it possible for the Minister to inform the Chamber of the outcome of that consultation? If necessary, that can be done confidentially. I'll come to the labeling. I would have liked to have tabled a motion on this, but I see that there are enough motions and I suspect that the motion I wanted to table on this issue will not make it. Indeed, the uneven introduction of labelling makes the agenda clear. That introduction discriminates against Israel. In order to avoid this, I would ask the Minister to call for the equal introduction of labelling, both for Israel and for the other regions. Does he see any possibilities for that? Finally, this EU directive has been in the refrigerator for years. I do not think it would be any harm to have him in it for a few more years. We also see this one-sidedness in the European Union in its action against the PLO. I am referring to this perverse financial incentive by paying the Palestinian terrorists by the PLO. I've been looking into this again. They get top salaries up to €2,500 from the Palestinian Authority, while the Netherlands pays 70 million over several years. The Netherlands therefore indirectly finances these Palestinian terrorists. That's so sad. I will not table a motion on this. I shall not table any motion for a resolution in this debate. However, I have tabled amendments. I hope that the House will support the amendment on the relatively small amount of €800,000 on that 70 million. Earlier, Mr Van der Staaij and I said in a motion: let us take another time in which we increase the pressure on the Palestinian Authority to stop those payments. So far, however, they have not stopped. That motion also stated that at some point you must take a measure if the payments do not stop. That is what we have done with this amendment. So I really hope that there will be broad support in the Chamber for stopping this kind of perverse payments. Finally, I would like to say that I have tabled two other amendments on behalf of the Christian Union. One is about promoting religious freedom and one is about reconciliation projects. The last amendment received the support of the Chamber earlier. I hope that this amendment will enable me to continue this type of project. I await the Minister's response to these amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u305	Mr. Chairman. It is good that the Minister stresses the importance of the Vienna process around the situation in Syria, attaches a high priority to it and wants to make much of it dependant on it. I asked about the active attitude of the cabinet on the association agreement. It wouldn't be a campaign with a lot of money. Then what is it? Will the Minister say anything about this in the second term? We have noted that in the written reply the Minister undertook to participate in the UN working group on nuclear disarmament on the basis of the ruling. That's fine. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, on the basis of EU consumer law, the European Commission has decided that products from the territories occupied by Israel should be labelled as such;]] [[noting that the EU has committed itself to non-recognition of areas occupied in violation of international law;]] [[noting that Member States should monitor the enforcement and sanctioning of these rules;]] [[calls on the Government to urge the European Commission to clarify the origin of products from all territories in breach of international law;]] [[calls on the Government to take decisive action to ensure enforcement and sanctioning,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the development of fully autonomous robotic weapons makes it possible to select, attack, injure or kill human targets without human intervention;]] [[Whereas such a development threatens the right to life and other human rights;]] [[calls on the Government, in accordance with the Special Rapporteur's call for out-of-court, trial and arbitrary executions of the UN, to establish a moratorium on the development, transfer, commissioning and deployment of fully autonomous robotic weapons,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas this cabinet does not have a geopolitical energy supply strategy;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable to be dependent on authoritarian regimes for the supply of energy;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a geopolitical energy strategy as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Servaes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-V-33]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-V-34]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-V-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u306	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mr Sjoerdsma for his congratulations. Thank you to the Minister for the answers. The Animal Party is partly in agreement with the Minister's answers and principles. He states that there must also be investment in society; not we-side thinking, but connectedness. We shouldn't let them break us up. Those are words to my heart. So much for the compliments. I would also like to say a word about ecocide. This also serves Mr Ten Broeke at his beck and call. The Minister says that the addition of ecocide to the crimes under the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court is not at issue at present. It's easy to solve, and I'd be happy to. It is at issue when one of the countries that have joined the Criminal Court raises it. That is why I would like to raise the following point. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the International Criminal Court in The Hague has the power to bring genocide, aggression, torture and crimes against humanity to justice internationally;]] [[Whereas serious damage to nature and the environment threatens the quality of life of the earth and causes many casualties;]] [[Whereas serious damage to the environment is currently punishable only in the event of an international armed conflict (Article 8.2.b (iv) of the Rome Statute);]] [[noting that adding ecocide to the powers of the International Criminal Court could close this omission in international law;]] [[noting that there is already a detailed proposal to identify large-scale damage to ecosystems as an international crime against peace;]] [[calls on the Government to add ecocide to the Rome Statute for the International Criminal Court,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-V-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u307	Mr. Chairman. This morning, but also yesterday and tonight, we had an interesting debate on how to contain terrorism and terrorism from Daesh in the most effective way possible. Throwing bombs alone won't make it. You also need to address Daesh's financial resources. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Daesh is estimated to earn $750 million each year by selling oil;]] [[noting that Daesh is able to finance its global terrorist acts;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how OECD oil companies can be given greater responsibility to ensure that the raw materials they purchase do not come from areas controlled by Daesh,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-V-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u308	I'm filing a second motion. That might be a repeat of moves. I tried it six months ago, but it has become more topical after President Hollande of France has expressed an extensive opinion on it. As I said in my contribution, it is a question of calling "IS," "ISS" or "ISIL" from now on "Daesh," because that does not involve connotation with Islam, to which many people in the Netherlands belong. The most important argument is that it is best to bully them, because in those areas you get caning when you call the organisation "Daesh." It's an effective way to bully them with that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the so-called "Islamic State" is incompatible with Islam and is a very inappropriate and misplaced name for the counterproductive terrorist guerrilla in the Middle East;]] [[Considering that leaders such as Obama, Hollande and Cameron now call this terrorist organisation "Daesh," an Arab abbreviation;]] [[Considering that this will have a positive impact on the image of Muslims who have nothing to do with this terrorist organisation and want to be involved;]] [[calls on the Government to use the term "Daesh" instead of terms such as "Islamic State," "IS," "IS" or "ISIS" or "ISIL,"]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-V-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u309	I have an informative question for Mr Kuzu. Can he tell me what the abbreviation "Daesh" stands for?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u310	That abbreviation stands for exactly the same as the abbreviation "ISIS" in Arabic. In that sense it is no different, but it brings with it a completely different connotation. When you pronounce it that way, it also brings with it a disposable gesture. The organization feels bullied by that. Let's do that here, for God's sake.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u311	I also have an informative question. Fortunately, I already knew that from the previous question. I can remember that a few months ago we also adopted a motion on this subject. I read in the written reply that the government is doing the same internationally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u312	I am concerned not only with the use at international level, but also with the use at national level. In the statements we have made over the last few months, we also referred to the organisation as "ISIS." I call for the organisation to be called "Daesh," like France and the United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u313	It raises many factual questions. I give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u314	I'm sorry, but I'm gonna go through with this. Is the only difference from the previous motion that Mr Kuzu does not think this time that the government should force the media to do something?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u315	That's another misconception. We discussed this in detail last time. A request from the government to the media is perhaps an obligation in Mr Sjoerdsma's view, but in my view it is still a request. If British Prime Minister Cameron is able to ask the BBC in a letter to do so, then I see no objection to asking the Minister to do the same to the media in the Netherlands. That's what I'm doing here. Mr Sjoerdsma wants to frame it as an obligation, but I put it as a request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u316	If I understand correctly, therefore, the motion remains that you think the government should always say "Daesh."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u317	Yes, in that sense. That's correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u318	Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister Rutte said we're at war with ISIS. It is therefore impossible for my group that you should not address ISIS in Syria. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands is at war with IS;]] [[calls on the Government to extend military engagement against ISIS to Syria as soon as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to release means to step up military engagement against ISIS,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-V-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u319	My group is annoyed by Angela Merkel's open border policy. In the first place, I have said something about this to Mr Ten Broeke. A lot of Dutch people are also annoyed by it. If Merkel opens the door to asylum and immigration, it will have consequences for the Netherlands. She just does that unbridled. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands holds the Presidency of the European Union in the first half of 2016;]] [[calls on the government, in this role as chairman, to firmly distance itself from the open border policy of the German Chancellor Merkel,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-V-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u320	We shall continue with the examination of the Foreign Affairs budget. The next item is the second-term reply by the Minister. A number of questions have been asked and a number of motions and amendments have been tabled. I give the floor to the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u321	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for their second term and for the interesting debate we have held today. A week ago, perhaps wrongly, we had not anticipated that this debate would be mainly about nihilism, terrorism, the octopus of ISIS and how to fight it best, about cold blood and about effectiveness. I think we have had this debate in a good way, and I thank the Chamber for that. Despite the differences of opinion about the policies and the urgency of one or the other means, we agree that the way of life in Europe and the Netherlands may be affected by a great evil and that we must fight it together. Those aren't just sweet words for the late evening. We then discussed how we are going to do that. Then you always come up with policies, legal measures, military measures, with money and with motions. That makes sense in such a situation. Let us not forget why we are doing this and why it is so important that foreign policy is at the heart of our society. It hasn't always been that way. We have talked for years about the importance of internal and external policies and the coherence between them. For many that remained an abstract discussion, let us be honest. It sounds good with some experts. Now we are in the midst of society, where our citizens are asking us to strengthen security, and we cannot guarantee it, but we can strengthen it, and we can do so in a way that allows us to learn lessons from the past. I very much appreciated that we were able to do so this afternoon and this evening. In the light of this, a large number of motions have been tabled which apply to different elements of policy. I shall now proceed to the debate on the motions and amendments. I'll start with the motion in part No. 17, by Mr Van Bommel and Mr Sjoerdsma in response to the message from Stop Arms Trade that weapons supplied by the Netherlands would have been used in Yemen. The motion calls for an independent investigation. I have seen in the report that there is talk about the probable use of weapons that may have been supplied by the Netherlands in the past. It is simply not feasible to investigate exports to other countries on deliveries from often ten to fifteen years ago. Countries from the KSA coalition don't make it easy to inspect their army. It often concerns parts, so that makes research intrinsically difficult. I think it is much more important that our arms exports policy is very restrictive. I refer, among other things, to rejected licences for parts of fighter planes and parts of drones for countries in that coalition. The crux of the matter is that the Netherlands is doing this restrictively. In that light, I advise against the motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 18 by Mr Van Bommel and Mr Sjoerdsma on labelling. I am now, of course, faced with a huge dilemma, because no less than three motions have been tabled on this important subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u322	Perhaps you could treat them together. It concerns motions for resolutions on documents Nos. 18, 22 and 33.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u323	I'll get it out right away. I could imagine with some respect for the Chamber that you might want to get the best motion out of that yourself. They're all about the same thing. I understand the background to the motions. When it comes to labelling, we should actually do so with the motto 'equal monks, equal hoods'. Why, therefore, would the government not want to engage in other areas and other countries where this applies? I have, of course, looked at the various motions. What is asked should not be taken lightly. As a result of the occupied territories, a fairly long-term policy has been pursued. You were in favour of it or not. At least it takes time and it is not easy to reach consensus on it. I am not saying that to discourage, because the government is willing to do so, but I would like to have said that in advance. Consumer protection has always been the point of view, let us be clear. For a long time, there has been a broad shared desire on the part of the business community for greater clarity on products from the territories occupied by Israel. I would point out that consumers and businesses have not asked the government about other areas, so that question as such has not come out of society, but I will take this request of the representatives of the people seriously. I would point out that this was a specific demand from consumers and businesses in this particular conflict. The cabinet's position, therefore, was also, as stated in today's Parliamentary Letter, that the Netherlands attaches great importance to clarity about the origin of products and the need for a European Union-wide approach. It was also about a level playing field. That's why all this is happening. If politics pursues the same policy in other areas, I believe that industry will, of course, ask for it. I'll point out that difference. One is about a policy line because consumers and businesses want a level playing field and information, the other is about all areas of conflict or areas that are occupied or illegally annexed. That's a very wide choice. I would point out that it is rather complicated when it comes to all areas of conflict. Israel is a conflict zone, Egypt is a conflict zone and I can give you a lot of examples. It seems to me that it is a very big task for a small country such as the Netherlands to put in place a policy for all these areas of conflict. In all of these 27 other countries, it will take a great deal of effort to achieve this, but I will certainly do so if the Chamber calls on me to do so. It may be possible to narrow that down, set some priorities or think about what makes sense, so that we also have a bit of a chance of success.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u324	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u325	Mr Van Bommel, I would suggest that we ask the Minister to share with you the concerns he has about these three motions. Then I will then give the various spokesmen who have tabled motions the opportunity to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u326	The Van Bommel/Sjoerdsma motion in part No. 18 seems too wide to me. I would point out that there is no support within the European Union for labelling products from Western Sahara. We can try, but that's what I'm pointing out. In the reply to parliamentary questions, the following was asked in 2013: "The cabinet attaches importance to clarity about the origin or origin. origin of products'. We have therefore pointed out the need to clarify the origin and origin of Western Sahara products so that consumers can be properly informed. The Commission has not yet taken any initiatives in this respect." It is not the wish of myself or of the government to do so, on the basis of initiatives taken by the Chamber, but I urge some realism in this legitimate and understandable wish. I would point out that it is in the motion in part No. 18 is very broad motivated. The Ten Broeke motion in part No. 22 is about the same problem. I would like to make the same comments in general, but it is clear that the wording of this motion is somewhat clearer: 'whereas European consumers are not only entitled to transparency about the origin of products from the areas for which new guidelines have now been announced, but are, above all, entitled to a consistent labelling policy'. There's another element of inventory in that. That's also good, because it's hard to establish that all the way here. The operative part of this motion is: 'calls on the Government not only to take stock of whether it is European support for it but to acquire it actively and to advocate in the Foreign Affairs Council that the European Commission should also draw up guidelines for all products from all areas', et cetera. I would point out that I consider the feasibility of this to be very limited, but I am, of course, prepared to respect the wishes of the Chamber. I am now moving into an extremely dangerous area, namely to make a choice between motions of the same type in the Chamber. I would say that it has been formulated a little more clearly, in the sense that there is still a need for further clarification. The Grashoff/Servaes motion in part No. 33 reads as follows: "Considering the need for Member States to ensure the enforcement and sanctioning of these rules, calls on the Government to urge the European Commission to seek clarification from consumers and businesses as to the origin of products from all territories in breach of international law." That is a further reduction in the area, so there is already a choice: it is only illegal occupied areas. Of course, there is a huge political debate on this in itself. In fact, this debate is much less valid for Israel and the Palestinian territories. However, I would say that this would be the most similar to the problem, whereas we do not want Israel and the Palestinian territories to be the only ones to be removed. That is why I would like to say that the government leaves this motion to the Chamber. Perhaps it would be wise to get a motion out of it; otherwise it would be difficult for the government to carry out all three motions at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u327	Before we move on to the next motions, I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Bommel, who had another question on the motion for a resolution on item No. 18. I believe that his question concerns your comment on all areas of conflict.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u328	It is actually more of a comment. The authors have also come to the conclusion that this motion was rather broad-based. In the suspension of a few minutes I discussed with a number of people whether it might not be wise to see if we could put these motions together, because they all want the same thing in spirit. We can also take out the broad wording "conflict areas" to ensure that we can serve a common goal and achieve a majority for it. That's my commitment. I just wanted to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u329	May I conclude from this that the motions on the documents Nos. 18, 22 and 33 are still being amended? That would allow colleagues to prepare themselves for this. In any event, the Minister has indicated that, because of the substance of the motions, he will leave the opinion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u330	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u331	For my part, I would like to confirm this explicitly, also because Mr Grashoff had asked for it. As a result of the Minister's answer, I still have a question. In the last motion of this three-pact that we are trying to combine, there is also something about a vigorous sanction, which must be taken up immediately. The Minister did not respond to that element. I think that makes that motion different again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u332	I think that the question put by Mr Grashoff concerned the motion on item No. 19, which concerns the 2017 budget and should therefore be dealt with after the BuHa-OS budget. But I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u333	Yes, there is a directive and it is being implemented by the Netherlands. That was already on the website of the Ministry of Economic Affairs this morning, in order to ensure clarity for consumers and businesses about the labelling and the way in which it was decided in Europe. At present, therefore, that directive has already been implemented by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I think it is important to clarify immediately the interpretation given by the European Commission. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 19, which deals with voluntary contributions to the United Nations. I would also like to come back to what I said earlier, namely that it is very important that United Nations organisations should always be looked at carefully, and that the strengths and weaknesses of the various UN organisations should always be taken into account. I think it is quite understandable that, in the light of current events, we are also looking at the tightening up and deepening of the work of certain organisations versus that of others. In a more general sense, however, I would point out that it is important to also look at the causes of migration flows, for example. I have already mentioned this in my comment to the Animal Party. This means that we should not take decisions in the short term. I would like to add that I am very positive about the fact that the Labour Party and the VVD have both looked at how this can be implemented directly in terms of migration. I would therefore like to take a positive view of this motion. I think it is essential to say that this is directly the area under the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. She has responded favourably to this in my conversation with her about this. We leave the judgment to the Chamber. As the motion for a resolution is for 2017, my colleague will give her opinion on it next week, based on a positive attitude similar to mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u334	The vote on the motions will take place on Tuesday. Then the question to Mr Ten Broeke is whether he is prepared to postpone the vote on this motion until after the budget debate at BuHa-OS.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u335	I understand that this will be done on the same positive basis, and that is why I am prepared to do so. That is what I am saying to Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u336	At the request of Mr Ten Broeke, I propose his motion (34300-V, No. 19). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u337	For the sake of time, may I say the same about the motion in part No. 20? I have already dealt with this in the written reply. He went to the room today. This, too, is initially a subject for my colleague Ploumen. There is also a positive attitude of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u338	Same sheet, same suit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u339	At the request of Mr Ten Broeke, I propose his motion (34300-V, No. 20). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u340	Then I come to the important Ten Broeke/Servaes motion in part No. 21, on missions and external borders. We've had a discussion about it before. How can you ensure that the migration component is included, or, even stronger, put at the centre of the various international missions? We talked about it at the time with regard to the mission in Mali. We also exchanged arguments on how to strengthen things. Simply strengthening stability helps to analyse the risks of migration. Nevertheless, I do think it is important to use you to get something done in the mandates. Partly by a Dutch proposal, the modified mandate for MINUSMA mentions the risks of trafficking in human beings. This is a modest step, because this does not yet provide for the executive tasks in the field of human trafficking or illegal migration. That was not supported by the permanent members of the Security Council. Monitoring the EU's borders, an essential point, is a priority of this cabinet. Trafficking in human beings is a cross-border problem and requires a multidisciplinary approach at national and international level. Strengthening the surveillance of the European external borders is a top priority. The cabinet is also working on this on a daily basis. The role of Frontex needs to be strengthened. The Commission will put forward proposals for this in December. The Netherlands will play a proactive role in this. That is why I consider this motion to be positive and to support policy. The motion in part No. I've already had 22. Then I come to the Knops motion in part No. 23, which calls for increased pressure on Turkey on a number of issues. For a number of reasons, I advise against that motion. The motion talks about Turkey's role in the region in very coarse brushstrokes. In today's debate, we have indicated that it is a little more complicated. I stressed that Turkey is an important partner in the fight against ISIS and in the migration issue. Of course we remain critical. I am also looking at the European Commission's progress report. It is a question of addressing and dialogue on concerns. It is also a question of working together in pursuit of our common goals. That is why I do not agree with the call in this motion to increase the pressure. Pressure is being exerted. I don't see why it should be staged. In addition, with the agreement of the Chamber, a dialogue is being held with Turkey on the issue of migrants. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u341	This week it was announced that the US has made new agreements with Turkey on the protection of some of the borders. Is that another reason to see this in another context? I am, however, inclined to take a positive view of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u342	Because of the policy of the Netherlands, but just as well as that of the United States, and the pressure exerted, the fight against ISIS, which we consider so important, has intensified. We've discussed this before in the Chamber. That pressure exists. That's what we're gonna keep doing. Therefore, I do not think that some of the considerations are necessary. This also applies to part of the operative part. We're working on that pressure. We do not need to increase it further in the light of the current situation, which has been discussed here earlier. Then I come to the Knops motion in part No. 24, on limiting the foreign financing of salafism in the Netherlands. Salafism is a religious movement and as such is not punishable. We cannot therefore, by definition, restrict foreign financing. We'll try to keep an eye on foreign funding flows. For the record: in the cabinet's reaction to salafism, the cabinet already states that salafism is only a problem if it leads to extremist behavior. So that must also be addressed. However, we are fighting against the funding of ISIS. The Netherlands takes it hard. In this context, I would like to return to previous questions about what the Netherlands is doing precisely in the fight against this funding. Currently there are 40 people and 3 organisations on the national terrorism list. 26 of these persons are on the list for involvement with ISIS and Jabhat al-Nusra. That is a doubling compared to a year ago. Of the persons and organisations on the list, the funds are frozen and it is punishable by financial support. In addition, there is an EU terrorist list. There are hundreds of names, including two Dutch organisations, including the Hofstadgroep. Finally, there is a UN list, containing thousands of people and organisations, but not Dutch. There is no doubt that the Netherlands and its allies in all these organisations are doing everything in their power to reduce funding. This can only be done internationally and must certainly be done by the countries in the region. Shrinking the funding of ISIS is therefore a priority for the anti-ISIS coalition. Progress has already been made internationally. For example, increased financial supervision has been achieved, better data exchange, closer cooperation with the financial sector and freezing measures have been applied, including by myself. However, that is not enough. That is why, following the attacks in Beirut, Sharm el-Sheikh, Yola in Nigeria, Ankara and Paris, and following consultations with Turkey, Morocco and France, I initiated an emergency meeting as co-chair of the Global Counter Terrorism Forum, where there is an anti-ISIS financing element along with the anti-ISIS coalition. It is important to move forward with this, also in view of the appeals of the Chamber. The request for an emergency meeting has therefore been made by the Dutch Government and I hope that this meeting can take place as soon as possible, because of the concerns that exist. I'm returning to the motion in part No. 24. This motion is about Salafism as a religious movement in a very general sense. This motion calls on the government to restrict foreign financing of Salafism in the Netherlands. So I'm not suggesting this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u343	The minister needed so many words, I really thought he was going to explain that he saw my motion as a support for his policy and that he wanted to show what was already happening. I'm having trouble with this anyway. The Minister often says in debates that we should not be naive. I do not think that we should be naive, especially when it comes to salafism. The AIVD itself has indicated that this is a problem. If the Minister needs so many words to explain that he is already doing a lot, but that he does not agree with this, I am surprised. In the end, it is the Chamber that is voting on this, so that is not the point, but I would like the Minister to see my motion as a support to do more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u344	For the sake of clarity, this was an answer to a question and a response to the motion. One more question was asked to me by several spokesmen, including Mr Knops. They said, "Take on ISIS and make sure that funding is cut off." I have just indicated that there is a long list of things we are doing and that I am calling an emergency meeting on this subject to make sure that we are doing even better. Salafism is really another problem. In the letter sent by the cabinet, it can be read that the cabinet is indeed very critical of elements of Salafism; let there be no misunderstanding about that. There is no naivety there either. In the view of the Dutch cabinet, however, putting a movement as a whole in the corner without it being directly linked to what Mr Knops says. That is also described quite clearly in the letter. Salafism is a very broad current, which exists in large areas of the Middle East, not only in Saudi Arabia, but also in other countries; also in the Netherlands. Research has been done, precisely because of the critical attitude of the cabinet. It is already complicated to take out a certain religious group, but it would be even more complicated to say that there is a direct correlation with the problem we are talking about here. The letter describes exactly where this correlation is and is not. According to the cabinet, the statement that a whole religious group should never receive money again does not fit in with the balance between the rule of law and freedom of religion and the reduction of risk. Then I come to the motion on part No. 25, in which the government is asked, following Germany's example, to set up a structural humanitarian aid and development programme for Aramean displaced persons and refugees from Syria and Iraq. Unfortunately, I must also reject this motion, not because I do not think the subject is important, but because humanitarian aid is always provided on the basis of a humanitarian imperative. This means that the most vulnerable are the first to receive humanitarian aid. Humanitarian aid is also provided on the basis of humanitarian principles such as neutrality and impartiality. This means that no further distinction is made on the basis of faith or any other basis between groups of people receiving aid. Those are the principles that we support, so unfortunately I have to take the motion in part. 25 dissuade. The motion in part No. 26 is about the Matra program. I have already said something about this in the first term. In that I indicated that I would consider the motion to support my policy and take the suggestions of the Chamber into account in the formulation of the new Matra policy framework. So the Chamber can check us for that as well. I will send this policy framework and the evaluation of Matra Eastern Partnership and pre-accession to the Chamber in 2015. I would, however, like to say once again that I am holding my own on the further increase in the Matra budget after 2016. There is no room on my budget for that. At the same time, the renewed Matra approach should be adopted and the absorption capacity in the region should be sufficient. The motion in part No. 27 calls on the Government to engage in talks with the European Commission and relevant critical Member States on their objections to Nord Stream II and to inform the Court of Justice accordingly. I want to see this motion as a policy support. I have already explained how we look at this. I think it is an important subject in itself. The Netherlands itself is not dependent on Russian gas. Nord Stream II does not increase the dependence on Russian gas. The European Commission has indicated that it will review this project in line with European laws, regulations and sanctions policy. The cabinet does the same for licence applications. Of course, the Netherlands will engage and remain in dialogue with Member States, in particular those directly involved. We will inform the Court of Justice of this in the relevant usual way, for example in the reporting of the forthcoming European Councils. We shall therefore also carry out the motion. The motion in part No. 28 is about moving the embassy from Jerusalem to Tel Aviv. As I said earlier, the government decided in August 1980 to move the Dutch diplomatic representation from Jerusalem to Tel Aviv. In doing so, the government followed UN Security Council Resolution 478 which found that Israel's annexation of the occupied eastern part of Jerusalem was contrary to international law and in which Member States maintained that diplomatic representation in Jerusalem were called upon to withdraw it from Jerusalem. The reasons for this relocation have not changed. Return will only be possible for the Netherlands after there is a comprehensive peace agreement with a solution for Jerusalem, including clarity on where the borders run. I therefore advise against the motion. In the motion in part No. 29 by Mr De Roon, the government is invited to stop supporting the Palestinian Authority in the Netherlands. I believe that the creation of a two-state solution is still the only way to resolve the Palestinian-Israeli conflict. This state-building is an indispensable part of this. The Netherlands is also praised by all parties for this. That is what is happening both on the Israeli side and on the Palestinian side. So I can't live with this motion and so dissuade her. I come to speak about the motion on item No. 30 by Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Van Bommel. I have already made a number of comments in response to a motion by Mr Knops. I would like to reiterate that we consider this to be very important for the reasons I mentioned. I would also point out what we are doing with regard to the EU terrorist list and the UN list and the need to strengthen it. I'll call a special meeting for that. I therefore see this motion supporting policy. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 31. I've already explained why I'm doing that in the first term. That would mean imposing an arms embargo and excluding a case-by-case approach. There is no support for this. I have also mentioned a number of other elements, which require me to discourage this motion. I do not think it is very diplomatically likely that if you plead for the suspension of arms supplies, Saudi Arabia would still participate in an independent investigation into human rights violations. In view of the pressure I have noticed in the past period, I do not think that will help in any case. I'm coming up on Sjoerdsma c.s. motion. in piece No. 32, which asks to continue the funding of Dutch education abroad. The funds for the Dutch Education Foundation in Abroad are not part of the Foreign Affairs budget. The policy weighting for a subsidy for Dutch language and culture education lies with my colleague from OCW. I therefore refer to the opinion of my colleague from OCW who also advised against a similar motion in the debate that the Chamber held on the OCW budget. I understand that Mr Sjoerdsma would like to try it twice, but I agree with the Minister's assessment of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u345	I have a question about this. The original grants come from the budget of OCW. Today, however, we are dealing not only with the foreign affairs budget but also with the HGIS, foreign policy in the broadest sense. I would ask the Minister to take a closer look at this in 2017. Everything is financed from the HGIS budget. In view of the fact that 15,000 children abroad receive Dutch education and the fact that one third of these schools will disappear in 2017, I would ask him to look again for that money in the broad sense of government policy within the HGIS funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u346	I understand, it is important for children in the diplomatic service and for other people who want to learn Dutch and get to know Dutch culture. I fully understand this, but in the priorities that I now set and which I set as the coordinating minister of the HGIS, I can say that I do not think that is the first priority. We have talked about humanitarian aid, about the stability fund and about the situation in the world at the moment, that is something else I think. Education doesn't go away, it just has to be paid for by the people themselves. I doubt whether we should subsidise this in the light of the urgent situation which Mr Sjoerdsma himself has indicated in the Foreign Affairs budget. I really must stick to the budget on which I am going and not to Mr Bussemaker's budget. The motion in part No. 34 is about an important point. I understand the concerns expressed by Mr Grashoff. This new development requires careful appreciation. The Cabinet therefore asked the International Affairs Advisory Council (AIV) and the Advisory Committee on People's Rights (CAVV) for an opinion on whether the development of autonomous weapons is desirable. This opinion was also published and sent to the Chamber. I don't know if anyone's taken notice of that. We are now working with the Ministry of Defense on a cabinet Juice Appreciation. Given the importance of the subject, which I very much support, the Netherlands is playing an active role in Geneva, and I think that this has been rightly pointed out by the GroenLinks Group, and is putting autonomous weapons on the agenda there, so that there is also a good international debate and discussion about this development. Nevertheless, I advise against this motion. As reported in writing to the Chamber in November 2013, scientific and technological developments in the field of robots can also produce important social and humanitarian results. I have also seen this on some UN missions where we are trying to do this. Other humanitarian organisations are not in favour of a moratorium on the development of robots, such as the International Red Cross, which indicates that the imposition of a moratorium is not feasible and not feasible. However, I share the concerns that exist with the Chamber. Together with Minister Hennis, he will send a cabinet response to the AIV-CAVV report on autonomous weapons systems. They will elaborate on the conclusion of the two Advisory Councils that a moratorium is not currently desirable or feasible. I now come to the motion for a resolution on part No. 35. The Minister for Economic Affairs is working on an energy report with input from other ministries, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and a related wide-ranging social debate in which geopolitical aspects of energy are of course taken into account by the proposers. This will lead to a policy agenda at the end of 2016. I see no reason to develop a geopolitical strategy in addition to that. With sympathy for the subject, I would like to discourage this motion. In the motion in part No. 36 it is noted that there is already a detailed proposal to identify large-scale damage to ecosystems as an international crime against peace. I would like to say to the Animal Party: after this debate we have a debate on the International Criminal Court. We have now been negotiating the element of aggression for 14 years. That will be discussed again in the Chamber tonight. The request in the motion is really not acceptable at the moment. I do not believe that this will happen either, and that is why I think there are better alternatives to moving these matters forward. The Netherlands is looking at other ways to tackle the massive destruction and damage of ecosystems, for example by making international agreements on the sustainable use of the earth. In this way, I believe that we will be able to move forward much faster and much more effectively than if we have to wait another 14, 15 years or perhaps even longer. In view of the urgency of the problem, I am afraid to say, with all due respect, that we are not going to make much progress in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u347	The Minister thus dissuade the motion in part No. 36.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u348	I'm indeed dissuading the motion. Thank you, Madam President. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 37 filed a motion. I would suggest to him, for a number of reasons, that this motion be retained. Firstly, it concerns my colleague Ploumen's area, because she is the first to be responsible for this. I would also point out that most of the oil refined by ISIS is immediately marketed locally. There is no oil company involved, as I said before. Finally, Dutch oil companies and all other international oil multinationals should apply the highest standards of corporate social responsibility, including as regards the origin of their products. So you might be wondering if it was really gonna work. However, the OECD is important and I would therefore ask Mr Kuzu to hold the motion until the debate with the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u349	Mr Kuzu stands up and gestures to me that he is holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u350	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 38 has already been dealt with in a slightly different form. I would advise against this motion. Moreover, I support in itself the desirability of the word 'Daesh'. Internationally, this word is also used by most governments, something our partners in the region confirm. I also use it myself in international forums. At the same time, I really believe that in the national debate everyone should be able to use terms that are recognizable to everyone or to her or to him. We don't use "IS" because of the state connotations. ISIS is now common in the language. I believe that we should not take any further measures. So I understood what Mr Kuzu said. And, once again, in an international context, this is how we are addressing it. I would therefore advise against the motion. In the motion in part No. 39 Mr Bontes called on the government, as soon as possible, to extend military engagement against ISIS to Syria and to release means to increase military engagement against ISIS. We discussed this earlier and then I indicated why, without being fundamentally opposed, I do not think it is appropriate now to lift our caveat for the F-16s. I am sure we will be able to discuss this further. I would like to point out to Mr Bontes that we are also leading the international scene and that we have said here this evening that we are ready to look again at the possibilities of delivering arms or any other commitment to the peshmergas together with Germany. In view of the previous debate, I would advise against the motion. The same applies to the motion in part No. 40. There is no open border policy of Germany. We are also working with Germany to tackle migratory flows. They must be tackled internationally in our view, and that is why we are committed to European policy and do not want to stand up to individual Member States. I would therefore advise against this motion. That brings me to the amendments. The amendment in part No. 12 is about reconciliation projects for Israel and the Palestinian Authority. The amendment provides for 1 million within the Human Rights Fund to be spent on reconciliation projects between Israelis and Palestinians. The coverage would also come from Article 1, the Human Rights Fund. I agree with the importance of reconciliation projects, especially at this time of political impasse; I have spoken about this before. Quality and management are central and therefore I see the 1 million as a target amount. I'll do my utmost to do it. I can imagine that part of the spending will go over 2016. Nevertheless, let there be no misunderstanding about this, I support this and leave the opinion on this amendment to the House. I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 13, on raising the Human Rights Fund with €817,000 et cetera. This has to do with sending a signal to the Palestinian Authority. I reject this amendment for a number of reasons. The transfer from the Ministry of Prisoners to the PLO was a small step, because it is no longer paid by the PA. Of course, much more is needed. I very much agree with that. The system hasn't changed. I do not believe, however, that an amendment is the method of dealing with it. The OS programme is largely implemented with NGOs and international organisations. Only a small part goes to the Palestinian Authority, namely payments to security personnel. By reducing the contribution to security and the rule of law, the Netherlands would send a negative signal on a subject on which Israel and the Palestinian Authority are working well together, namely security. This would go against the importance that the Netherlands and the international community attach to the continuation of security cooperation, which is now essential to help prevent further escalation. I would also point out that the formal coverage mentioned in the amendment does not correspond to the coverage indicated in the explanatory text accompanying the amendment. They're OS resources on the BuHa-OS budget. So it is not just my budget, it is also my colleague Ploumen's. I would really advise against this amendment. I don't think it's gonna do anything either. We're already sending out signals and having conversations. I don't think people are really awake about this. I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 15, which is a replacement of the amendment to item No. 11, on religious freedom and the freedom of life.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u351	In the meantime that amendment has also been replaced, namely by the amendment on item No. 41.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u352	Okay. Are you talking about the amendment to item No. 15?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u353	Yes. In substance it is the same, I am whispered here. So you can give the substantive response to the amendment to item No. 15. In the series, however, this has been replaced by the amendment to item No. 41.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u354	Okay. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I should like to leave this amendment to the House. It is a good thing, in itself, to remain a little on that 1 million in terms of religious freedom and freedom of belief. It is also one of the priorities of human rights policy. These projects are financed by the Human Rights Fund. They are financed through the embassies in different countries and through NGOs such as PAX in Iraq and Syria and Forum 18 in the Caucasus. I think it's okay. You don't have to go back into the Human Rights Fund. We support the importance of this amendment. I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 16, which is a replacement of the amendment to item No. 14, by Mr Ten Broeke and Mr Servaes, on the increase of Matra by 3.2 million. The aim of this amendment is to increase Matra's commitment by 3.2 million, making the total budget 30 million. The cover indicated is Article 4. I have already spoken about this in the first term. I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber and I am certainly in favour of it. I believe that I have dealt with all the motions and amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u355	That's right. Thank you very much. I see that Mr Servaes has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u356	It's always a pain in the ass to be a game breaker. I had asked the Minister to reflect once more on that Amnesty International report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u357	The Servaes are absolutely right about that. It's on a piece of paper that was left of me, because it was a question. I apologize for that. We have looked again at Amnesty International's report on Mr Servaes' first and second term questions. Where these data are correct, we shall proceed with that. That means that, as he wishes, we share this with the lawyers, the human rights defenders and others who are working on it. In any case, we are going to work to ensure that this happens and, where possible, we are going to do so ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u358	I also have a rappel. In my second term, I asked the Minister whether he wanted to comment on what he meant by an active contribution from the cabinet to the debate in the run-up to the referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u359	Oh, yeah. I think it is important that the Dutch Government stands for the signature it has signed. We therefore believe that this association agreement is important, for a number of reasons which I have made clear. We live in a very uncertain world at the moment. In this respect, stability at our borders is essential. This is not only in the interests of Ukraine, but also in the interests of the Netherlands. The Treaty also creates economic opportunities. The association agreement covers several aspects and is also desired by the Ukrainian people. We will make that very clear in the debate. As I did today, I will do so during discussion meetings. Other members of the cabinet will do the same. We're gonna stand for our signature, as it's called.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u360	For example, will the cabinet organise its own meetings? Are you all right on tour? Will the Foreign Minister or the Prime Minister travel through the Netherlands to explain why this is a good association agreement? What's the government gonna do with this? I do not yet see the beginning of a practical implementation of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u361	This referendum has now started from within society and on the basis of new legislation. At the moment, I think the most important thing is that we take this very seriously. It is now up to the referendum committee to organise that referendum and then to provide information on it. Then there will be campaigns from society and from different areas. There's money for that, too. The cabinet's not gonna claim that money. We are not going to drive buses through the country ourselves. We are going to engage actively in the debate. We will not dominate in that, but we will not run away from the debate. We're gonna stand for the signature we signed. The groups in the Chamber will have to make their own assessment and decide what they stand for. At least the members of the cabinet support what we signed at the time and what I defended here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u362	I understand Mr Grashoff's question, because the consequences of this referendum can be very great. If there is a vote against this treaty in the Netherlands and the cabinet decides to take over that result, or to ask the Chamber to take over that no, then there is a lot going on. That is why I would like to support Mr Grashoff's appeal. I would like to call on the government not only to express its opinion when asked for it, but also to campaign actively. The government will not use the money available for that campaign. I think that's right, because the government has its own money. I ask the Minister to use that and to make it clear to us what his campaign means.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u363	I don't need that call. I just said that the government is actively supporting her signature. So we're going to actively promote this. That's what we'll do during the upcoming campaign. However, it is not the case that the entire Dutch population is now waiting for the government to tell us what the situation is. This is a social initiative. I assume that political parties and MPs will get involved in this discussion. The Dutch Government will also actively do so. Mr Sjoerdsma will notice that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u364	Perhaps Minister Koenders will be able to inform the Chamber of what that active information will include in the campaign in due course. Given the time, the Minister will not do so at this time, but I would ask him to do so at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u365	I have just told the Chamber what the government is going to do in this area. That seems to me to be a clear positioning of something the government supports at the moment. She will actively promote that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u366	The question of whether Mr Sjoerdsma and the Minister agree on this at least does not need to be answered in this evening's debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-19-tweedekamer-8.u367	The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday, except for the motion on item No. 19 and those in part No. 20. They are held until after the examination of the external trade and development cooperation budget. The motion in part No. 18, which in part No. 22 and that in part No. 33 are still being modified or merged. Also the motion in part No. 37 is under arrest. The amendments will be voted on in the final vote.
