ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would ask everyone in the Chamber and in the public gallery to stand as far as you can. I would like to welcome the ambassador of France to our midst. Friday evening, November 13, 2015, the world was shocked by a series of horrible attacks in Paris. The weekend had just begun. People went out. To a café, a football game, a concert; places where you normally feel safe and free. Around 9.30 p.m., the first message came: explosions at the Stade de France and a restaurant. From that moment on, the messages quickly followed each other. And despite the chaos and uncertainty, the extent of the drama quickly dawned on us. Even now, four days later, it remains difficult to understand what has happened, how deeply France has been affected. The attacks in Paris have been the biggest since the Second World War; 129 people have been brutally murdered, and sadly, this number is expected to increase further. Three Dutch people were also injured, two of whom are still in hospital. In my mind, we are in France. We stand shoulder to shoulder with the French people in this difficult, sad and fearful time. That turned out very clearly yesterday, when we were quiet for a minute in many places in the world; also here in the House of Representatives. I myself was present at the French embassy. I found it an impressive moment, especially after the end of the minute silence, when the people who were there began singing with the Marseillaise; first very quietly, later increasingly louder and more convincing. On behalf of the House of Representatives, I have informed the French Parliament that we condemn violence and extremism to the fullest extent possible. That we stand for our rule of law, democracy and freedom, where we find each other with words. That we grieve for the victims and sympathize with their next of kin and all the people in the hospitals who fight for their lives. We wish the French people much strength, strength and unity. I would ask you all to observe a minute's silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-tweedekamer-2.u2	I shall suspend the sitting to give you the opportunity to express my condolences to the French ambassador.
