ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u1	A warm word of welcome to the Secretary of State, who may be in the building for the whole week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. At first I think: is this a very shocking change of law that we are discussing today? Maybe not, but on the other hand, the passenger transport and mobility Act in the Netherlands is very important. Especially in a small country like the Netherlands, with relatively many people in a small area, it is very important that individuals can easily, quickly, efficiently and preferably as cheaply as possible go from one place to another in order to live, learn, work and recreate well. The CDA thinks it's very important that you can travel from door to door without having to take anything out of your bag or pocket all the time, where you can choose: walk this piece, take a bike, hire a bike, take a taxi, take a bus, catch the car, train or one of the beautiful modes of transport that might be there in the short term? That's the power, because now you often hear "I never travel by train" or "I only travel by train." Then we'll do ourselves but also the people who say that. Let me give you an example. I was in Rome the other day. I like to come into the eternal city. There I spoke to Dutch people who were there by chance. They said they always take the subway because it's so easy in Rome. Now the metro in Rome is indeed very easy and if you don't get into the buses, you think: oh dear, where do all those buses go? But I said, "Try taking the bus next to the subway." At the end of the weekend, in the Church of the Frisians, we met again. Then those people said that they also took the bus and that a new Rome had opened for them. It is, because then you see other things and more things than on the subway, but I'm sure you understand that. What I mean by this is that if we can stimulate and facilitate people to use multiple modalities at once, the possibilities for us all are growing. This is very important for the well-being of our people, but also for the prosperity of the Netherlands. In this context, the CDA considers it very important that we pay close attention to the Passenger Transport Act 2000 and its amendment. Does the Secretary of State think that the current law offers sufficient opportunities to ultimately achieve a set of modalities from which you can choose? Otherwise asked, what does the Secretary of State need from the Chamber to work towards that in the future? That's what we really want to go to, isn't it? When we look at how, at least at the moment, we arrive at these different modes of transport, we see that the mobility cards play an important role in this. At the moment you can say that some 550,000 people, about 6% of the workforce, use mobility cards for commuting alone. More than half, 300,000, is offered by the NS via the business card; the rest, 250,000, is offered by other providers. Other providers are also looking at new, better technological applications, especially in relation to fuel, time, road capacity, environment and labour productivity. In this context, the question arises as to how the NS and other providers can offer the best possible product in the future. In the chain door to door, with things like the rental bike, the rental car, the taxi, the bus, the train and the refueling, there is a lot of providers. In this sense, a level playing field is automatically created. However, there are fewer providers on the train. This level playing field may be somewhat compromised. How do we ensure in the law that we maintain a level playing field for all providers, now and in the future, who want to offer a mobility card? Or is the law already equipped for that, or does it take something to change that? If you are dealing with a monopolist on the main rail network, that is the Dutch Railways in the Netherlands, which currently offer more than half of the mobility cards to........................................................................................................................................................................................... The same problem may arise if you compete for a concession for regional transport. We saw that in Limburg. We should not get that again when offering mobility cards. Is there a level playing field for mobility card providers in this respect? If not, what it will take to secure this in the law? In the meantime, the concession parties have set up a platform for cooperation. That's the National Public Transport Committee, the NOVB. The CDA considers this to be very important, particularly in the context of subsidiarity. If a platform can arrange things, the government shouldn't be in between. If I understand correctly, this is also the Secretary of State's approach. How do we make the NOVB even stronger and how do we ensure this in the law? Is there anything else we can do about that? The more we can do the platform, the less we have to worry about it. The draft law entrusts the ACM with the supervision of the detailed rules concerning the institutions issuing electronic transport tickets, the market for payment services in public transport and the distribution of revenues from the use of electronic transport tickets. The legislative proposal also lays down the sanctions available to the ACM. We have already talked about the power of the ACM. Perhaps the Secretary of State could briefly comment on whether the position of the ACM in this regard is strong enough. This afternoon we also have a debate on it. In that context, I have prepared a number of amendments with Mrs De Boer to strengthen the position of the ACM. According to the Secretary of State, is that necessary? There is tension between the customer-friendliness of the OV-chipkaart and the information needs of participants, especially when it comes to check-in and check-out. Is the Secretary of State going to take care of that or are there any other priorities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. The OV-chipkaart could of course have been a wonderful system. Travellers could have made use of public transport with all conveniences. Unfortunately, we have had a lot of childhood diseases with the O.V. chip card. In retrospect, we could have dealt with these problems sooner or even in advance if we had listened carefully to the criticism. Even when the problems arose, we watched for too long without really intervening. Now there is a legislative proposal for us to change this. We hope, of course, that this will happen. In our opinion, however, the OV-chipkaart and the systems behind it are infrastructure. Infrastructure should actually fall under the responsibility of the Secretary of State. That doesn't belong to a company founded with public money. We sold World Online shares and sold Telfort shares, and the money for that, billions, used to finance the O.V. chip card. It was all founded with public money and then it's all housed in a private company. A company whose top also felt it was necessary not to adhere to the beaming standard and to deliver very poor performance. In the meantime, the company is being transformed into a cooperative of all carriers, but the SP Group is curious how this will be worked out. TLS was founded with community money. Does the Secretary of State see any money back from what was tucked in, or is the money now being given away to the carriers? Our criticism of the OV-chipkaart was that there was too little direction. The Secretary of State is trying with the bill to get more direction on the OV-chip card and the product offer. That is something we have been asking for for for a long time. The Secretary of State also wants to make it possible to enforce certain cases if the concession parties do not come out among themselves. These are now working together in the NOVB. Can the Secretary of State explain what expectations it has of the NOVB? Cooperation between parties which have to compete with each other will probably not always be smooth. In that case, there is often a need to intervene. My question to the Secretary of State is, therefore, when has the time come to intervene or not intervene? How often does she expect to have to intervene? I must admit that the legislative proposal is an improvement on the current situation. Now it is a great chaos, because of all the different OV products and non-coherent systems used by OV companies. The Secretary of State hopes that, after many meetings, there will be consistency. Poldering and meetings is of course always fine, but the question is whether there should be so much meeting to get a bus ticket. Can't carriers use their time better? Why should such a complex system with so many different transport regions, tariffs and products be facilitated? Why isn't the Secretary of State really going through with this? Why doesn't she just take the lead so that everyone knows where he or she is, especially the traveller? The OV-chipkaart would provide simplicity and clarity, but I do not think there have been so many different travel products before and the traveller no longer sees the forest through the trees. The SP Group would like a response from the Secretary of State. No further action is taken within the chosen framework either. Surely it is a missed opportunity that this bill does not offer any opportunity to intervene in the rates of urban and regional transport, by, for example, creating a possibility of setting a maximum rate? In our view, the possibility of setting maximum rates is also in line with the objective of this legislative proposal, namely to be able to intervene if cases that are cross-licensing or of national interest are not satisfactorily resolved by the concession parties. Recently, we saw huge price increases in various regional concessions. These increases caused a great deal of incomprehension among travellers. Travelers suddenly paid a lot more for the same trip. This is causing confusion. Suddenly you have to pay a lot more for the same mile. The question is: why does the Secretary of State leave the opportunity to intervene in such a case?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u4	I hear Mr Bashir saying that he wants to sit on the carrier's seat. I would like to ask Mr Bashir about this, because if there are fluctuations in the rates, it is also because this is necessary for a final business operation. There have been agreements with the concessionors about this. Does Mr Bashir realize that the carriers can contact Mr Bashir for compensation if they do not get the budget back? Mr Bashir proposed setting maximum rates. How are we gonna fix this? There are two parties that pay for public transport: one the traveller, two the taxpayer. How's he gonna fix this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u5	If my proposal is adopted, carriers and regional concessionaires and distributors will know that maximum rates can be set. At the time when they set an exorbitant rate, they can expect the Secretary of State to use its power to intervene. Then they know in advance that if they are going to introduce bizarre tariffs, there will be intervention. They can focus on this and come up with a realistic price, including towards tendering.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u6	If the prices of buses in Limburg go up, Mr Bashir is here asking the Secretary of State to limit them. Again, there are two ways of earning: one comes from the traveller. If these prices cannot be raised - which could indeed lead to a final exploitation - is Mr Bashir prepared to add tax money as a second form of income? 'Cause it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u7	The proposal is clear. With 'exorbitant price increases' I am not talking about an ordinary price increase that follows inflation, for example, or slightly more than inflation. I'm really talking about exorbitant price increases. We have seen them in The Hague, for example, with price increases of 20%, but also in other regions. We have also done research ourselves and then we saw that in some regions prices had risen by 30% to 35%. That's exorbitant. At that time, a debate may take place here in the Chamber, but that is not necessary. It may also be that the Secretary of State himself decides that this is out of proportion, that this is a cross-border concession and that he sees a role for himself to intervene. Then the Secretary of State can intervene and then the question arises as to who should pay for the missed costs. It seems logical to me that this is the person who issued the tender and not the national treasury. I note that double take-off rates are now a thing of the past, but this does not yet apply to the difference in the level of the take-off rate. This creates differences in the price of the outward and return journey when travelling through two concession areas by train. Is resolving this also something the NOVB is currently or should be concerned with? I would like to make one specific point. As of 14 December 2014, the OV-chipkaart can no longer be used on Texel. In response to my parliamentary questions on this matter, the Secretary of State wrote that she would like to use the present bill to make the O.V. chip card mandatory on a national basis. Is that already in preparation through a General Measure of Governance? Will this continue to apply to all regions? At the moment there are also reports from, for example, Zeeland. There, too, we would not want to make use of the chip card in certain regions. I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. With this bill there will be clear rules for the O.V. chip payment market. The Christian Union welcomes that. We don't know exactly what rules will come up yet. They come under lower regulation. The Christian Union would like to know more about when the matters which the State Secretary wants to achieve are actually dealt with in this law for the traveller. My group also wants to tighten up the law on a limited number of parts. First of all, let me address the issue of user-friendliness. The new Article 30.2 allows rules on the quality and functionality of tickets. This may include the obligation of the O.V. parties to provide single check-in and check-out in the rail chain, so that the forest can be dealt with by crossing posts. These poles mostly hinder passengers and make them miss the train. The Secretary of State and I have had a lot of discussions on this. We have been waiting many years for this to be tackled. If we wait for the initiative of the carriers in the NOVB, the deadline for implementation is certainly not reasonable anymore. The Secretary of State also wonders whether it is possible to achieve the desired situation on the basis of self-regulation. The AMvB is meant to be a stick behind the door, but when does the Secretary of State say: now the border has been reached and I am putting the AMvB in? As far as the Christian Union is concerned, the AMvB is being prepared as a matter of urgency. The ChristianUnion wants to have the single check-in and check-out done by 1 July 2016. If the Secretary of State does not make a commitment today, I am considering tabling a motion on this point. According to the explanatory memorandum, Article 30.2 also means that tickets must be readily available at reasonable prices and accessible conditions of use. The Christian Union considers this interpretation of user-friendliness to be too narrow. For example, the article should also cover the equipment you need for this. For example, it should also be user-friendly for people with disabilities. That is what I have the amendment on item No. 10. I also miss provisions on the privacy of the OV-chip card system in the article. For example, it is now mandatory to keep travel data because the Tax Administration needs to be able to check whether declarations have been made and because the traveller needs to be able to make use of the money refund scheme in case of delay. What happens if a traveler who doesn't want to, but wants to use a subscription, doesn't have an anonymous card? The Christian Union wants the AMvB to include a rule stating that the traveller can erase his personal travel history if he agrees to do so, not to be able to use the money back scheme in case of delay. I have also tabled an amendment on this subject, namely No. 11. It lays down rules on the protection of travellers' privacy. Article 30 also allows rules on fares and conditions of carriage. These could be rules on a level playing field for travel by different means of transport and across concession limits without leading to a change in fares and conditions. That's nice; of course. Why, however, is this also a possibility? The NS has for years refused to replace its system of tariff units with a system based on the number of kilometres travelled. As a result, passengers on some routes, such as Breukelen-Woerden and Lelystad-Zwolle, are significantly more expensive off for the same travel distance. I would like to hear the Secretary of State promise that she will oblige the NS to calculate all rates from 1 January 2016 on the basis of the number of kilometres travelled according to the shortest route. On this point, too, I am considering a motion. The Christian Union wonders why the Secretary of State can opt for all of these provisions at all. Due to the determination, the AMvB is presented as a kind of extreme agent if agreement in the NOVB is not achieved. Does the Secretary of State currently see any reason to actually settle matters in an AMvB? If so, what are the points in the bill? The Christian Union wants more clarity on this. In existing Article 32 (3), it is already mandatory to lay down open access rules. Why is this a requirement, but does the new provisions on access to the chip card in the bill suddenly apply? Why this difference? The Christian Union is considering an amendment to lay down in the legislative proposal that the rules in question should be drawn up rather than being able to be drawn up. I will let it depend for a moment on the course of this debate whether we are actually tabling this amendment. The Christian Union believes that the position of the Secretary of State with regard to the NOVB should be strengthened. It is good if consensus can be achieved and it is good that this has also been achieved at a number of points around the OV-chipkaart. But innovation is still far too slow. Take travels into account. When can all consumers throughout the whole of the country travel on account? Is it not time to make clear agreements on this? The Secretary of State also states that the NOVB itself can set a deadline for finding a solution to a problem raised. The Christian Union believes that the Secretary of State himself should have a decisive voice in setting such deadlines. Furthermore, the Secretary of State states that it is not intended to cross the outcome of the NOVB Council with new rules based on changed policy preferences. I don't think the Secretary of State can say this. In that case, the House of Representatives will no longer be able to table any motion on the OV-chipkaart. In the end, the primacy lies with the Chamber and not with the NOVB. The NOVB cooperates exclusively in the area of the OV-chip card system. This bill also has this narrow look. The Christian Union believes that this is a missed opportunity. The concepts of "accessibility," "use-friendliness" and "interoperability" should also cover other aspects of the organisation. Let me give you two examples, starting with the rights of travellers. For the traveller there is still no uniform money-back-by-delay scheme for a journey from A to B carried out with several carriers. The Secretary of State states in the note following the report that this does not fall within the scope of Article 30 (2) because it concerns travellers' rights. My group does not understand this. This article therefore makes it possible to lay down rules on the conditions of carriage, but apparently only if these are to be applied to the O.V. chip card. But not when it comes to travel rights. That is true, while passengers' rights are part of the conditions of transport. They are not only there for the carrier, but also for the traveller. This limitation of the scope of Article 30 (2) does not seem to the Christian Union to be user-friendly. I have an amendment on this point. 12, which provides for national rules on uniform passenger rights to be adopted. A second topic where cooperation is desirable is the marketing of ov. Back in the day, you had the joint commercials for the d.V. on TV. Now every carrier is responsible for this. Fine if the NS is running a campaign for the benefit card. But where's the complete O.V. marketing offensive? The star spots are dominated by a lot of road transport and not by public transport. I'd like the Secretary of State's view on this. I do not have an amendment on this at the moment, because in some provinces it is not the carrier, but the government that is responsible for the proceeds. This makes the cooperation in the field of marketing very difficult. I am well aware of that, but I would like a response from the Secretary of State. According to the State Secretary, the scope of the bill is not about the functioning of public transport in a broad sense. According to my group, this is the crux. We believe that the 2000 Passenger Transport Act, which we are discussing, covers the whole of the area. Is this law still sufficiently up-to-date, as new forms of payment and intelligent apps are emerging? I come to the second part of the bill: the payment market. The proposed Article 30a and beyond offers opportunities to develop rules for a well-functioning payment market. Simply put: there may be rules for an orderly national introduction of new payment forms, such as paying with your mobile phone. This law ensures that TLS cannot favour one carrier at the expense of another and that parties other than TLS can also issue tickets. I have two questions about this. Firstly, the Christian Union notes that the bill is mainly about transport tickets, but actually very little says about the hardware, the check-in and check-out posts and their back office. Article 30a (1) refers to bodies issuing, managing or operating electronic transport tickets. The whole infrastructure of check-in and check-out is not mentioned there. Is that one underneath? Can this bill also create competition for TLS, which will allow another party to manage check-in posts in part of the Netherlands? Does this law force the party to cooperate well with TLS, so that both parties accept all tickets, from any provider, at their posts? If that is the case, why doesn't it say so explicitly in the bill? If it isn't, does TLS have a monopoly on the poles? I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. The legislative proposal focuses exclusively on the system of tickets, tickets and payment services of public transport. That is what the note on the basis of the report says. However, the bill does not regulate a different organisation of the transport market. Under this bill, no rules can be imposed on the importation and sale of mileage by new suppliers or on large-scale consumer contracts concluded between carriers or with other providers of mobility services. My group is disappointed about this. The Chamber has adopted the Dik-Faber/De Boer motion. It not only mentions new innovative possibilities, such as paying with your mobile. At the heart of that motion was the introduction of the roaming system into the public service pay market. In other words, several providers can offer their own national products and buy them in bulk kilometres from the carriers. NS could then sell subscriptions that are also valid with Arriva. Blokker could become a formidable competitor with cheap day tickets that are valid for all carriers. Now Blokker still has to negotiate with all carriers a card that is valid throughout the country. It is therefore often the case that promotional tickets are not valid for all carriers. The ChristianUnion wants the Authority to ensure, as in the telecoms market, that all mobility providers can do business with all carriers at reasonable rates. The question to the Secretary of State is why it does not carry out the almost unanimous vote in the Chamber on this point. Since the State Secretary is not carrying out the motion, I have an amendment in consideration similar to the roaming arrangements in the Telecommunications Act. Since this was not introduced from today to tomorrow and because the market needs time to prepare, I naturally took into account an introduction period, which can be decided by the Secretary of State. My group is thinking as a deadline of 1 January 2018. It is good that Article 30c provides for data on travellers' flows to be made available, but does it guarantee the full implementation of my motion on open data? I do not yet read in that article that these data should be available as open data for everyone, so not just for the concession provider. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. Finally, I have a question about the cost to the traveller. The intended effect of this bill is that there will be more travel ease. In the explanatory statement, it is stated that the costs may lead to a partial reduction in the rate of increase for all passengers, but what is "a limited increase in the rate" and how does this relate to the fact that in the Netherlands tariff increases are regulated by the concession holder? Will we be getting proposals for additional tariff increases every year? And why should the traveller pay for service that should be taken for granted? Why does the traveller have to pay for solving problems that transporters themselves have caused in designing an O.V. chip card system, because in the first few years they have looked at them with their own eyes and not put the traveller first? If we opt for a market with more mobility providers, there will be competition on service and there will be no need for price increases. Then the traveler really is in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mr. Chairman. This legislative proposal provides for more access to data on transport flows for new mobility or payment service providers. Mobility providers can develop much better O.V. products with data on transport flows and provide tailor-made travel advice. Examples include products and information that take different forms of mobility, including bike, train, loan car and so on. As a result of increased disclosure of data, these providers can investigate individual travel behaviours, looking for the best and most advantageous subscriptions or travel forms. This creates a better product and therefore more freedom of choice for the traveller. This is very important for the traveller who can obtain customised travel advice from door to door upon request. In addition, the aim is to allow new providers of mobility services or payment services to enter the public service pay market. Having new mobility or payment service providers can lead to a better and cheaper product for the traveller and more freedom of choice. The customer should be able to access all modes of public transport with an easy means of payment and not be hindered by a variety of different payment systems. This bill provides the basis for this. The starting point of the law is primarily self-regulation of carriers and concession providers through the achievement of consensus in the National Public Transport Council, in which all carriers and concession providers are represented. However, if the NOVB cannot reach an agreement, which frustrates the accession of new mobility service providers or payment services, this bill will allow the State Secretary to intervene in AMvB and to draw up rules of play. So it gives the Secretary of State a certain power of perseverance if the parties themselves do not come out in the National Public Transport Council. As Liberals, of course, we are directly in favour of more government intervention, but we are also realistic and we see that we are dealing here with an imperfect market. In order to make the existing system of data more accessible to new entrants and thus to allow more competition, what can contribute to more market forces.................................................................................................................................................................................................... In the case of an open market, an open market, the VVD considers that the perseverance created by this bill would no longer be necessary. We ask the Secretary of State if she can respond to the inclusion of a horizon clause in the law. We can then see if an evaluation will allow the perseverance power to be dropped. Within the National Public Transport Council, carriers and concession providers will be engaged in a regulatory framework for transparent, non-discriminatory tariffs, conditions and access of new entrants or candidates for the provision of, inter alia, new mobility services and payment methods. Unfortunately, new providers of these cards and services are not involved in the gaming framework that is indeed starting. I think that's a missed opportunity. The new providers are looking for innovative new products, while existing carriers are aiming to preserve their own interests. In what way can this group also be involved in forming a gaming framework? I'd say just let them join the meeting. I am considering tabling a motion on this point. It is clearly not the intention of the Secretary of State or the Chamber to interfere with the level of tariffs, as Mr Bashir wishes. This would nullify the decentralised tariff freedom and would be contrary to the decentralised concession system in public transport. The legislative proposal also supports this position, but it is unclear what role the Secretary of State himself identifies here. What role does the Secretary of State intend to play here? Is there also a form of supervision of the pricing by the largest carrier on the track? The legislative proposal entrusts the ACM with the monitoring of compliance with rules for a well-functioning public service payment market. That is a good thing, but what exactly is this monitoring about? That doesn't quite make sense. The National Public Transport Council is also working on the development of a data base for transport information. When will that transport bank be ready? I agree with Mrs Dik-Faber that we have been waiting for this information to be made available for some time. That can really be revolutionary in public transport. In short, the amendment of the Passenger Transport Act 2000 could make the public transport market more accessible to new mobility providers by making transport data more publicly available. This will make it easier for new providers to join and give rise to freedom of choice and improvement of quality in the public service pay market. The market gets room to innovate and that's good for the traveller. With the opening of the payment market for other providers, we can grow into a demand-driven market instead of a supply-driven market, which it is now. From product to mobility service, that's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the proposal before us. The Labour Party is pleased that there will finally be perseverance for the Minister. We are pleased because of the possibilities offered by the bill to intervene in the public transport market. In short, to cut the buttons when carriers don't get out of each other. As has already been pointed out by the government, this bill serves to make it possible for me to paraphrase government intervention through regulation, with the justification that self-regulation does not solve the problem of cross-fertilisation in the system of tickets, payment methods and payment services in public transport. The proposed changes are part of the decentralised concession system. Carriers are therefore the first to take the initiative to solve cross-fertilisation problems. If this does not succeed in time, the government can then enforce the necessary measures through its system of regulation and supervision. This seems to be a sensible choice for now, because the problems, including multiple check-in and check-out, the concession limits, which create inconveniences, the multitude of regional travel products, the problems for people with disabilities, the lack of information and the lack of complaint handling, will be a matter for the past more quickly by adopting this bill. At least we hope so. Everyone here, but also everyone outside this Chamber, agrees that it is time to take steps in the area of bureaucracy, red tape, points of contact, unreadable conditions of use and unclear information. Rules will apply equally to both the main rail network and the regional concession areas in this legislative proposal. We should also like to receive a statement of reasons on this point. What consequences does this provision have if, for example, cross-progressing problems relate only to regional concessions? We would like to have an explanation on this point. We would like a statement of reasons from the State Secretary as to why the supervision of compliance with the rules in Article 30a, first and third paragraphs is invested in the Authority for Consumer & Market (ACM). The construction of laws and regulations at the moment makes this the most logical step; it is in line with expectations. However, I would like to comment on this point. The argument that the independence and expertise of the ACM is decisive here seems to be fair, but the ACM is designed to maintain market surveillance. Since there is a strong consolidated market with few players, a public character and largely public money and public interests, the PvdA Group wonders how it is ensured that the ACM review is appropriate to the circumstances and to the nature of the "market'. My group would also like to hear whether there has been any thought, for example, to organise this differently and what arguments have been decisive in this regard. In the explanatory memorandum, the government states that substantive matters and technical matters are dealt with in AMvB. That offers a lot of room, especially for the cabinet. A front of the AMvB to be made is not yet provided. We would like to know from the Secretary of State whether it intends to send the decisions it is going to take to the Chamber. If not, we would like to do so and perhaps make a proposal on this point. I trust that the Secretary of State will meet us on this point. The Secretary of State can do a lot after this law has entered into force. She can do a lot of things, but the question is whether she's gonna do something, or she's gonna intervene. Rules may be laid down concerning complaint procedures, payment services, tickets, payment services. We would like to be more precise when intervention will take place and when it is justified. How will the Secretary of State deal with the prudential aspects, a good word for the desire to intervene or not? This is because it affects the functioning of this bill and its effectiveness.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mr. Chairman. We are talking about a change to the Passenger Transport Act. In general, this should be about choices that travellers can make about how they wish to be transported. That is actually an optimal system for a market. In this respect, I would say that previous choices in this area have been good. They were aimed at the market and the choice of the traveller. Of course there will be children's diseases, as Mr Bashir says. If you introduce a new system, things can't go well at first. Sometimes that has to do with ourselves. Sometimes we have just set too few basic conditions. I am thinking, for example, of the wood of poles that Mrs Dik-Faber talked about. Maybe we could have foreseen that. We might have been able to do something about that, too. However, it is never too late to look at that, especially when you see that the market is not working properly. As has been said, the market is, for the most part, working pretty well. When I look at the concessions, the quality of public transport and all kinds of things, I see that there is a positive development in public transport and that there are also a lot of product choices. In my opinion, there can never be too many choices, even if the traveller no longer sees the forest in Mr Bashir's eyes because of the trees. However, I think that the market ultimately determines what goes on and what does not if there is a lot of choice. It's about door-to-door transportation. You can indeed make different choices in that. It is then just right that this should be done as user-friendly as possible. As a right-wing liberal, I actually think that the market should regulate itself, but it does not work perfectly as it has just been said. That is a reason for me to say in advance that I support this bill, because I think it is a good thing to add some things to it. I do so in the hope that the rights granted to the Secretary of State in this way will not have to be used and that the parties who have to implement it will be able to arrange it themselves. So I hope this is some kind of stick behind the door that helps to make things better. One of the things that really bothers me is that it is not possible to check in and out of a single check-in. We've talked about this before in an AO. I think this is really very important for ease of use. It would be good to set a deadline for that. Ms Dik-Faber spoke about 1 July 2016. Perhaps that is indeed a deadline that can be set and it should actually be settled. I would like to ask the Secretary of State about these deadlines. Can the Commission state the period within which it intends to take action? How much patience does the Secretary of State have before she feels that the parties themselves are letting it go too long? And once that has happened, does she think that there will be a moment when it is settled, the market itself can do it and it can withdraw from it? If she is planning to intervene, how will the House of Representatives be involved? Mr Hoogland also spoke about this. How does that work? Is there gonna be a front? How is she going to inform us about the steps she intends to take? Are the rights we give her in this system sufficiently forward-looking? Is this enough to facilitate the introduction of future payment systems? If we do that, will we not create the risk that old payment systems may have to be maintained which are used too limited and will therefore become too expensive? I imagine there's a risk if you have multiple systems. The Secretary of State writes in the explanatory statement that she is capable of giving herself the right or that we give her that right to ensure that there remains a national payment system. That is fine in itself, but can that also lead to a system that is simply too expensive? I assume that this cannot happen and that other systems will be beneficial enough, but my question to the Secretary of State is: is that a risk or do I see it too gloomy? In short, I think this is a good addition to the Passenger Transport Act. If it is right, it works in favour of the traveller and creates more clarity. I would say that the Chamber should be pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mr. Chairman. Three million passengers per week benefit from the fact that they can use one card to use the whole of public transport in the Netherlands. However, a number of barriers still hinder ease of use. They are often the result of the system behind the card. As far as I'm concerned, the traveler is central. A number of spokesmen have asked whether demand-oriented or supply-oriented work is being carried out. We need to make the O.V. chip card more user-friendly. It must be a national system which must not be at the expense of the benefits of decentralisation and market forces for travellers. I shall return to Mr Bashir's question on Texel in a moment. In principle, this legislative proposal has two brackets: the importance of travellers benefiting from a user-friendly payment system and the importance of a well-functioning public service payment market. In the NOVB I make agreements with local authorities and carriers on national concession cross-border issues. Consumer organisations are also involved. When I look at the functioning of the NOVB, I see that there are complex issues on the table and that they have the perseverance power to make decisions. However, it is well known that I want to be able to intervene if parties fail to come forward. To that end, I now amend the law. This isn't just an intervention. Some spokesmen assume that I am just threatening and they are asking if I will actually intervene. The answer to that question is yes. I'll give you the example of single check-in/check-out. Reports have been written on this in the past. There are many obstacles and it is complicated to get out of them. It is known that there will be a pilot running, including on the Valley Line. As far as I'm concerned, that pilot is the beginning of the introduction. If there are bumps that keep getting our goal further out of the picture instead of getting closer, I will, for example, intervene. In this way, I can safeguard public interests where self-regulation is inadequate. I would like to emphasise that I think it is important that self-regulation is dealt with. The number of parties is clear, we fit in one room. At the moment when the inner drive is there to make arrangements together, listen well and be creative, the traveller has the greatest interest in doing so. A stick behind the door is never funny and I don't know if it will lead to optimization, but I'll use that stick. I shall vote in favour of the directive because it gives me those powers; I do not have to use them when parties come out of it themselves. In this way, I can take better account of the moment and circumstances in which action is to be taken. Mr Van Helvert asks if that is enough. Yeah, that's enough. Of course, I need Parliament, because if Parliament shows that it supports me in this, I can apply it at the right time. That's why I use the word "can." I shall come back to the question raised by the Labour Party, among other things, how I am going to involve the Chamber. In principle, all concession cross-border issues that have a national impact can be covered by legislation. I was just talking about the single check-in/check-out. Mr Houwers said that this is an important issue for him. I have just indicated that it is perhaps one of the most complicated issues. However, I am not going to let that go, and I am experiencing the support of the Chamber. The same applies to the roll-out of travel on account, on which Mrs Dik-Faber started, for the provision of data from the O.V. chip card system, which the groups of the CDA and the Christian Union talked about, and for the harmonisation of the tariff structure of interoperable travel products. Once again, as far as I am concerned, the parties in the NOVB should first be given the opportunity to come up with adequate solutions. Only if that does not work, or if it is not done in time, will I proceed to legislation. I just wanted to talk to you about Texel. I have previously informed the Chamber that I would also like to regulate Texel with regard to the national operation of the OV-chipkaart. Mr Bashir asked for that. To arrange this for the whole of the Netherlands, I need a law change and an AMvB. The legislative proposal goes beyond the issues of cooperation within the NOVB.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u13	I already have a question about this general introduction by the Secretary of State. Indeed, the bill is based on all kinds of kan-provisions. The Secretary of State states that it wishes to give the parties in the NOVB the time to come up with solutions. A number of parts, such as the single check-in/check-out and account travel, have been spoken by the Chamber for a long time. I have been a Member of Parliament for three years now, and I think I have been talking about this for three years, and perhaps my predecessors have been. When is the time for the Secretary of State when she really thinks she should get to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u14	That depends on the progress of the pilot that is being started. We have agreed that a pilot will be launched. It will also be started. I just indicated that the pilot is the beginning for me. And after the pilot we continue, in the sense that we will finally arrange that single check-in/check-out. There's no way we're not gonna fix that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u15	However, I do need the Chamber to be more "smart" about this. I need us to hear clearly from the Secretary of State what is the state of affairs within the NOVB regarding the various subjects, not only the single check-in/check-out, but also, for example, the travel on account....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is of course very good that a pilot has started, but it may take ten years for something like this to roll out all over the country. I really want more grief information from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u16	The answer is very easy. You know the work plan of the NOVB. You know the times attached to it. You know the reports. So those answers are all there. I have just said that there are a number of issues that I will certainly intervene on. I know there's gonna be a pilot on the Valley line, and I'm happy about that. I want that pilot to get off to a good start so we can make meters. That pilot is the beginning of the rollout for me. And as for the other topics within the NOVB: more smart than in the work plan of the NOVB and the reporting I can't make it for you. The quarters are just written there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u17	Perhaps a supplement to what Mrs Dik just asked about the single check-in/check-out. I have already indicated that the interests of the participants are different from customer friendliness and that it is therefore important for the Secretary of State to take her role in this. I ask the Secretary of State what is actually to be piloted at this point; you just have to make sure that you only check in once and check out once. Does it have to do with how the participants deal with it or with their interests in it? I also understand that there is a very clear deadline for that single check-in/check-out, because the quarters have been mentioned. That deadline is not entirely known to me, but that may be a shortcoming on my part. Can the Secretary of State share a little bit more about this right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u18	This does not apply to the single check-in/check-out. That's what we agreed to start the pilot. The single check-in/check-out is the biggest wish but also the most complex issue. In the past, a committee has considered it. I believe that two years or two and a half years ago a report from the chairman of that committee, Mr Meijdam, was published. It also shows how complex it is. I think it is a challenge and not a problem. The only question is how to get there as quickly as possible without the care and the fact that it is actually going to happen being hampered by pressure on a process in time. I got a stick behind the door. I also experience that of the Room, especially when it comes to single check-in/check-out. That pilot's gonna run on the Valley Line. The Chamber has been informed about this too. I think it is important that this pilot is carried out in such a way that, at least on that route, the roll-out can become final and that we can do so on other routes as well. At the moment when there are several trade-offs that are no longer in balance with each other and one does not come out of it, I will use that stick. Mr Hoogland asked how we would do that. I do want to be careful and involve the Chamber. For topics that are subject to regulation, I will first address them in a general note and necessity and proportionality, and I will send that note to the House of Representatives, so that she too will see what the considerations are to do. 'Cause we'll do something. Then we're actually gonna intervene. In the main note, I will then outline what the public service pay market looks like, what regulation is going to do about this and what the intended effect of that regulation is. Financial aspects and administrative burdens are also considered. Clearly, I want to reduce the administrative burden as much as possible, but the convenience of the traveller is paramount. Local authorities, transporters, consumer organisations and other stakeholders are involved in drawing up the headline note. Only then will concrete regulations be drawn up in an AMvB, which I will then hang for at the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u19	I am surprised at what the Secretary of State says, because there has already been a consultation when this bill was made. So everyone involved has already been consulted. And now the Secretary of State wants to go and talk to everyone again. The Secretary of State may, of course, discuss what she wants, but the point is that she doesn't come up with rules for a year, a year and a half, two years or perhaps even later. What timetable does it have in mind when it comes to introducing these rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u20	That depends a bit on the subject. Sometimes the threat of the stick is sufficient to remove some obstacles within the NOVB. It may also be that the threat of the stick is not sufficient and then it must actually be removed from the closet. I am always very pleased with the contribution of the SP Group to this issue because it gives me all sorts of things and she is very anxious that I should intervene and arrange it for her, but we have the system as we know it now and we are dealing with decentralisation, involving multiple concession providers and multiple concessionaires. In that system, we have to do it. So I can't sit in the chair of other concession providers. At the same time, I would like it to be dealt with at national level. So I have concessions to take into account. So I am a little less far-reaching than the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u21	That is clear, but what matters to me is that a consultation has already taken place. When this bill was made, everyone was consulted and everyone was able to make a contribution, which the Secretary of State probably did something with. Now the bill is there and there must be another consultation. Let's make it a little more concrete. When can we expect the mandatory introduction of the national OV-chipkaart in, for example, Zeeland and on Texel?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u22	I'm putting the process into effect of the law amendment and the AMvB, and I'm taking the Chamber with me. I think that the consultation is slightly less radical than with the single check-in/check-out. I think it's important. Of course, it's not the same consultation as before the bill. On a subject-by-issue basis, we need to look at how we can bring our interests together. I don't know if you see that with me, but I also see where interests are sanding and where they can be overcome. The NOVB and the stick behind it will together be sufficient to actually introduce this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u23	I still want to talk about the check-in and check-out. In addition, I expect a little more from the Secretary of State. She says that one pilot is started on one trajectory. That is the Valley line, a good example of how cooperation can work. So that is a really good example, while we also know, of course, that there are examples of situations where things are a little more difficult. The question is whether we should then have a pilot, while ultimately it is about different interests. The participants each have their own interest and besides that you still have the interest of the customer. In this sense, the efforts of the Secretary of State and the Cabinet should be greater in this respect. Can the Secretary of State not take the lead in this more clearly by not only setting up a pilot but also clearly telling the NOVB that we want a deadline for the check-in and check-out at once?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u24	I have just explained that we are right to take the most complex dossier as an example of intervention. I also think that is very good, because I think that this is a dossier which has received a lot of attention and which has so far achieved little. I hear the words of Mr Van Helvert, whom I share. There's good cooperation on the Valley Line. It is important to show that good cooperation can eventually overcome the differences of interest. I can promise that I'll see if I can make this legal one year after the start of the pilot. Then the Chamber has a hold, just like me and now also the players.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u25	Thank you. Fine. There is a deadline in this commitment, which I think is very good. But I hear the Secretary of State is gonna check on this one year after the pilot starts. On this very point, because we know that there is a difference of interest between participants and customers, should we not say: we are going to settle it? Perhaps we can support the Secretary of State with a motion in this, so that she feels supported by the Chamber that this should actually be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u26	I understand your wish, which I share, as well as the end goal, but I also see great complexity in today's system and what we want to get out of that system. I think that complexity is a challenge and not an insurmountable problem, but I have also learned one thing from the files in this part of my portfolio over the past two and a half years. To increase the pressure and really sit on the pressure of time rather than on the goal that is eventually reached and show that you do not let go, are different elements for me. I've learned by now that under pressure a lot of fluid becomes liquid, but in the end I don't know if we'll have the most perfect solution. So I would like to give Mr Van Helvert this anchor. The Chamber will see me on this file a little longer. I'm not letting go. This is known in the NOVB and the parties know it. We've come a long way in the last two and a half years. I think we should take very big steps where single check-in/check-out will be the crown of everyone's work. I hope all the parties listening have heard this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u27	We've been talking about single check-in/check-out for seven years, it's important that that's settled now. I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment that one year after the start of the pilot, she will make up her mind about whether to legislate. But the pilot hasn't started yet. That can also be at the end of 2015. If we wait a year for legislation to be drawn up, we will lose a great deal of time. Isn't it an idea to start preparing the AMvB now so that we don't waste any time and we can really quickly introduce this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u28	I repeat that the Chamber knows that this is a very complex subject and that this has been going on for so long that many investigations have been carried out. I think this should be done carefully. Let us agree that in the next NOVB report I will indicate what the NOVB is about. The report of the NOVB will also pay more attention to the single check-in/check-out. I am holding on to that anchor because that way the sector knows that there is no point in postponing this pilot. It's been promised by the end of this year, the fourth quarter. I assume that it will continue and that next year I will be able to report to the Chamber in the fourth quarter whether or not I go into the legislation. I also assume that we will be able to act quickly in the process. Given the complexity, I want to see more doing under pressure of time perceived as a challenge and that this issue is actually resolved. I do not want to be caught up in the fact that the timetable is not being met, which means that we have no result. So far this method has been working well in the NOVB. With the stick I have at my disposal after the adoption of the legislative proposal, it is going to run even better as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u29	The Secretary of State has an anchor point and insists on it. That is good but at the same time she indicates that she is talking to the NOVB to hear how things are going there. However, this bill aims to ensure that the State Secretary does not have to leave this to the NOVB but can simply say: it must be settled in the interests of the travellers, then I want to be clear about the single check-in/check-out. When will the Secretary of State strike with the fist on the table? When is she gonna take care of this so we don't waste any time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u30	I don't think Mrs. Dik-Faber heard me right. After this part of the debate, it is clear to the parties what my position is and what the position of the Chamber is. I think the room is my boss. I have indicated that I am going to hit the table with my fist and that my boss is okay with that. I think that the parties in the NOVB are now well aware of the importance of this pilot and that there is no going back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u31	The last time you slapped the fist on the table here, the furniture didn't survive. Please don't repeat that!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u32	Mr President, I must do my job well! The legislative proposal goes beyond the subjects for which the NOVB cooperates. In the organisation of the payment market, the interests of the parties do not play a role in the NOVB, such as providers of mobility services. Creating a level playing field is a public task and therefore does not lend itself to self-regulation in the NOVB. I would therefore like to be able to lay down rules for the proper functioning of the public service pay market and the great role played by TLS, with independent supervision by the ACM. Mr Hoogland asked whether I had considered other options, given the question of the ACM. Yeah, I've been looking into whether supervision could also be done through the ILT, but since I'm the concession provider of the main rail network, that choice has been lost, because I think the roles should remain pure. I don't want to supervise myself. Then I know the outcome on the wrong days. That is not the intention, but another party has been considered. I have also looked at monitoring by the ACM in view of the interests of parties other than carriers wishing to operate in the public service pay market. The CDA indicated that more providers are being looked at. The rules may include, for example, fairer access by new carriers and payment service providers, such as mobilitymixx, the open payment market, the way in which TLS calculates tariffs and the way in which transport revenues are distributed. The Christian Union also spoke about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u33	I was waiting for an explanation as to why the ACM is the most appropriate body to do this, but it didn't come. Actually, that's what I was asking for. I also stated in my contribution that it is best to be fair and understandable that the ACM supervisor should be but that it is good to reflect on this legal treatment. After all, the ACM is an institute based on the fact that there is a market that functions. However, I also described in my contribution that in this case a number of characteristics of a market, which are present in other areas where the ACM supervises, are lacking: a small market, a limited number of players, fairly consolidated, new entrants difficult. I'm asking you to reflect on that. How does the ACM deal with these other market conditions as far as you are concerned than in a regular market? That is important for the way in which you supervise and organise supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u34	I think this is a very fair question from Mr Hoogland. We are talking about the concept of the market as a single concept, in which each market is the same. But it's not. Tomorrow we will talk about the taxi market. Today we are talking about the rail market. Each market has its own specific circumstances. I believe that the ACM, from its role and the purity of its tasks, should be able to assess the value of that market. As I told you, I've considered the ILT, but I don't think that's an option, for the reasons I just indicated. From its independent role, the ACM will have to deal effectively with the different markets and must be able to consider them. On the basis of this bill, the ACM can supervise the payment market for the DV, both in advance and afterwards. For example, in the event of an infringement, the ACM may impose a penalty payment. She has ex ante surveillance as a strong tool. The role of the ACM and the fact that it is the ACM is not surprising to me. I think it is quite right that you describe the fact that we have set up markets in a certain way. The rail market has quite few players. In general, they are not private players, but in some way all government players. For example, they have a parent company that is a state company. So I fully agree with you, but I do not see any other supervisor than the ACM in mind at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u35	I can share the conclusion that another supervisor is difficult. Then the question is: what are we going to do? What are you going to do, I would ask the Secretary of State, to discuss the fact that the market is different from a number of other markets under the supervision of the ACM? Are you going to ask how the ACM looks at this, especially in the light of the remarks made by the ACM and one of its board members about the rail market? In so doing, the ACM has allowed itself the freedom to express its views on the way the rail market is organised. That's not a job for the supervisor. Moreover, we are quite capable of dealing with this; it is good if a supervisor also occasionally lets us know how she looks at it. It's hard because the market is different. What are we going to do with that? Because that's how it stays a philosophical debate. That's nice, but we're not getting anywhere with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u36	I leave the ACM's comments on markets to the ACM. I believe that the ACM itself should be accountable for its statements. At the same time, however complicated, I note that every market has a different form. I have just mentioned the taxi market, which we will be discussing tomorrow, and the rail market. The same applies to the energy market and the telecoms market. Every market can have its imperfections or have conditions that we have created together. If the ACM is monitoring it, I think it should do so in a pure way, which fits in with the law as we see it here. It is the professionalism of the ACM to actually look closely at those markets and perform the enforcement task properly. And passerby, I answered Mrs De Boer's question. Mr Van Helvert asked a question about the possibility of sanctions. The ACM can maintain by means of penalty payment. This is provided for in Article 94 (f). I'll come back to the summary of what I just said. The legislative proposal has two interrelated interests in mind. One of these is that of the concession-cross-border traveller, who benefits from a user-friendly payment system. Mr Hoogland asked me about regional concessions. The answer is: yes, it can also be done in the event of a concession overrun, in the case of several regional concessions. That also applies. The second is that of an open and well-functioning innovative market for payment services in the Federal Republic of Germany, on which parties other than carriers may also be active. I would like to make one thing clear: this law does not reverse the decentralisation of regional transport, urban transport and regional transport. This brings rich powers into balance with decentralised powers, in order to better safeguard public interests. I have also consulted consumer organisations, TLS and the NOVB, because in the end we have to do it together, but my role in this consultation is defined in a different way, because the stick is in the picture. A number of questions have been asked, including what is regulated in lower legislation. Mr Bashir and Mr Houwers have asked what I expect from the NOVB. That's what I just said. The NOVB has a work programme, which it reports on, and I think it is important that decision-making takes place there. Is hardware also regulated? Mrs Dik-Faber asked you to do that. Yes, the legislation covers the entire payment system and also covers the issue, use and functionality of the hardware. Mr Bashir and Mrs Dik-Faber have asked whether or not, on the basis of this bill, I can interfere with public transport tariffs. Mr Bashir was even clearer and spoke of a maximum rate. I do not choose to give the Empire the power to set rates for urban and regional transport in general. The same applies to the maximum rates. This would nullify the decentralised tariff freedom, and it would also be contrary to the decentralised concession system. It is therefore not included in the legislative proposal. However, the legislative proposal gives me the power to regulate, for example, a system of concession-cross-border tariffs and products, which promote the use of public transport rather than hinder it. That is precisely what this is about, because that is in the interests of the traveller. For example, harmonisation of the tariff structure for interoperable travel products could be included. I am aware that this may create tension between, on the one hand, the tariff freedom of the decentralised authorities and, on the other hand, the desired coherence and transparency in concession-cross-border products and tariffs. If a scheme is needed, careful consideration will always have to be given. Mrs Dik-Faber has asked for a commitment on single check-in and check-out. I've already answered that. Mrs Dik-Faber also pointed out that the bill states that a limited rise in the rate of charges may be a consequence for travellers. She literally asks why the traveler would pay for that. The explanatory memorandum states that costs may partly lead to reduced tariff increases, partly financed by concession providers and partly borne by concessionaires or TLS as system operator. That will be worked out in the main note in which I will indicate how I intend to proceed with this. If that is the case, it will also be shared transparently with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u37	The proposal I have made allows for the setting of maximum rates. So the Empire is not obliged to introduce maximum rates, but if there are exorbitant price increases, you have the opportunity to intervene. I don't understand why the Secretary of State is against that possibility. Can she go into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u38	We have set up a system with decentralised concessions and a main rail network concession. Decentralised concessions and invitations to tender are also a matter for that decentralised government. There are councils and states that oversee that. If I intervene in the national system by setting a maximum rate, it will have consequences. The question then is what the maximum rate would be, how to set it up and how concession providers and concessionaires should deal with it on a decentralised basis. As far as the whole system is concerned, intervention is not something that fits perfectly into the system and that is why I am not in favour of it. We should never have gone into decentralisation. We did, and in that system, I want to continue to operate purely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u39	You can operate purely when you see that the price increases are exorbitant, for example 100% or 150%. Or lower prices, of course you can, for example 50%. Then you wouldn't be able to accept that, because it's a cross-border concession. It is of national importance to ensure that everyone can continue to use public transport. I myself would find it unacceptable. Then you could intervene. I would also point out what the Secretary of State himself wrote to the Chamber in response to the SP report. We presented this report to the Secretary of State two years ago. The Secretary of State says that it is against extreme price increases and considers them undesirable. If it is against it, it should create instruments to intervene if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u40	Where I find price increases undesirable is where I am competent, namely in the area of my own concession. In the case of regional concessions, these are decentralised agreements between concession holders and concession providers. The price increases that can take place there have also been agreed between those parties. I'd like to leave them there, too. In this way, intervention takes the foundation out of the system. Mrs De Boer's question was about the definition of horizons. I am not in favour of a horizontal clause. Something can disappear without further looking at it. I think it is important that I inform the Chamber regularly about the progress. I am in favour of evaluation and then, if necessary, a legislative amendment. I'm not saying in advance that anything in five years' time should be out of the law if it goes well through a Royal Decree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u41	In my second term, I would have liked to go a little bit more into it. The amendment is just there, fresh from the press, and I can already serve the Secretary of State. The amendment does indeed provide for an evaluation clause. This could be done with a commitment, of course, but in five years' time the world will look very different. It is perhaps a good thing that the law lays down that there will be an evaluation. The explanatory memorandum then refers to a horizon clause but it is not incorporated into the law. I think we can very well find each other there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u42	Then I will read the verse of the press amendment and I will respond to it. We have talked extensively about the NOVB. A number of things in the NOVB have been well arranged, but low-hanging fruit is always easy to pick. The question now is, of course, whether we can solve the following complex issues. Mr Van Helvert asked: what do you need to make the NOVB strong? This kind of debate and this bill, that's what I need. Then a number of questions have been asked about TLS. Mr Bashir asked about the money involved in TLS and the state of play. Declarations of intent have been signed. The declarations of intent have been further developed in concrete financial and legal transactions. A number of companies want to check this out in the parent company or in the legal field, which is understandable. That's where we're at now. We aim to establish the cooperative in mid-June. It's May now, so hopefully this won't take too long. However, I also believe that there is a need for rest and that the care of these companies should be used. The transactions take place entirely in the private domain. There is no question of the Empire getting money back. Then to Mrs Dik-Faber's question: does the bill also allow competition? Yes; competition is already possible. The bill offers opportunities for a level playing field and for safeguarding public interests. I now come to the amendments. An amendment has just been tabled, that is Mrs De Boer's amendment. The amendment in part No. 9, Mr Bashir, refers to the maximum rates. I have just argued that the system is as it is. As far as I am concerned, there is no question of reversing decentralisation. It is precisely through this decentralisation that tariffs are also set at a decentralised level. Therefore, I do not choose to give the Empire powers to set rates in urban and regional transport, so neither do I when it comes to maximum rates. This would nullify the decentralised tariff freedom and, as far as I am concerned, is contrary to the decentralised concession proposal. I therefore reject the amendment. The amendment in part No. 10 member Dik-Faber deals with the quality and functionality of the equipment. The interpretation of the proposed Article 30, paragraph 2, is such that the quality and functionality are already covered and also the accessibility of the chip card for disabled persons among others. As far as I am concerned, this amendment is superfluous, but I leave it to the Court to decide. In the amendment to item No. 11 member Dik-Faber discusses the protection of personal data of the traveller. We have now precisely regulated personal data and protection in the privacy legislation. I think that the current system of data retention has been carefully established. It is important that we do not change them in this way. Consumer organisations, the Minister of Finance, VNO-NCW and the Tax Administration have all been involved and it has been established in this context. I advise against this motion. The deadline is determined by privacy criteria and service and business purposes. For example, payment handling and fraud detection are involved in business purposes. It has been examined whether the passenger himself should be allowed to erase the data, but that is not allowed and therefore this maximum retention period has been chosen. I am convinced that because all the parties I mentioned have looked at it together, it is also secured from every angle. In the amendment to item No. 12, also of member Dik-Faber, deals with the user's rights of the traveller. This amendment does not relate to the O-chip card, while the bill is limited to the payment system. The amendment concerns the implementation of the transport agreement. That's why this isn't the right place to work something out. It is also superfluous, because the 2007 regulation of the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union on the rights and obligations of passengers in rail traffic includes a "back money in case of delay" regime and this regulation operates directly. I would advise against this amendment. The amendment in part No. 13 also belongs to Mr Dik-Faber. The content of the public transport market and the telecoms market do not work in the same way. In the telecoms market, it is possible to use each other's network via roaming. Public transport is not a question of the network. Anyone can ask for space on the railway at ProRail and the road is free of charge, but in particular a good offer of services and products. These services are site-bound. In the telecommunications sector, for example, the products and services are not localised. Therefore, it is not known what this amendment would mean and a comparison with the telecoms sector is not sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u43	I was triggered for a moment, because I missed the moment of liberalisation. At that point, I would have really liked to put out the flag. There is talk of requests for space on the main rail network. In my opinion, the main rail network is exclusive of the NS and other carriers cannot drive there. International transport can take place over it. But I may have missed something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u44	No, Mrs. De Boer didn't miss anything. In the legislative proposal we are discussing today, we have looked at the possibility of regulating the payment market. This amendment is not about the payment market, but it intervenes directly in the market organisation by interfering with the exclusivity of the rights contained in the concession. There was no consideration of the intended and unintended consequences of this amendment. Moreover, the parties concerned in society have not been consulted on this issue. The ACM has not been able to indicate whether this fits into the organisation's work package. The Council of State has not been able to advise on this matter. I should therefore strongly advise against this amendment. I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on I've gotten the good version by now. It is true that things have changed in that regard. I was rather more critical of the text, but if I read the text now, I can leave the opinion on this amendment to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u45	Fine. So much for the first term. Is there a need for a second term among Members? I see that's the case. I call Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u46	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. This bill allows the Secretary of State to use a number of powers to ensure that deadlocks are broken. I must say, however, that the Secretary of State does not seem very forceful to me. It wants to take another year to come up with additional rules even after it has carried out a pilot. Why is she taking so much time for this? We've been talking about all the problems with the O.V. chip card for years. Why can it not come up with additional rules as soon as possible after the legislative proposal has been adopted? That way, in the run-up to the pilot, she can solve the problems directly. I have also asked questions about the different boarding rates. I have not yet had an answer to those questions. Finally, I come to my amendment. I regret that the Secretary of State does not want to create powers either. I am not saying that it should immediately lay down rules on the maximum rates. The point is, there's a stick behind the door. We need to be able to intervene if there are really exorbitant price increases in concession areas, which could make public transport priceless for a lot of people. If you build up such a power, that does not mean that it must be used immediately. You can use it. It can also be a signal to local authorities and transporters. They will then know that they should not directly raise the rates significantly. I would therefore like to suggest to the Secretary of State that we take another good look at the amendment. If it embraces the amendment, it does not mean that it must act immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u47	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the clear answer. I would like to comment on two points, and I would like to table a motion. Should I read that motion now, Mr President, in this term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u48	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u49	The first motion is about checking in and out. The debate is very clear. We all want in this Chamber that we only have to check in once and check out once, regardless of which carrier and preferably whatever modality you are using; but let us talk about the carriers here. The Secretary of State says she won't let go. I believe that very much and I also see her passion, but she doesn't really grab this and she leaves the bat in the closet. The Secretary of State says that one year after the start of the pilot project, we assume that we are going to start this year, but that is not yet certain whether she is going to take care of this. Since the interests of the participants in this, the various carriers, differ and are not the same interests as those of the travellers, the CDA wants the Secretary of State to take care of this. No matter how long we do pilots, the interests of the participants remain different. The check-in and check-out traveller doesn't have to wait for that. That's why we're filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that customer-friendliness of the IV-chip card and the information needs of the participants are not uniform targets;]] [[noting that check-in and check-out should therefore be carried out at the time of the transfer to another carrier;]] [[calls on the Government to urgently come forward with a time plan to permanently end the check-in and check-out when transferring to other carriers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34042-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u50	I have a question about the motion. We all agree on the substance of the motion and the text, but there is one question that remains: does Mr Van Helvert think it would help to table this motion? We talk about this a lot. This falls a bit into the category that we all want sunshine and covered bike paths. There have already been agreements made in the NOVB, in the Transport Council. That's where they're working on it. I would like to vote in favour of the motion; that is absolutely not the point, but I am also a little bit in the hair because we sometimes do things here that I think are useful and have some effect? So my question is: what is this motion really going to mean for the traveller? That is, in the end, the one for whom we are all doing this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u51	First of all, I welcome the PvdA's support for the motion; thank you for that. Is it gonna help? I will first give a general answer and then a more specific answer. If we feel that what we say and what we do does not help in this Chamber, we should go home quickly. I agree with you that democracy is never as fast as we would like. As a teacher, I sometimes said that Gaddafi could do things much faster than we did, but that has its drawbacks. Of course it is. So not everything is going very fast, but I'm sure this will help. That may be because I am still new here and I am not a Member of Parliament as long as you are, but if we in the Chamber say that we want to take care of this, that we do not wait for pilots and that we do not allow the interests of the participants to prevail over the interests of the traveller, I am sure that will help and strengthen the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State cannot answer that, but I am sure she will be strengthened by such a ruling. Of course, the Secretary of State in this Chamber, with the camera on, cannot say that the interests of the participants interest her less than those of the traveller. Of course she cannot say that, because that would harm her position in the consultation. I therefore welcome the fact that the Secretary of State does not say so, but that is independent of the responsibility that we, as representatives of the people, have to say that we only want to check in once and check out once. Hence the motion, but I welcome the PvdA's support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u52	I would almost say: let us not make the seniority of parliamentary membership a subject of debate here. Indeed, you are shorter than I am, but that does not count; you are right. In this respect, therefore, I fully support your commitment. I also understand a little what you are saying, although I found the comparison with Gaddafi somewhat less subtle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u53	I have a question for Mr Van Helvert. What does his motion do more than what the Secretary of State has already promised us? Contrary to what I have just heard Mr Bashir say, it is not the case that the Secretary of State comes up with something after the pilot has been completed. The Secretary of State comes up with something within a year of the pilot's start. Does this add so much? To put it bluntly: isn't this a bit of symbolic politics?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u54	That's a bit like the previous question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u55	If Mr Houwers has followed the debate well, he has clearly been able to hear the difference in approach. With all due respect to the Secretary of State's approach, there is a very clear difference. That's why the debate between us was there for a while. Why are we holding a pilot? There's only one pilot on the same page all over the Netherlands and based on that pilot if it starts, hopefully this year, we're going to decide a year after the start if we're going to do it. That's what the Secretary of State said. I can now say on behalf of the CDA: let us decide now that we are going to settle it because the interests of the participants remain different, no matter how long we pilot. Come on, that's what the motion says, with a timetable at which point we're gonna arrange it. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u56	I have followed the debate well. In that respect, there is no difference of opinion. But I think I have heard the Secretary of State say, but I'd like to hear it from her herself later, that if it's not settled, she'll just take care of it in a year's time. So she didn't say, "I'm gonna think about doing it." I understand from her that she's doing it. I can't wait to hear the Secretary of State's answer later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u57	We heard what we heard in the debate. I can only repeat what I said. I will leave it at that as far as the answer to Mr Houwers' question is concerned. It is now also about mobility cards and an OV-chipkaart 2.0, where you can use all the modalities with one pass, or later not even a pass. Whether you want to use a bike, a car, a train, a bus, a tram or a sandwich or a can of Coke, all of this must be possible with one ticket. That can be done anywhere with many providers, except when it comes to rail. The NS will therefore have to open up the network at cost-oriented rates. To make sure that doesn't go wrong and we don't get any troubles, but just a level playing field, I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is desirable for providers other than the NS to be able to offer mobility cards competitively;]] [[noting the desirability of creating a level playing field for all mobility card companies providers;]] [[calls on the Government to come up with a proposal to allow companies offering a mobility card to reduce train kilometres or subscriptions to NS at wholesale rates at cost-oriented pricing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34042-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u58	Mr. Chairman. I will table a motion on behalf of Mrs Dik-Faber, who will not have the opportunity to be here. She is, however, the first signatory to that motion. I would like to begin by referring to the amendment. I am pleased that the Secretary of State states that she can agree with this and that there will be an evaluation after five years. It is important that we anchor that in the law, so that a hook is created. If there is ever to be a perfect, liberalised public transport market, we would like to use that hook to withdraw the provision on the perseverance force, which is no longer necessary. I shall now make two motions. The first motion is the motion of Mr Dik-Faber and Mr De Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u59	You say that Mrs Dik-Faber is the first signatory, but she is gone and you now submit the motion and you are the first signatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u60	I'll settle for the rules of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u61	We appreciate that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u62	The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Noting that the Chamber in the Dik-Faber/De Boer motion (23645 no. 553) called on the Government to maximise its efforts to promote the transformation towards O-chip 2.0 by ensuring as soon as possible that a roaming system is possible under the supervision of the ACM;]] [[calls on the Government to send the promised vision of the OP payment market to the Chamber within six months and to further elaborate on the advantages and disadvantages and consequences for the existing concessions of the proposed roaming system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Boer and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34042-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u63	I already announced in the first term that I was considering filing the next motion. I have not really received a clear answer to the question in question, so I shall put the motion to the vote. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the National Public Transport Council (NOVB) discusses cross-licensing issues such as payment techniques;]] [[Whereas it is important that new mobility card and service providers are taken into account by the NOVB in the development of the rules governing the payment system within public transport;]] [[calls on the Government to involve the new mobility card and service providers in drawing up this gaming framework,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Boer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34042-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u64	Mr. Chairman. Mr Bashir asked why entering the single check-in/check-out takes so much time. Mrs Dik-Faber had the archive in order and said that we have been doing this for seven years. It's not easy. I shall return to Mr Van Helvert's motion in a moment. I repeat, time is not the driving force. The fact that we're gonna take care of it now is the motive for me. I will come back to that in a moment, but I will say this in response to Mr Bashir's question. I would like to talk about the different boarding rates. Local authorities have the freedom to set their own rates. The same applies to the boarding fee. These rates may differ on different routes. That's how it's done. We've arranged that these aren't double boarding fees. The system as it is, allows it this way. I do not want to intervene in the decentralised powers, such as the stick behind the door and the price increases. I think that takes the foundation away from the way we set it up. In the Van Helvert motion to item No. 15 The government is invited to come up with a time plan for check-in and check-out. I said what I said about that. I think it is important that things happen carefully, but I think it is excellent to come up with a time plan. I will put that in the NOVB so that all parties can have their say on that. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. The Van Helvert motion in part No. 16 is about the mobility card. I support the underlying idea and wish for a level playing field for mobility card providers. However, I cannot support the means proposed by Mr Van Helvert, namely wholesale prices. After all, even then, I am attacking the concession system. I don't want to. That's why I advise against this motion. I come to Mrs De Boer's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u65	Mr Van Helvert would like to speak on the previous motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u66	I will hold the motion for a moment to see if I can change the wording, the means, anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u67	We don't know how to "hold on for a while." I like her, though.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u68	What are you suggesting? You understand what I want to do, Mr. Chairman. What would your suggestion be?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u69	Do you want to withdraw the motion or are you going to arrest her?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u70	I'll adjust her a little bit before we vote on it. What do you call it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u71	You then hold the motion and then come forward with a new version. There'll be a modified Van Helvert motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u72	Fine, I'll do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u73	We look forward to that with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u74	On the motion in part No. We have already had the necessary debate. I'll leave that judgment to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 18 The government is invited to involve new mobility card and service providers in drawing up the gaming framework. I can make a full commitment to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u75	Then I'll withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u76	Since the De Boer motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-3.u77	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her presence and participation in the debate. We shall be voting on the amendments and the motions on Tuesday. I shall suspend the sitting until 2:00 p.m. We'll have an arrangement of work.
