ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber, particularly the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. Six Members have spoken before this debate, who indicated in advance how long they would like to speak. We shall begin with Mr Van Weyenberg of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u2	Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal that we are debating this evening fulfils a long-cherished wish of my group. D66 has always argued that the pension ofzzp'ers should be as safe as that of employees. That is not the case at the moment. If you're gonna be on welfare right now, you're gonna have to eat your retirement pot first. An employee doesn't have to. His pension's safe. This legislative proposal provides that the pension ofzzp'ers and other people with a pension product in the third pillar will also be secured if they have to rely on the assistance unexpectedly. We are very pleased with that. So my group is going to support this bill, let us be clear after this introduction. This is without prejudice to the fact that I still have a few questions about the design and that I am also going to ask a question about the other part that is attached to this bill, namely the release of income from the assistance. First of all, I come to pension protection. A self-employed person is entitled to such protection if he has acquired a pension for at least five years before applying for assistance. In those five years, premium must be paid each year. The Secretary of State says that this may be up to €6,000 a year and at least, if I understand correctly, €1. That sounds good to me. A total of €30,000 can be paid during that five-year period. If you do that long-term, you can build a good pension. This bill represents a significant amount of EUR 150 million. The Secretary of State assumes that perhaps 10,000zzp'ers and other people who otherwise would not have been eligible for assistance and had to eat their pensions are now eligible. I still have a lot of questions about those numbers, but I don't have an alternative sum. So how's the Secretary of State gonna monitor that usage? In fact, if it were to become apparent that its use is less because, for example, the requirements are so strict, then there is room for my group to do something about these extensions. I can see the Secretary of State nodding. That's good. I would appreciate it if she could repeat that in her reply and commit to it again. One of the things I would like to look at in particular is whether we could create more room for the changing revenues ofzzp'ers. After all, you can have a bad year and then a very good year. Then I can imagine you saying: if you only put in €1,000 in that bad year, you can put in a little more than that maximum €6,000 in that good year. That's not what they've chosen right now. The Secretary of State fears, I think, that this will lead to more abuse. I have understood her passionate nod, in the sense that she is going to monitor this bill to see whether it is being used in such a way that it costs 150 million, or whether those demands are in practice not unexpected, even though they allow for different application per year, and then take action on them. This is why, at about the moment, an amendment is being tabled which adds to the legislative proposal the provision to evaluate after three years, with the particular request to consider to what extent the possibility of taking into account a variable income in this bill has been given sufficient scope. So I still have questions as to whether this is working properly in practice, but I am extremely pleased with the step we can take now. After all, the pension ofzzp'ers and employees who have to buy their own pension product because there is no pension fund for their sector or business will soon be as safe as that of an employee. This bill comes from agreements made by my party together with the SGP and the Christian Union with the coalition on pension-building, the so-called Witteveen Framework. Another part of those agreements was that the possibility of continuing to build up pension funds at the last employer's pension fund would be monitored. What's going on with that? Do all pension funds now offer this voluntary continuation? Do funds also offer the possibility of continuing the build-up against a slightly lower income than you had as an employee? If you start as a self-employed person, you might have a little less income at first than in your old job. I'm curious about the state of play. Can the Secretary of State say anything about that tonight? And if not, can she inform us in writing? My group has said before: if it becomes apparent that this area of voluntary continuation is not being used enough by pension funds, we will not even exclude legal adjustments towards these pension funds. Then I come to the second part of the bill. That is the release of income from labour in the assistance. That too is a step in the right direction as far as my group is concerned. It is, of course, very good if people in assistance find their way back to the labour market through temporary work. Obstacles that exist to that must be removed. I think the bill will help with that. In the current situation, people may earn up to six months in assistance. Those six months must, however, be contiguous. The bill allows this to be done for a longer period. Under this scheme, for example, you will be able to earn twice a three-month period, while those jobs are not tied together. The aim of this legislative proposal is therefore to introduce greater flexibility in this respect. Then there's one thing I don't understand. At their own request, municipalities will be given the opportunity to restrict that space themselves. It will be a bit technical, but the municipality will be given the opportunity to set a period within which these six months of additional earnings will have to be made. In theory, therefore, they can say: that must be done within six months. In that case, nothing has changed at all. In theory, they can even say: this must be done within six months of the start of the call for assistance. This could even lead to a tightening-up of the current law. My group is therefore considering tabling an amendment to restrict this area for municipalities. That is not because we are not in favour of policy freedom for municipalities, but because we would find it a little special to deal with a law here in which the Secretary of State proudly says that we are going to have more room for flexibility, but that gives municipalities a hook to keep that space equal and possibly even more restricted. That's not supposed to happen, is it? I would ask the Secretary of State to discuss this in detail. What exactly is the point of that provision? Why don't we just always leave it to people to make a living? We think that's important. That, in my view, is the purpose of this bill. In fact, I do not see any substantive reason to include a hook in the law that can actually undo that. I would ask the Secretary of State to discuss this in detail. I am therefore considering tabling an amendment proposing that this restriction be removed. If the Secretary of State does not think it is appropriate to remove the restriction altogether, I can also imagine that municipalities can impose a limit whereby the six months must be within, for example, two years, so that the period cannot be infinite. However, the current legislative proposal seems to mean that a law designed to flexibilise municipalities can in practice act as a further limitation of the scope for people in the assistance to earn a living. That wasn't exactly what it was about. The Secretary of State says that this is an important step. Is this enough to get the temporary work from the assistance really on steam? A lot of municipalities still think that's a complicated thing. That is sometimes in the rules for reapplying the four-week search period. Municipalities can use flexibility in this respect. My question to the Secretary of State is whether they will. I'm still getting signals that this would be a bottleneck. In the letter sent by the Secretary of State last year on temporary work from the assistance, she also mentioned the so-called brutality of the benefit as an opportunity. That would greatly help the implementation. The Secretary of State was going to investigate this. I would like to know what the state of play is in this regard. I wanted to leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u3	Mr. Chairman. Sometimes, in politics, it takes a number of years for other parties and their cabinet to recognise the need for certain measures. Tonight, we are discussing the bill that regulates that self-employed people who have been saving for their own pension are no longer reduced when they are in the unfortunate situation of having to call on the assistance, because this would be seen as assets. I have asked several questions about this in the past. We looked for Mr Ulenbelt to put forward a motion in April 2011 asking the government to release the third pillar of pension products in the same way as the second pillar when granting benefits under the GDP and assistance. That's when the Secretary of State advised against it. During the vote, I would like to take a very specific look at Mr Van Weyenberg, who was not even able to count on the support of D66, although Mr Van Weyenberg always pretends to include it for the self-employed. I'm glad D66 has seen the light now. GroenLinks did support it at the time. I would just like to say that I am pleased that, more than four years later, the motion is being carried out anyway. That's good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u4	I congratulated Mr Ulenbelt on raising this point earlier, when we discussed this after the agreement was concluded with the cabinet. Of course, I should have done the same today. I thank the President for the opportunity to do so now. It didn't work then, and it did now. This shows that doing business constructively with a cabinet is sometimes something I can also recommend to the SP. Sometimes it gets you some good things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u5	I always think it is wonderful that I should be allowed to put sincere compliments from Mr Van Weyenberg in my pocket. I would like to say to Mr Van Weyenberg that without a strong opposition there is no coalition or a fake position. Let's celebrate this joyous fact together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u6	The definition of "celebrating" in Mrs Karabulut is a bit different from how I define a party at home, but the essence is that as a strong opposition by doing business you can achieve very nice things. I have done this together with Mrs Karabulut and on this subject with a number of other parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u7	It's been noted. Before we make it too much fun here: it is especially good news for allzzp'ers who should otherwise have called on the assistance. It is good that workers with annuities policies for old age should be exempted from the power test. I wonder how many self-employed people have been left without a pension in recent years. How many people who wanted to take care of their old age had to eat the money for old age prematurely because of the capital test? On 1 December last year, the Secretary of State wrote to the municipalities that she intended to exclude annuity policies for the third pillar from the asset test for assistance. Municipalities had to act on this in advance. The State Secretary gave municipalities an amount of 41 million for 2015. During the written preparation, we asked the Secretary of State if this was the case. The Secretary of State didn't want to find out at the time. That is why I repeat the question in this way. How have the municipalities dealt with this area and these resources? Are there differences between municipalities? Is the money indeed spent on the purpose? Many annuities policies for old age also provide for a survivor's pension. These mixed policies are also released in their entirety in the legislative proposal, but the annuity policies that are only for next of kin do not want to release the Secretary of State. I do not understand that, especially when I read the explanatory statement. That is what the Secretary of State says about the individuals involved. But these are individuals who want to take care of their partner's old age, if necessary. Pensions for employees also include survivors' pensions. What if someone has a policy for old age and a policy for a next of kin? So it's got to meet that power test. I and my group cannot justify that difference. That is why we have tabled an amendment on this point. I come to the last point that has been included in this legislative proposal: the possibility of additional income in the assistance. The Secretary of State knows that any measure with which we make a positive contribution to all or part of the assistance comes from the SP because people can provide their own resources. I've had multiple discussions about negative laws and rules criminalising people. We see time and time again that repression is counterproductive. Changing the allowed period of release of income from labour from six consecutive months to a total of six months within a period fixed by the College is something in itself, but it is certainly not the progress my group had hoped for. The Secretary of State himself knows that it is often not possible to get to work more structurally and quickly. Then why should we stop the incentive that comes from making extra money after six months? My group therefore believes that we should work from the assistance, of course with the aim of encouraging total employment and assistance independence. As far as we are concerned, the six-month deadline should be expired. On this point, too, we have tabled an amendment which does not restrict the College, but gives the freedom of policy to release income from labour. We hope, of course, that other parties will support this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u8	Mr. Chairman. I will not recall how many times my group has asked questions about the protection of... I hear Mrs Karabulut 'toe'! Call, but no, Mr. Chairman. A good idea can count on a great deal of support, as I have already noticed during the first term of the Chamber and also on the support of the Labour Party. It is good that pension assets are exempted when you have to apply for assistance. This is generally not a happy fact, because most people want to get out of welfare as soon as possible. It's good that this is being taken care of now. It took some time, because we agreed this with a large number of parties at the end of 2013. We are now discussing a law which we want to bring into force as soon as possible. I should like to point out that we were given the bill rather late, while the execution tests according to the date on it are already in January. That means that the bill has been in place for some time. But there's already a practice. Actually, some kind of missive went out to release pension assets. But we still hear from local authorities and people that people are being told that they must first eat their pensions. My first question is very practical. How are we going to ensure that everyone knows this as soon as possible and should act accordingly? Following Mr Van Weyenberg, I have questions about this to the Secretary of State. In the explanatory memorandum to this law and in the note following the report, figures are given for the increase in the number of recipients of assistance as a result of this law. In fact, we should be seeing this increase by now, because it is something that needs to be dealt with. Is that right? Do those numbers depend on facts or not? A number of questions have been asked about the income relief, the adjustment of earnings from labour. My group also has questions about this. If we relax this, should it not be the case that municipalities are given the freedom to tighten this up, even if it comes from an execution test? That is my question to the government. We shouldn't want that. I think it's good to evaluate this. The SVB has a rather critical implementation report. The SVB states that testing the applicants' capabilities is best to be a complex exercise. In a sentence it also refers to the fact that it can be much simpler, but the SVB does not further describe how it should be. It seems to me that an evaluation is very important, because if it is complicated, we should also be able to look at whether it could be much simpler in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u9	Mr. Chairman. In December 2013, the Court discussed the reduction in the pension savings rate. Part of the agreement at that time was protecting the pension structure forzzp'ers. Today, almost two years on, this legislative change is finally ahead of us. I come first to the content and then to the trial. The VVD Group can support the current legislative amendment to protect pension building in the third pillar. It was a great desire of the VVD to make pension building possible and attractive forzzp'ers. A first step towards an own pension fund has already been taken. The pension fund forzzp'ers, ZZP Pension, started this year. Can the Secretary of State say anything about the interest and participation ofzzp'ers in this new pension fund? The step we are taking today contributes to making it attractive for azzp'er to save pension in a third pillar product. The pension saved in the third pillar will be exempted from the capital test under conditions and up to a maximum amount with this amendment. After all, pension savings are intended as an old-age provision after the retirement age. The VVD considers it fair that this savings can be used for the original purpose, but of course under conditions. We have read in the bill that the cabinet proposes to exempt an amount of up to €250,000 from the capital test. Each number is arbitrary, but because it corresponds to an average pension and fits within the financial coverage, this can count on support from the VVD. The premium may not exceed €6,000 on an annual basis. To what extent has flexible investment been taken into account? One or the other year may differ in revenue for azzp'er. Does the Secretary of State consider that there is sufficient room to fill this provision with a flexible premium of up to €6,000 in any year? I'd like a response. The conditions laid down are necessary to prevent fraud and abuse. It concerns not only the amount of the amount and the amount of the premium, but also the start of the provision, which must have taken place five years before the assistance was called for. These rules should therefore be properly enforced. Can the Secretary of State indicate when the ministerial arrangement on this point will be made public? Will this be sent to the House of Representatives? That brings me to the next point. Enforcement will take place through the municipality. In the explanatory memorandum, I see room for municipalities to deviate from the conditions laid down. What is the room for the municipalities and how should they justify it? Why was this room chosen? This can lead to an arbitrary interpretation of policy, and that is not desirable. I'd like an explanation from the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State has called on municipalities to act firmly and anticipate this change of law. The Secretary of State says that municipalities can do this already and that they can do it within the existing law. That raises the question of why there is a need for a legislative amendment at all on this point. After all, it's already possible. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. In addition to protecting the pension structure forzzp'ers, a number of other changes are proposed. The first concerns a longer period for azzp'er to decide on the voluntary continuation of pension structure at the pension fund where azzp'er was previously a participant. This proposal can be supported by my group. It is not expected that manyzzp'ers will make use of this, because in addition to the employee's share, azzp'er will also have to cover the employer's part. However, if people want to make this choice, it is justified that they should be able to take a little longer. The nine-month period now laid down in the law seems to my group to be a workable and feasible alternative. The second change is the adjustment release income from labour. For the VVD it is important that people in the assistance are encouraged to get back to work. Temporary or part-time work can contribute to this. The change in the possibility of six consecutive months of work and the release of income from work after six separate months can also count on our support. My final point concerns implementation costs. In the explanatory memorandum we have read that, according to the Association of Dutch Municipalities, the implementation costs are higher than suggested in the bill. Can the Secretary of State comment on this? How will these costs be monitored, so that we as a Chamber can also keep our finger on the pulse? Finally, I would like to focus on planning. I started by saying that almost two years after an agreement with a substantive agreement we are dealing with this legislative amendment. That's a really long time. The intended entry into force of this Act was 1 January 2015. Now it becomes very exciting whether the First Chamber can still deal with this bill on time, so that the law can enter into force on 1 January 2016. In my opinion, the First Chamber only deals with legislative proposals that have been put forward for the autumn recess. Perhaps the President can say something about this, although it is not customary for me to address the President in this debate. If this law cannot enter into force on 1 January next, what are the consequences? I have said before that it is not fancy to call on municipalities to anticipate legislation. Will the Secretary of State again call for municipalities, should the bill not be dealt with in time, to anticipate legislation? How are the costs covered if there is no proper law? This summer, at the request of the Chamber, the Secretary of State re-established the pension cut. I asked the Secretary of State to make shopping law possible at the second purchase time. During a VAO, I tabled a motion with Mr Vermeij, which was almost accepted by Parliament. The Secretary of State and the field are in favour of this. Now that there is a bill before us, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to legally anchor the shopping right for the second purchase moment. That is why I tabled an amendment, together with Mr Vermeij. Rounding up. The VVD is content with the steps that are now being taken to facilitatezzp'ers in their pension building. It is important thatzzp'ers use this space and think about the future, their old age. The government facilitates and thezzp'er is now the move.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u10	Mr. Chairman. I also had Mrs Lodder's question on implementation costs in my text, so I agree with that. Then we've already made that point. A number of speakers spoke about the third pillar: greater equality in pension provision. It is good that it is drawn equally and thatzzp'ers also benefit from it. That is a good thing. We have a few more questions. With the legislative proposal, the conditions for keeping annuity outside the asset test for assistance have been clarified. The law should go in next year. Has anyone anticipated this yet? This question is also in line with Mrs Lodder's question as to whether we will reach 2016. How many people have already had to address their annuity before entitlement to assistance arose? If this is the case, how does the government deal with these people? A lot of grass has already been mowed away at the feet by the colleagues. I think we're gonna be operating fairly together tonight. That's a good sign. The burden of proof shall lie with the applicant for assistance. Does the Cabinet guarantee that all types of pension provision fall under the protection of this law? We have already talked about the difference between what the cabinet says and what the UNG says about implementation costs. In conclusion, this seems to us to be a good proposal. It's been asked for for a long time by different parties. I think we can wholeheartedly agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u11	Mr. Chairman. Mr De Graaf has already noted that a lot of grass has been mowed away and that there is agreement on many points of this law. That is something I would like to take into account in relation to all the previous speakers on two points. The first point is that this bill has had a long run. That was just a nice debate between Mr Van Weyenberg and Mrs Karabulut. I would like to add my congratulations to Mr Ulenbelt. Then we can all have this party. That is my second point: it is very good that this bill is there. It has been clear for a long time now that we have also discussed this in various debates in recent years, and that it is not fair for a self-employed person to have to eat his pension assets if assistance is to be used. There are certain frameworks to this bill. Several speakers have just spoken about this. One can think of the generous exemption up to the maximum amount of €250,000. In addition, there is the framework for the last five years in which up to €6,000 may be deposited. My group believes that these are reasonable conditions, and it will not be very surprising to the Secretary of State that we therefore also have a positive opinion on this bill. I would also like to express my thanks for a number of clarifications given in the written reply. The note on the report addressed questions on the return on annuities released, which could rise when there is already a claim for assistance. So that power key only takes place at the entrance. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for the clarifications on banking savings within this bill. There are two questions left for my group. The first one has to do with the revision rate. What if, despite this law, you still have to buy it off? Then there is still a revision interest rate of 20%. Tax has to be paid on the pension you have to pay off, and then there's the revision interest. That could go up to 72%. In what cases does the Secretary of State see that this should indeed be done? If someone in such a situation is forced by the municipality to buy that off, isn't it reasonable that that revision interest doesn't apply? I would like to receive an explanation from the Secretary of State about this. This is becoming all the more relevant in the context of the second point. Several speakers before me have already mentioned that period of those last five years. It can lead to crazy situations and potentially conflicts. I wonder if the Secretary of State can indicate what guidelines she would like to give to municipalities to deal with this. Take the following example. A self-employed person sets aside a few thousand euros each year for his pension, but sees his position deteriorate. This self-employed decision can be a very prudent decision to stop the investment because things are going less. He may have paid the same amount every year for 10, 15 or 20 years, but in the last year it stops, because business is bad. The assistance shall be called upon after that last year. That situation can be avoided. In that case, I believe that the municipality can force the person concerned to buy all the sums for the last four years for that last year. Let's just say that whoever paid €3,000 to €4,000 per year. I wonder whether it would be fair for him to be forced to buy off for those four years, now that this bill is in place and because it may be a prudent decision of a self-employed person not to do so in that last year, because the situation has deteriorated. I would like a more detailed explanation from the Secretary of State on this point. How is it handled? Can the Secretary of State provide the municipalities with guidelines for this kind of situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u12	This brings to an end the first term of office. The Secretary of State would like to prepare herself for her response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u13	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment for her first answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u14	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their contribution to their first term. I actually believe with all the Members who have spoken that it was a long-cherished wish to anchor the power exemption in legislation. Those of us who wanted to do so, let me say in the middle, but Mr Van Weyenberg began by saying that it was a long-standing wish to anchor the capital exemption in legislation for the provision of pensions for those who come into the assistance. I am also pleased that everyone reacts very positively to it. This has been in the pipeline for a long time. It's good to remember that for the Acts. It is the result of the White Cow Agreement. Five parties were together at the time. This was one of the parts. Funds have also been made available to pay for this. It's as simple as that. For the sake of clarity, I shall begin with the amendments. This means that we have the essentials right away. That was the main point of the debate. I shall begin with the D66 amendment to item No. 11, which calls for the deletion of the possibility of a municipal regulation to fix the time limit for release. I know that this amendment is now being tabled, at the moment. It's really the moment, I can say. I am commenting on the amendment and I assume that it has simply been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u15	It's more convenient if everyone has the lyrics. They'll be able to read a little bit. Otherwise, no one knows what the comment is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u16	No, I can imagine that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u17	Exactly. There are plenty of other things you can discuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u18	Then I shall begin with another D66 amendment, the Amendment No 2 tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 10 on the evaluation assessment. I could say a lot about this amendment, but I leave it to the Chamber to decide. I think it is a good idea to look at this law over time. Mr Van Weyenberg said in his speech that we have the resources available and that he would like to know how they are used. I nodded when he said this. If there were any resources left, I say it very carefully, after the evaluation, we can see if we can use these resources in a different way under this law. I think that is a legitimate commitment. So let us address this point in the evaluation. I shall now move on to Amendment No 2. 8 on the survivor's pension, submitted by Mrs Karabulut. The aim of the bill is to protect old-age pensions. In the Witteveen chord, the choice was deliberately made. This is not the same as the survivor's pension. The old-age pension is an income provision for the post-employment period, while the survivor's pension is intended for the eventuality that an income from death falls before retirement. I think it is reasonable that this should be taken into account from the point of view of assistance. If assistance is sought, there is a loss of income, not due to the death of the partner, but because of unemployment or the loss of income of the self-employed. In such a situation, the assistance of the person concerned may require the person concerned to apply for an existing provision affecting a situation of loss of income. In the budgetary calculations it is important to add this to the list of matters not to take account of this release. It leads to additional costs for which there is no cover. It is regulated in the legislative proposal by allowing the release of annuities to be applied to annuities whose purpose is also the provision of old age. I would like to stress once again that a survivor's pension is usually arranged together with an old-age pension. Such mixed policies are entirely subject to release. Only the self-employed survivor's pension falls outside the scope of the release. The amendment is, of course, based on that. That is why I must advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u19	That's right. Many of the workers who are building up pensions in the second pillar have, indeed, linked to the old age pension, Anw. Self-employed people who, for example, save an old age pension in the third pillar, marry later and soon close an Anw pension because they think about the future and their relatives, will have to eat it later. That's just as unfair, because an employee doesn't have to. As long as we're at it, let's do it right now. I'm sure it's not about a lot of cases, but the sourder it is when it happens to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u20	In practice, we also see many mixed policies. That is what is being offered, but not for this provision. It's been a choice. I think it is reasonable that this should be taken into account from the point of view of assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u21	For example, we once started the debate on pensions in the third pillar for self-employed workers. Then it was said a little straight, which was crooked, because then it was said: it is just so; we have arranged it in this way and we are not looking at it. However, the Secretary of State himself notes that these two are often linked and that this reduction does not apply to employees if they are required to take advantage of the assistance, whereas it does apply when the pension is later secured separately. There is the unequal treatment of the self-employed. My question is therefore whether the Secretary of State can identify whether the proposed amendment does indeed have significant financial implications. I don't think this is gonna be so bad, given the numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u22	I will stick to the substantive argument that a survivor's pension is meant for the eventuality that your partner dies before your retirement. You'll still be able to work yourself, or, if necessary, apply for assistance. I should therefore like to refer to the amendment tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and to the
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u23	The same should apply to employees, shouldn't it? The Secretary of State rightly says that this is not the case because the two are often linked together. So why do one group and not the self-employed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u24	I've told you twice now why I feel that way, and I'm sticking with that. The second amendment of the SP is to delete the six months for the release of income. It will not be surprising that I do not recommend this amendment. That amendment proposes that municipalities be given the freedom of policy to determine the maximum duration of the release without limit. As a result, the release can also take much longer than six months. The release is really a temporary instrument that the college can use. I do not think that a further extension of the maximum duration of the release is desirable. It is also not in line with the safety net character of the Participation Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u25	Why not? Where we are saying that these six months are fine because they encourage people to get out of welfare, would that suddenly not be the case after those six months? After all, they are still welfare recipients. I believe that both of us want people to get out of welfare as quickly as possible. However, as long as that is not the case, my question is why you have to set the button to six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u26	A beneficiary could receive more than net income for a longer period than a worker with an income at the minimum level. A release without a limit would reduce the financial incentive to flow out. Thus an increase in revenue release leads to additional expenditure for which there is no cover. I therefore reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u27	A longer-term release up to the statutory minimum wage does not mean that you earn more than a working person. In addition, release for more than six months leads to poverty reduction. It seems to me that this Secretary of State, who is also responsible for poverty policy and knows that three-quarters of the beneficiaries of social assistance, especially single women with small jobs, are in poverty, should not be opposed in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u28	That is precisely why I propose that those six months should not be consecutive, but should be very flexible. It is also really important to look at the financial incentive to flow out. If you were to use a release without a limit, that incentive would clearly reduce. Then you keep your sidekick and you can make some extra bucks every now and then. So I'm not in favour of removing that limit altogether.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u29	I don't have any proof of that last one. So I would like the Secretary of State to provide us as a Chamber with proof that if you were to release for more than six months, people would sit in their seats and not want to get out of welfare. I dare say that the opposite is true. Moreover, this is not the case with the Social Assistance Act. Furthermore, I believe that there is a positive incentive to work even more as soon as possible. So I'd like to have proof of this statement from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u30	I think we have just exchanged why I do not opt for lifting that limit. I think it's a great thing that you can be flexible with those six months now. So I suggest we get to work on that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u31	The Secretary of State just claims that when...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u32	We have heard that and you have a disagreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u33	I would then like to see from the state secretary a basis for that statement, so that we can continue with it in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u34	I said what I said. I reject the amendment and I think it is very good that we can be flexible with those six months. Then I come to the amendment by the VVD and the PvdA on the retirement cut and the second shopping moment. Mrs Lodders has made this clear. This has been changed. This bill is a vehicle where you can make this happen. It may not be quite comme il faut, but let's go, it can be. So I leave this amendment to judge Chamber. Let me take a look at the mimicks of a number of MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u35	Everyone looks very happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u36	I am abstaining from commenting. I come to the Van Weyenberg amendment to item No. 11, which I believe has now been distributed. That amendment concerns the deletion of the possibility of a municipal regulation to set release periods. Let me look at the author of the amendment. The Implementation Panel has indicated that the designation is desirable, so that the College has more policy freedom to align the application of the partial release of labour income with the municipal reintegration policy. A college may consider that the release of 6 separate months within a period of e.g. 12 or 24 months is best suited to local reintegration policies. It is for the College to assess in individual cases whether the release contributes to the employment of the beneficiary. With the legislative proposal, it is up to municipalities to decide whether or not to set a further period within which the release of six separate months can take place. This is a wish of the implementation panel. I can imagine. This amendment, if I may put it this way, is not a big deal in that sense. I shall therefore leave the amendment to the Court's opinion, because I believe that the Chamber can make its own judgement on this matter. I have therefore dealt with all the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u37	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for leaving the amendment to the Court's judgement. The background to the amendment is the following. The law is intended to broaden something, but the outcome of the law can be....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's my concern. From the fact that the Secretary of State leaves the amendment to the Court's opinion, I take the view that this has actually been found to be correct, regardless of the consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u38	I think it is good that Mr Van Weyenberg underlines this once again. Let me be equestrian. I have, of course, listened carefully to Mr Van Weyenberg in his first term. I think his input is making sense. That is why I leave this amendment to the opinion of the Chamber, however much I know that municipalities could look at it differently, but really with the emphasis on 'can'. A number of questions have been asked. I'd like to go into that. I will pass on a number of subjects and then on to the questions of the various Members of Parliament. I'll start with the income release. The PvdA spokesperson asked: how are we going to communicate matters to the municipalities as soon as possible, so that everyone knows this as soon as possible? In the November 2014 collection letter, I informed municipalities about the possibilities under the current regulations to make temporary work and part-time work easier and more attractive from the assistance. I have already announced at that time that I intend to amend the release. If this bill is passed by this Chamber and the First Chamber, I will of course inform the municipalities again about the renewed possibilities they have to provide financial incentives to work from the assistance. The D66 spokesperson asked what exactly happened to the adjustment of the revenue release. What is the status of the temporary and part-time work agenda from the assistance? I also reported this in the November 2014 collection letter. Divosa's recent monitor also shows that a large part of the municipalities informs welfare recipients about part-time work and that more than half of the municipalities use the release of income from work. The extension of the release period envisaged by this bill is also part of the temporary work and part-time work agenda from the assistance. As I have just said, I will inform the municipalities once this bill is passed. Mr Van Weyenberg asked about the state of affairs of the investigations into the brutality of assistance. That subject is being looked at very carefully. It takes time. The brutality would mean a major system change. The net income guarantee should be released. I have agreed with the G4, the major cities, to have independent research carried out into possible savings in the implementation of assistance. The examination of implementation costs has now been completed and it appears that the impact on implementation costs is limited. The survey on income effects is still ongoing and the report is expected to be delivered this year. When the investigation is complete, I will send both investigations to the Chamber. So it's very complicated. I'll give you that signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u39	If it is so complicated and it would, it seems, be detrimental to the people themselves, then why is this whole operation necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u40	That was a request from both the municipalities and the majority of the Chamber. I think it's okay to wait for the results of the investigation and then watch how we act on it. Mr Van Weyenberg asked what exactly is happening with the use of voluntary continuation. That use is very limited. It is estimated that, including large pension funds, only a few dozen former employees have used them. It is expected that an extended application period will have only a very limited impact on use. This does not alter the fact that, for individual cases, an obstacle can be removed to an informed choice of the appropriate old-age provision. So that's what we can do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u41	On the assumption that the Secretary of State was now at the end of the voluntary continuation, I also asked whether all the funds do offer this possibility and give them the opportunity to do so against a lower income than what one had in the end as an employee. We have discussed this before and I think the Secretary of State was working to get a picture of it. I'm curious if that image is available by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u42	That's right. On behalf of the Ministry, research is now being carried out into the practice of voluntary continuation. I've already let the Chamber know that, too. In doing so, I will give effect to the agreement of the Witteveen Agreement that we would monitor. We are trying to get a picture of the causes of the very limited use. After the investigation has been completed, we can look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u43	I hope that research will then also show what most funds offer at all, regardless of whether people use them. Then we can also see where bottlenecks are and whether that might be in the offer. Can the Secretary of State confirm this and could she say when she would expect to be able to send that inquiry to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u44	As Mrs Lodder pointed out in her speech, you have, of course, also the employer's share to choose from on a voluntary basis. That could be a hiccup. We are also really trying to get a picture of the causes of the limited use. They could also have to do with the general picture that many self-employed people do not have any pension provision at all. About half of the self-employed do not so far. We need to realize that too. In short, I propose that we wait for the results of the investigation and draw up a plan. Mrs Karabulut has asked how manyzzp'ers have had to eat their pensions prematurely in recent years, because this scheme was not yet in force. We do not have precise information on the number of self-employed persons for whom this was the subject. In addition, self-employed people will not always have applied for assistance, precisely because they still have assets. There have also been many self-employed people who have eaten their savings without knocking on the assistance, because after that they have been given orders again. So they ate their reserves in the difficult years. On the part of the SP and the PvdA, the question was asked as to how the municipalities dealt with the call to act on the legislative proposal. I have assumed that, in accordance with my request, municipalities have already treated self-employed pensions in the last year according to the lines of the legislative proposal. I haven't received any signals that this would be any different. Then I come to a question from Mrs Lodders of the VVD about the entry into force. The intention is, of course, to bring the bill into force on 1 January 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u45	Mrs. Lodders, at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u46	On the previous point, in fact, because the Secretary of State addresses Mrs Vermeij and Mr Van Weyenberg's questions about how municipalities acted, but my question was why we need this change of law if municipalities can act anyway. I would like to hear that explanation from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u47	The Participation Act gives the municipalities the opportunity to tailor the assistance to personal circumstances, but this is really about individual circumstances and the municipality's own judgement. This does not provide certainty for those who do offer this legislation. That is why I think it is a good thing that your Chamber embraces this legislation at the end of the journey.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u48	I understand that, not least because, in addition to the protection of pension rights forzzp'ers, this law also regulates two other matters, but it is of course strange that municipalities can anticipate legislation that has yet to be passed by the Chamber. Then it's a bit easy to say: space is there, municipalities can do this, why should we still need this legislative amendment? All the more so because in the explanatory statement, as I also pointed out in my question, municipalities actually have a great deal of freedom to interpret themselves how they want to deal with the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u49	That is exactly the case. This is now an excellent discussion in your Chamber very often about the decentralisation and freedom of policy of municipalities, because Article 18 of the Participation Act does indeed allow municipalities to provide a great deal of customization for many things, but your Chamber has specifically insisted in the Witteveen Agreement that municipalities should be more restricted to this particular asset test. That's right. That's why your room has put up a lot of money. This is therefore also enshrined in legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u50	However, I would like to mention the use of these funds, as municipalities had to anticipate legislation. I have not yet heard the answer to the question as to whether the 41 million has actually been spent on this purpose and has thus really benefited the people who have not had to eat their pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u51	I have already said in Mr Van Weyenberg's amendment on the evaluation that, of course, I would also like to give an insight into what resources are and are being spent on this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u52	So the Secretary of State can't say whether those funds for this year will be spent on this purpose, but will we be told that next year? I'm assuming the evaluation isn't for a few years. It does not seem to me that we will not be given responsibility for 2015 until 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u53	Of course, these resources are part of the so-called bending budget. Then we always offer insight afterwards. We do not, of course, label these 41 million that are part of it, but since Mr Van Weyenberg, also supported by others from your Chamber, now regulates the review in the law by amendment, you can take these things into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u54	Could the Secretary of State perhaps tell us how that has developed this year? I assume she's familiar with that practice. She could not tell us in the written round of questions, but perhaps she can say a few words about this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u55	No, I don't really have a sharp image of that. I know, partly because of signals I have received, that it is already being applied. However, I do not have a very clear picture of how this 41 million is being used specifically.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u56	I have another question about the point that municipalities, in anticipation of the entry into force of the law, could already act on it. Secretary of State says there's money available. There wasn't. In the end, it's 150 million. That's a lot of money. I understand that municipalities can take this space knowing that there is a legislative proposal in the Chamber that can legally have a certain effect that anticipates the actual adoption of the law. I believe that this was one of the important arguments that allowed municipalities to be wider than in the past, knowing that this was done in anticipation of a bill already before the Chamber. I have not heard this argument today, but I have heard the Secretary of State say it before. It stresses the importance of legal regulation separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u57	That is also the main reason why I have already noted in my November 2014 collection letter that municipalities can prelude to this and that funds have also been made available for this in the 2015 annual report. That's what I mentioned at the time. That way you do a hand-picking to municipalities to do this already.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u58	Exactly. And that prelude would thus have been much more legally complicated if it had not been known that there was a separate law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u59	Exactly. It's been noted. Mrs Lodders asks if I can say something about the interest in the new pension fund for the self-employed. I have to make a small correction first, because there are several providers of such pension schemes, not just one fund, specifically for the self-employed. I understand that there are still hesitations in participating in these arrangements. This is not surprising in the case of a new regulation. This legislative proposal may lead to the participation of self-employed workers earlier, as it gives them greater security. Mrs Lodders also asked a question about the entry into force. If both Chambers agree, it would be nice if this bill could enter into force on 1 January 2016. As has just been changed, municipalities are already doing so, but certainty is only, also forzzp'ers, when the final law comes into force. Since the First Chamber will of course also discuss this law, there will be a short preparation time for the municipalities. We usually use a three-month period. I will discuss the date of entry into force with the municipalities in the implementation panel. If it turns out that municipalities need that time, this bill will enter into force on 1 April. But since municipalities have already started working on it, I assume that 1 January 2016 is feasible, if the First Chamber can adopt the bill before 1 January at least. Then the law will be in the Official Journal on January 1st.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u60	If I listen to the Secretary of State correctly, entry into force can also take place on 1 April, i.e. at the beginning of the second quarter of 2016. The fact remains, of course, that it is all very tight. Nearly two years after that, we're dealing with the law here. I think Mrs Vermeij made it very clear that the bill was already in place in January. I find this very difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u61	I think it is good to say once again that this has been a rather complicated whole, also because a number of things have come together here. Nor do I say anything new when I say that it has been and is still being discussed in the context of the pension file and a number of other matters. Ergo, all efforts are made to have this law in the Official Journal on January 1st. For my part, I am doing the utmost and the Chamber of Hers is doing the same. I am very grateful for that. So my appeal is: let's move quickly so that on January 1st, the place is in the Official Journal. That brings me to another question from Mrs Lodders. It's about the ministerial arrangement. It is now skinned except for one hair and also goes to the execution panel. As soon as the law is in the Official Journal, the ministerial regulation is, of course, also on the agenda. I will give the Chamber access to that, as Mrs Lodder has asked. Mr De Graaf and Mrs Lodders asked about the implementation costs. The VNG says that the implementation costs are actually higher than those included in the legislative proposal. I don't think that's real. The VNG also charges a lot of implementation costs from overhead. However, these overhead costs must already be incurred because of the need to provide welfare benefits. The power test shall always be used. The only thing a municipality has to do for this is look at whether the capital test is based on regular assets or on a pension provision. If you really attach everything to this law around an application for assistance, you will indeed have high implementation costs. So I don't agree to do that. That is why I think that the costs we have taken into account are very real implementation costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u62	My question was another one. I asked if the Secretary of State is willing to monitor the implementation costs. I have indeed read in the explanatory statement that the Secretary of State and the VNG are discussing implementation costs. I am not saying that the Secretary of State is right in that discussion whether the UNG is right, but I am very curious whether these implementation costs can be monitored in one way or another, so that, over time, we have an idea of how much money is actually involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u63	I would like to see whether we can also take a specific look at the implementation costs in this evaluation, which we will give shape to in any case. However, I would like to say straight away that this legislative proposal really concerns a limited group of beneficiaries of assistance. We're counting on 10,000 applicants on a structural basis. Only the additional implementation costs need to be incurred, i.e. without the fixed costs of the overhead. So I say again that I find the financial picture that the VNG has laid down really too firm. However, I will examine whether we can include these implementation costs in the evaluation. Mr Heerma has asked a question about the five years. The deposit during the five years for the application for assistance shall be subject to the condition that at least some deposit has been made each year. Inlays that do not meet this requirement shall not be released. So you must have deposited €1 each year. This condition applies only to the five-year deposit for the application for assistance and thus not to the pension assets accumulated in the previous years. This is exclusively covered by the overall assessment of not more than €250,000 pension assets. Mr Heerma himself said that, of course, this is also about preventing improper use. That is the reason for this condition. Without that condition, applicants for assistance could still put a significant part of their assets into an annuity just before the application, thereby keeping that capacity outside the means test.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u64	I thank the Secretary of State for the explanation. I understand that abuse must be stopped. The main thrust of my group's contribution in the first term was also that it considers the framework of the law to be reasonable in itself. However, I was talking about a prudent self-employed person who has often paid a lump sum for a very long time. Suppose that self-employed person has paid €4,000 each year for years, and thus also in those last four years. Those last four years are the only years that count. Suppose things have gone badly in recent years and suppose that this self-employed person has decided not to disturb the €4,000 for one year, in order to prevent the business from going bankrupt. This is not just about €1. In the written reply, it also refers to minimum deposits exceeding €1. Such a self-employed person must then make an assessment. Isn't he gonna deposit that money anyway, even though it's gonna make him bankrupt faster? If he does not deposit, he would have to eat those four times €4,000 of the previous four years. Such a self-employed person is therefore expected to be an act that increases the likelihood of him going bankrupt. Then it is not so crazy to give any kind of directives to municipalities to take that into account in that particular situation, in my opinion, is that never abuse.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Otherwise, we're gonna ask for crazy things from the self-employed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u65	It is also the responsibility of a municipality to assess, in individual circumstances, whether it is reasonable to impose that condition of those five years. I think that is something I should like to say for the sake of the Acts, and I think that you should put that responsibility down there, because it is impossible and undesirable to regulate all possible situations by law. This leads to extremely complex regulation. In advance, it is already clear that not all situations can be covered. The intention of this condition provides a clear criterion: is there a reasonable pension or not? I think you've got it all clear. The last question that remains for me is a question from Mr Heerma: in what cases can we deviate from the revision rate? I can't make it any better: revision interest is always withheld. Without going into detail, this is a correction to the tax benefits that the person concerned had as a result of the deduction of the pension contribution. Mr Heerma knows that too. This may increase to a reasonable percentage, as Mr Heerma underlined in his contribution, but it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u66	I believe that this revision rate is also there to prevent people with such an annuity policy year after year, based on the income of a given year, from being given the opportunity to play with it. But if a municipality forces someone to eat that capital because it is just outside the scope of this bill, for example, because somewhere in those five years there has been no deposit, then there is no question of trying to enjoy a tax benefit. Then someone isn't trying to take advantage of that, is they? Isn't it reasonable to take into account that particular situation, which is already very intense for those people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u67	In replying to Mr Heerma's first question, I have already indicated that municipalities always have to provide tailor-made services to individuals. That's what municipalities can do. But I can't make it any prettier than what I just said about correcting those tax benefits. I need to be very clear about that. It's what it is. If we wanted to do something about it, this is not the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u68	I find the latter interesting, but that revision interest is also there to prevent tax arbitrage and actual abuse. That's when you're forced to eat your built-up pension because you don't fully fit the frameworks. That's settled for a lot of people in this bill, but there are people out there. That is what we are saying: in that case it is an aid provision. But then we're gonna put that revision interest on top of it. I think we can do this differently and that's quite reasonable. If the Secretary of State indicates that this is not the time to look at it, what does she think is the time? Is the question of how this will work in practice and whether this will lead to distressing situations, for example, something to take into account in the evaluation proposed by Mr Van Weyenberg in his amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u69	This also needs to be given a place in the context of taxation, because there is not for nothing such revision interest. I would like to see whether it is possible to include this in that evaluation, but I am afraid to say yes or no to that now. That's what we need to investigate. Mr President, I have come to the end of my reply. And again, I thank your Chamber for the contribution to its first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u70	I note that there is no need for a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-23.u71	We will be voting on the amendments and the legislative proposal next Tuesday. I wish you all a safe journey home.
