ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. I would like to discuss four points today: the path taken by the Dutch Government in approving the post-tax on the payment, the functioning of Eurostat, the pension expenditure of the European staff and the content of the Member State declaration. The exact trajectory of the creation of post-taxation is still shrouded in mists. The government and the European Commission are now refusing to disclose WOB requests. We do find it interesting to know exactly what happened. I thank the Minister for the answers to the parliamentary questions. I'm going to read a few lines of that, exceptionally. The Netherlands was consulted at the beginning of 2015 on the WOB request to the Commission, such as Eurostat, the Minister writes. He also writes: The Netherlands has asked the European Commission not to disclose names, telephone numbers and e-mail addresses from these e-mails in order to protect the privacy of the persons mentioned in some e-mails. So much for understanding. In addition, the Netherlands has invoked Article 11 (1) of the Public Administration Act, on internal reflection. In addition, the Netherlands relied on Court case C-64/05 of Sweden against the Commission in order to protect private interest, then on recital 84 of the Euro-WOB Regulation and then on Article 4 (3) of Regulation 1049/2001. They are documents for internal use, and they contain policy ideas, according to the Minister. However, this is not a question of policy thinking. We are talking about a post-tax of over 600 million. The correspondence about how it came about and when the Netherlands knew what to do should simply be made public. Next, the Minister writes the following. The European Commission has weighed these and other arguments and considered that the exceptions provided by the Netherlands are acceptable under the Dutch WOB and refers to the following Euro-WOB exceptions: protection of the financial and economic policies of a Member State and protection of the decision-making process. In other words, the Netherlands raises eight objections and the European Commission says: in order to protect the interests of the Netherlands, we are not going to make it public. I ask this government whether it is prepared to write in a letter to the European Commission that it has no objection to simply publishing the documents on the creation of the post-tax of more than 600 million. This has nothing to do with internal policy ideas. This has to do with hard euros. I come to my next point, Eurostat. In the note on the report, the CDA asked questions about the European Court of Auditors' criticism of Eurostat that the new GNI would not have been correctly calculated. This seems essential to the CDA, especially for the Netherlands, which receives a post-tax of hundreds of millions of euros. For this reason, the CDA would like to know from the Minister of Finance, as well as from the President of the Eurogroup, whether any action has been taken to improve the functioning of Eurostat. Have any errors and/or miscalculations of the new GNI of the Netherlands and other Member States been detected afterwards? None of the figures were verified. The Government states that Council conclusions were adopted at European level on 14 April 2014 in which Member States support the recommendations of the European Court of Auditors and in which the Commission is called upon to implement these recommendations in so far as it has not yet taken them up. Okay. What is the state of play on this implementation? In other words, is Eurostat currently calculating GNI on the basis of which we have to reclaim 649 million, or has nothing yet happened to it? In addition, the CDA remains, of course, concerned about the functioning of Eurostat in general. I'd like to get an extensive response. In the report, the CDA also asked questions about the pension problems that arise with the staff of the European Union. As you know, the European Union does not have ABP, but pensions are paid on a pay-as-you-go basis. That means a proper claim to the European Union for the future. This concerns an investigation into the pension expenditure of EU officials. This will be published at the end of the year. Can the government lift a tip of the veil of what's being found? And is that report made public in its entirety, including the total pension claim, actuarially recalculating exactly on the Dutch foot, the Dutch ftk? That is a latent claim to the European Union, of which the Netherlands will also have to bear part. It seems clear to me that it should be public. Finally, I would like to raise another question. I'm not gonna do that for the first time. Is the government prepared to include not only expenditure but also the composition of payments in the EU's national declaration? How much do we pay to the EU? We draw up the national EU Member State declaration every year, and only a few other countries, to reflect the accuracy of expenditure. We believe that the accuracy of the payment is part of this. According to the CDA, this is important in order to obtain a clearer overview of the expenditure and revenue of a Member State. It is desirable that the composition of the national contribution, and also the exact way it was made, should be reflected in that statement. Better than this year, we've never seen that before. Another possibility is for independent audit by the European Court of Auditors to take place. This should promote the comparability of the composition of Member States' contributions and thus create a more transparent Europe. How does the Minister view this improvement in the transparency of the EU's own resources stemming from national payments? Does he prefer route 1 through the EU Member State declaration, or route 2, through the supervision of the European Court of Auditors? This is the CDA's contribution: we think it is very important that the Union's payments and expenditure and its communication become more transparent ten times. That should have been discussed, and it must continue to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. My group chairman said the day before yesterday that the Netherlands is the blur of Europe. That was the Netherlands and with this own resources decision it remains so. This decision does not change anything. In fact, with this decision there are more flaps from us to Brussels. And yet this Prime Minister and Prime Minister Rutte, who is leading the way, are trying to tell us that they have negotiated hard and well. This is a pyrrus victory. Indeed, we have kept our discount, but on all other payments we will pay more. The Netherlands is and remains the largest net contributor to the European Union. Every Dutchman can pay €300 a year to Europe, while a Frenchman loses half. My first question to the Minister is therefore: what does he think of this outcome? The Netherlands returns on all fronts. We get less perception fees and less customs revenue. First, we were allowed to keep 25% of customs duties. That's now down to 20%. As a result, the Netherlands misses 80 million. What's that amount based on? If I do the math, I'll be up to 130 million in 2015. We need to pay more VAT. That is the result of the negotiations. We were allowed to pay 0.1% first and now it has become 0.15%. This means that EUR 140 million more from the Dutch taxpayer goes to Brussels. The only good news is that we keep the annual discount of EUR 1 billion. In the pieces I read that the lump sum discount was 605 million in 2004 prices. Today, this will be 695 million in 2011 prices. My question is how much is 605 million in 2011 prices. Are we moving forward or backwards now or is it exactly the same? The fact of these negotiations is that the Netherlands can pay 250 million more a year to Brussels, and we already paid out most of it. Instead of thanking you, last year we received a further levy of 1.1 billion from Brussels as a blow to the flames. It's never enough. The calculators of the CBS had calculated that our economy was 47 billion larger than it was previously assumed. So it wasn't 577 but 624 billion. As a result of this resource revision, we received a net tax of 642.7 million. That's not all. Between the lines you can read that with this own resources decision the new ESA 2010 method of calculation will also enter into force, which will once again push up the Dutch economy fictitiously, on paper, by 12 billion. This means that, in addition to the post-tax of 642 million that we received in December, we can expect a further post-tax based on the new ESA 2010 method of calculation. The Minister cannot wait to pay this additional levy, because he has already earmarked 300 million in the budget. Can the Minister indicate how much extra post-taxing on the basis of ESA 2010 can be expected? The year 2014 is a record for the Dutch contribution to Brussels. In 2014, the Netherlands transferred no less than 8.5 billion to Brussels. 8.5 billion in the middle of the crisis. While half of the Netherlands is on the brink of water, this cabinet is transferring 8.5 billion. That is more than €500 per Dutchman. Saying yes to this own resources decision means paying 80 million more in import duties, paying 140 million more in VAT and paying 300 million more as a result of ESA 2010. And then there is the post-tax, but the minister has already paid it. The Netherlands was already the largest, but with this own resources decision it becomes an even bigger net contributor to this European nightmare. The PVV will never agree to this; that should be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-4.u3	Madam President. The adoption of the present own resources decision is the culmination of a long negotiation process on the Multiannual Financial Framework, in which the Netherlands finally managed to consolidate a reduction of EUR 1 billion, which we already had, for the next seven years. As far as we are concerned, the questions raised by the VVD Group in the report have been adequately answered. I would like to thank the Minister for this, in particular for the commitment that the Netherlands will continue to make its efforts, during this period and during next year's presidency, in order to make budgetary systems and payments more transparent and predictable. I would also like to thank him in particular for the answer in which the cabinet rejects a system of European taxes. Of course, the VVD also has wishes for the future, but they are not part of the decision that is now before us. In the first place, the Minister knows our wish, which is, moreover, universally accepted, for control and accountability with the help of the Member State declaration. Unfortunately, we do not yet find many countries on our side, but this is essential for the European Union. In addition, the VVD Group sees that there are still payments outside the Multiannual Financial Framework, for example to the European Development Fund. In future negotiations, and perhaps in the evaluation process, we would welcome a single transparent system in which all payments will find their place, and therefore no more payments will be organised outside the present own resources decision. However, I am aware that this was not part of these negotiations. That is why we will have to take that as a real commitment next time. The VVD can therefore accept the present decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-4.u4	This brings to an end the first term of office. The Minister has requested a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the own resources decision. That is a relatively simple decision that the Netherlands must ratify. It gives the Netherlands a discount on the payments of about 1 billion. Some questions have been asked about this and a number of other issues have been raised on this subject. I'll deal with it as soon as I can. Mr Van Dijck asked for the total net Dutch position under the own resources decision. The Netherlands is a net contributor. Mr Van Dijck says that the Netherlands is the largest net contributor, but that is considered differently; at best it is disputed. In any case, the European Commission does not agree with that statement, since it states that the European Union's own resources should not be included in the Dutch payments. Customs duties, for example, are the European Union's own resources. You can argue about this, but at least the Netherlands is a net contributor. That is one thing that is certain, and rightly so. Richer countries pay more, and this is done in particular on the basis of the GNI key. In terms of net position, we are in approximately the same group as Denmark, Sweden, Germany, the United Kingdom and Austria. It is also asked whether the discounts on the Dutch payments are retained, because the discount seems to have been reduced. The discounts on the Dutch payments are retained in the new own resources decision. The lump sum discount is on average 728 million euros per year. In addition, the Netherlands has stipulated a reduced rate of payment for the VAT payment. This has become 0.15% compared to 0.3% so far. These two together provide an average discount of EUR 1.1 billion per year. Those are the numbers. These were actually the only questions about the own resources decision. Now I come to the question of post-taxation. Mr Van Dijck has asked whether we can expect an additional post-tax. We have talked about this on several occasions, because this post-taxation is in the throat of all of us. I understand that we need to come back to that a few more times.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-4.u6	The Minister now goes into the post-tax, but I had another question about the own resources decision itself. The Minister makes it sound like he negotiated well. Okay, we kept our discount, but that's the least of it. Does the Minister not think that the Netherlands should have paid a little less for the next seven years, given our country's large payment position? After all, we are going to pay more now. The point I made in the first term is that we are going to pay more than in the last seven years. Does the Minister consider that a good negotiation result?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-4.u7	The result of the negotiations is to be congratulated on the Prime Minister and on the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because they have conducted the negotiations for the Netherlands. Our commitment was at least to maintain the 1 billion discount, and we succeeded in doing so. Of course, Mr Van Dijck of the PVV believes that there should be no contribution to Europe. That is a very different position, which the Dutch cabinet does not share. We have great interests in Europe, in economic and political terms, and we are part of the European Union. And yes, there is paid on the basis of prosperity levels. That's what the cabinet and I think can be defended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-4.u8	Defendable or not, what matters is that after the negotiations you are outside and have given away the perception fee for 5% and will pay more VAT compared to the last seven years. Was the cabinet ambitious enough? It only wanted to maintain the discount on the lumpsum and did not bet on less payments. After all, we are going to pay more in the next seven years than in the last seven years. Surely this minister cannot call that a good negotiation result?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-4.u9	The European budget is evolving. It's rising, too. As Mr Van Dijck knows, the Netherlands is trying to slow down this increase, but it is rising. That is part of the explanation of the increase in payments from all Member States. A new key has been created: post-taxation. We shall come back to that in a moment. In addition, a new key has been created based on methodological changes. As a result, the Netherlands is relatively prosperous than other countries. This has also led to a higher level of payments. You can find anything about these developments, but they were separate from these negotiations on the own resources decision. These negotiations on the own resources decision have been successful for the Netherlands. We had a clear negotiating strategy: at least the maintenance of 1 billion, and we retain 1.1 billion. On parts we have indeed turned in. On many smaller amounts we have slightly reduced the perception costs were called "but on the whole we have achieved a good result. I will continue with the post-levy. I shall begin with a recurring debate on transparency between Mr Omtzigt and the cabinet. This debate raises a fundamental point on which perhaps a debate should be held with the Foreign Minister, namely how our foreign posts should function in the light of transparency. In this case, this concerns in particular the Permanent Representation in Brussels. Mr Omtzigt repeatedly calls for the publication of documents exchanged between countries or between the Permanent Representation, our embassy in Brussels, and the European Commission. The Dutch cabinet is indeed very reluctant. The Dutch diplomats in Brussels fight every day for the Dutch interest and they serve the Dutch interest and this is not in the interest of constantly revealing all the e-mail exchanges, contacts and correspondence between our diplomatic post in Brussels and the Commission. Mr Omtzigt has a different view of this, but this is the vision of the cabinet. If Mr Omtzig wants to open this up in order to change the position of Parliament, he must hold this debate with the Foreign Minister, who is primarily responsible for it. Another discussion concerns the WOB procedure. For this, the cabinet has firm guidelines. The answer indeed refers to case law on what we do and do not want to make public. We have shared this view with the Commission from a Dutch perspective. The Commission has its own view on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-4.u10	Do I now understand that the Minister of Finance equates diplomatic contacts with other countries with the contacts that the Dutch Government has with the European Commission? Do I understand correctly that he believes that e-mail and correspondence with the European Commission should be confidential at all times, while we share great national interests in Brussels? The House of Representatives must check how the Dutch Government does this, but it must not have access to correspondence and e-mail exchanges with the European Commission which could cost hundreds of millions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-4.u11	Mr Omtzigt's underlying assumption is that we have failed and that this has cost us hundreds of millions. That is, of course, not true. That may also be the problem I have politically with this. Mr Omtzigt may have a lot of criticism of the system of revision of sources, methodological changes or the functioning of Eurostat on which Mr Omtzigt raises critical questions, but the system as such implies that GNIs are reviewed every now and then and a new key is created. This leads to a distribution of payments between Member States. This system has been in place for years, and it's like a house. You can then ask critical questions, but the suggestion is too quick for me that something went wrong, because that new system led to a new key and the Netherlands had to pay after. I am not going to go along with that, but that is a political view. I repeat that on the actual question of whether the Chamber may have access to diplomatic movements, a debate must be held with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I cannot deviate from these fixed guidelines on my own. The Prime Minister has often been involved in discussions with Mr Omtzigt. We do not believe that this is in the interests of the Netherlands, even in relation to other Member States. We discussed a report by an official committee in Brussels with a representative of the PV. Mr Omtzigt wants to see that report. That report also lists the views of other countries. It is not the intention of Mr Omtzigt's band to make diplomatic movements public. We are informed by our diplomatic post in Brussels about what is happening in Brussels, what other countries say and so on. It would really damage our position in Brussels. And that's all that matters to me in the end. I want us and our diplomats to be able to do the work in Brussels as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-4.u12	I have a supplementary question. We disagree on whether this was a good deal or not...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-4.u13	It wasn't a deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-4.u14	... a proper procedure, and whether or not we were informed in good time. I won't use the word "deal." I get that. The Minister can take that cold out of the sky by making these matters public. From the answers to the parliamentary questions, I get the clear impression that the European Commission would have been prepared to release the documents without the Dutch intervention and without the Dutch pressure to point out at least six exceptions and to think of all the reasons why the European Commission did not have to make them public. The Netherlands has urged the European Commission to do everything in its power not to make the documents public, because the Netherlands did not agree. Is that right? And is it true that the Minister personally interfered with that? Is it true, then, that the European Commission would have made the documents public if the Netherlands had not intervened and said: we are fine with that? And did the Minister personally commit himself to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-4.u15	In such a request, the Commission always asks those involved what they think. In this case it was a correspondence with Dutch diplomats in Brussels, so she asked the Netherlands how it would feel about that and how it would weigh it. We have therefore informed the Commission of our own arguments, on the basis of our WOB procedures and the criteria for them. I don't know if that was associated with my signature, but at least I'm responsible for it. If Mr Omtzigt disagrees, he must be with me. Whether I've personally interfered or not, doesn't matter. We have therefore sent it to the Commission. It weighed that and made a judgment on it. It has made some of the things public and not some of them, heard our views and I thought Eurostat too, because I thought the Commission asked other stakeholders what they thought. Anyway, that's about the WOB side of the case. The other side is whether the Chamber may have those documents, or whether they should be made public at its request. I say of this: let us have the debate on how we deal with diplomatic matters once more with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. There is a lot of exchange between posts and, above all, between our posts and The Hague. To what extent would it harm serving our interests abroad if we had to make all this public? In any case, I cannot deviate from the permanent cabinet line today. Let me now turn to the content of the decision on post-tax. Mr Van Dijck asked if there would be an additional post-tax due to the changed methodology, namely ESA 2010. That's not true. The post-tax had to do with the resource revision. We knew from the ESA system that it would change. For that we had structurally reserved 300 million. That turns out to be "fall." I put that in quotes. We've been able to reduce that series to 200 million that it costs us extra. This concerns ESA and we have done so since 2014. The payment for 2014 has not yet been made. So we still have to pay after, but only in 2014. This is different from the post-tax, which goes back much longer; this was due to the revision of the sources. That's the answer to that question. Mr Omtzigt asked about the European Court of Auditors' report, about the critical remark made by the Court of Auditors on Eurostat and about what happened afterwards. In the Council conclusions of June 2014, we discussed that report. The Council welcomed the inclusion of the recommendations in the report, partly by the Commission. Mr Omtzigt asked about the state of play. I will look into this, both at the Court of Auditors and at Eurostat and the Commission. I suggest that I send a letter to inform the Chamber about the further implementation. We certainly take it seriously, so it is quite right that attention should be paid to it. Then Mr Omtzig recalled that the Commission itself would look at how this post-tax was created and would return to it. I have not yet heard the Commission's conclusion on this. I am as alert as Mr Omtzigt. Discussions are now taking place at official level. Commissioner Georgieva, the Budget Commissioner, will have to come back to the Council with proposals. This is not so much a question of resource revision, which will continue to take place in the future, but rather of the scale, surprise and negative surprise for a number of Member States, which we all believe should not happen in this way anymore. I shall return to the Chamber as soon as the Commission itself has drawn its own conclusions on this matter. Then I'll tell you if I'm satisfied with that. Mr Omtzigt also asked about the problems of the pension system for EU officials. That's a pay-as-you-go system. I am not free to worry about this either, because with this system, the cost of pensions is charged annually to the budget. The problem will increase as the civil service, especially the retired part, increases and the civil service becomes older. As we pointed out in response to previous parliamentary questions, including this own resources decision, a new Eurostat report on the EU's pension issue will be presented at the end of 2015. At present, it amounts to around 1.5 billion a year. The Eurostat report is expected to contain forecasts of future amounts. At the moment, I cannot answer directly the question of whether this report will be made public. I am very much in favour of disclosure of Eurostat reports. I'll check this out and insist if necessary. Mr Omtzig asked whether we could convert it actuarially into a Dutch foot et cetera. That will not happen and I will not free up any capacity for it, if he forgives me, because I think it goes too far to do so from the Netherlands. However, we will be alert to the report and insist that it be made public. Then we can also inform the Chamber about this. Mr Omtzigt then asked about the national declaration and the inclusion of the payments made by the Netherlands. We have talked about this before. Other groups have also asked for it in the past. The question remains: what is its added value? The European Court of Auditors has been giving a positive opinion on the payments for years. I have no indication that there are any major risks. We have a closing, functioning monitoring chain. The GNI, the own resources component, is monitored by Eurostat. There is a close national accountability line. It runs through the Tax Administration's annual report and EZ's annual report on agricultural levies. The ADR, the accounting service of the Empire, controls these payments. So I am genuinely looking for its added value. I am not going to oppose it in principle either. It does mean extra work, because it will have to be accompanied by additional audit reports. I know the CDA as a party that is very much in favour of a small government and wants to cut down on the departments and the officials. I would ask Mr Omtzigt to provide cover for this additional work. I'm saying this seriously. It happens quite often that the Chamber says that the Empire should be smaller and that the departments should shrink, but I also see almost daily motions which mean that we need to use more human power. That's my opinion of that discussion. I believe that I have answered all the questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-4.u16	I would like to thank the Minister for his first answer. I see that Members need a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-4.u17	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers in the first term. There remains a fundamental difference of opinion as to whether the European Union is a foreign state. That's not her. We deal with all kinds of issues intergovernmentally, including with the Commission. If they are covered by diplomatic secrecy, which is not always the case in other countries, then we are failing ourselves. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment that we will have a feedback on how Eurostat's improvement proposals are being taken up and on the Commission's report on post-taxation, which I hope will be made public. We will also be told more about the pension system. It was a bit teasing when I asked for the costs of Dutch supervision to be calculated, because that Dutch supervision was adapted at the request of the European Union, which did not consider our own rules prudent enough. If you see how far one is going with one's own civil servants' pensions from the prudence that the Netherlands, and certainly this minister, takes into account, there is still a big gap between them. I'm filing two motions that won't surprise the Minister. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that it is unclear how the different payments made by Member States are composed;]] [[calls on the Government, therefore, to include the composition of the Dutch contribution to the EU in the Member State declaration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that it is necessary to clarify the implementation of the European Union's post-tax in 2014;]] [[Calls on the Government to make public correspondence between the Netherlands and the European Union on the post-taxation;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the European Commission that it withdraws its objections to disclosure, except where personal data such as 06 numbers and e-mail addresses are concerned,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34023-6]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34023-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-4.u18	As far as we are concerned, this last motion is really crucial for democratic control. If we do not know how this post-tax was achieved, then at the moment that is the problem, then we cannot exercise our democratic control. We do so even after payment has been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-4.u19	I note that none of the other Members needs a second term. The Minister says he can answer right away, but he does not yet have the text of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-4.u20	I know them by heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-4.u21	If that is the case, you will be given the floor immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-4.u22	It was a bit of a bluff, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-4.u23	So you should never do that, but I see that you can start anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-4.u24	Mr. Chairman. The first motion concerns the inclusion of payments in the national declaration. I have argued that this has no added value. Our role as a national government in the payments and spending is really another. The payments are simply fixed along a fixed line. There's no influence between us. GNI is not determined by us, but by the statistical offices headed by Eurostat. On the basis of the GNI key, this leads to a payment. The same applies to customs duties etc. Our role and responsibility in this are really different. That also makes it illogical to include it in the national declaration, in which I am politically responsible... my signature underneath............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. It is not a matter of principle for me to oppose it, because we are doing nothing wrong here, but it really means extra work. In this election campaign, too, it was a major issue that could be cut more on civil servants and departments. This could be a subject of which the Chamber says: perhaps the added value is not large enough. It's up to the room. I propose the motion for a resolution on the publication of correspondence between the European Commission and our diplomatic post in Brussels. I would like to take this issue with me to tomorrow's Council of Ministers and discuss it there, because I do not want this to become a source of mistrust between the Chamber and the Cabinet. I sincerely believe that we have done a good job and that there has not been anything inaudible, but the simple fact that we do not make it available is sufficient for Mr Omtzigt to say that there is a smell in this. Yeah, those kind of words are almost literally used. So I'm gonna talk about it. I hope that the Minister... Oh no, the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister will not be there tomorrow in connection with the European Council. So I will discuss this a week later in the Council of Ministers. Perhaps Mr Omtzigt will be able to hold the motion. We will then respond again in writing. I do not want to give the impression that the cabinet is changing its position, but I think this should be a government-wide decision. It is about diplomatic traffic and the status of our traffic with the Commission, which Mr Omtzig says is not a diplomatic traffic. I've got a different picture of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-4.u25	I'll hold the motion until that letter arrives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-4.u26	At the request of Mr Omtzigt, I propose his motion (34023, No. 7) to be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-4.u27	I would like to thank the Minister for his second answer. The vote on the motion and the legislative proposal will take place next Tuesday.
