ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, Minister Schippers was with Radar. Radar showed a report that was presented to the Minister with as many as a thousand responses on non-refunding of plastic surgery. What exactly is plastic surgery? Are we talking about cosmetic surgery, Robert Schoemacher's botox ladies? Or are we talking about surgery that doesn't make people prettier, but makes people better? If she says it's about making people better, shouldn't we say that this plastic surgery is necessary surgery that belongs in the basic package? Look at Manon, a 15-year-old teenager with a congenital breast disorder. Then who is thinking of saying that this is not part of the package? Look at the old Gretel, with eyelids falling over the eyes so she can't see properly. Who is going to say that we are not helping this woman, that is not part of the package, that is all you are paying for? You know, through the chairman to the minister, who came up with that? That was Minister Hoogervorst ten years ago with the support of a majority of the Chamber. Then it was said: plastic surgery is about cosmetic surgery, it is about botox ladies who, if necessary, have to be helped at the expense of the taxpayer. No, Madam Secretary, that's not the point. It's not about Robert Schoemacher's botox ladies; they have to pay for it themselves. The point is that all the necessary surgery to make people not prettier but better belongs in the package. Does the Minister recognise that a mistake was made at the time and that it needs to be repaired now? The question is, how is she going to fix that mistake?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I have also received these questions in writing and this month I have answered them in full in writing, with six pages. Mr Van Gerven can therefore read the answers to all his questions. In 2005, that decision was taken under the Health Fund Act, because it was found that the border between cosmetic and beautification and what was medically necessary was not drawn in practice and that it was very difficult to determine exactly where that border was. You saw that in practice, almost everything on basic insurance was declared. As a result, there have also been things from the basic package that you can reasonably come to the conclusion that they should perhaps have a place in the basic package. I have answered these written questions in detail, including Mr Van Gerven's last question. It is different if the plastic surgeons, together with the client organisations, can present me with a directive or a proposal in which the dividing line can be clearly drawn and which does not make it very attractive to surgeons, of course, to continue to push the boundaries of use, but with which you really clearly agree on what is medically necessary, so what we are going to do and what we are going to do and what we are going to compensate for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u3	Does the Minister recognise that in 2005 the mistake was simply made that surgical care needed to make people not prettier but better was unjustly removed from the package, with the reason that it would be cosmetic surgery? The minister says again, from some sort of mistrust, that a lot of surgery that has been granted would be cosmetic. That's just a minority. But let us look ahead, because the Minister did say a little more last night than in her replies to the SP a few days ago or a few weeks ago. She's the one who left the door open. This isn't just the responsibility of the surgeons or the patients, is it? Surely it is the political, parliamentary and minister's responsibility to ensure that there is a decent basic package? Is the Minister prepared to come up with a plan for the package treatment, the package discussion next June, including financial coverage to bring back surgery that is necessary to make people not prettier but better into the package?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u4	Of the plastic surgery, 85% is just in the package. It was that 15% that you saw was difficult to draw and was stretched further and further. It wasn't just a decision, either. This decision has been dealt with and discussed very extensively here in Parliament. The decision that that part would no longer be part of the package was actually taken by politics. That is not mistrust; this was done on the basis of the experience that more and more was declared at the expense of all of us. In reply to Mr Van Gerven's questions, in particular to Question 15, I indicated that I would like to get rid of a package that contains or does not contain something, as I said earlier in connection with the main line agreements. I would like much more to go to a package where there is something in it for the people who really need it according to guidelines and criteria that determine the medical necessity; then those people get it. For the others, for whom this means little and for whom it is not necessary, that means is not in the package. That's balanced. That is what we have tried with the antacids: for one are antacids in the package and not for the other. I would like to have that nuanced approach much more in the package, including with regard to this 15% plastic surgery. If something is obviously medically necessary for people to be able to function and if we consider that to be something we have to bring together, it must be in the package for those people. But then I have to be able to draw a line. I can't do that politically. It is up to the profession itself to commit to that. He's supposed to give me a hand with that. The profession must prevent what happened in 2005 and the years before, namely that there has always been a huge increase in what has been declared.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u5	The guidelines are here. The specialists know when something medically necessary is and when not. It is now a question of implementation. Is the Minister prepared to do what I asked, namely to come forward with a proposal so that we can deal with it in the package debate in June? Is the Minister also prepared to do something for the 1,000 harrowing cases with which Radar arrived? After all, it is known: once it is in the news, the insurers are going to help, like some kind of god on earth. That's not supposed to happen, is it? It can't depend on the arbitrariness of insurers, can it? Surely it must be a decent right that we guarantee? I suggest that the Minister come forward with a proposal so that we can talk about it. The right should apply not only to those who appear on TV, but to those who need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u6	What I said in the programme is that an insurer may allow something on the basis of coulance. Where you say it's medically necessary, I don't think a patient should be dependent on an insurer's coulance. Then he must be able to assert his right. However, this requires objective criteria. That also requires that you can objectively establish that something is necessary. Suppose there's no breast growth in a girl or breast growth on just one breast. Then maybe there's a medical need. What if there's a little breast growth? Is there also a medical need? Suppose there's a less than average breast growth. Is there a medical need? We have seen that things have really gone wrong there in the past. We're just trying to make sure things don't go wrong again. Also when beautifying eyelids you saw that, before it got out of the package, there was slowly but surely a huge increase, that people did so at the expense of the package. That's not what the package's for. That is why I have made an appeal, a very urgent appeal, to the doctors: give me guidelines, give me objective criteria and give me control mechanisms that ensure that this is applied in such a way that it is financially sustainable, but that the people who depend on it are reimbursed. That's the call I made. I hope that they will soon come to me with good plans so that we can put them into effect. This is where the ball is with the sector. Where the sector has gone wrong before, it will now have to give me the assurance that it can be done well now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-31-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you for your answers, Minister. You may stay for a while, because the next question is also put to you as Minister of Health by Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union.
