ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last week was the Secretary of State in Limburg. Like other Dutch people, Limburgers do their best to make ends meet. That's not a problem for very rich people. They are getting richer and richer, as we read in the newspaper this morning. Last year's richest 1% gained 23 billion in capital, while the lowest 10%, the lowest income, had an average debt of €57,000. More and more elderly people and workers who are entitled to benefits can no longer live. Benefits are too low, wages are too low, care and rents are becoming increasingly priceless as a result of the market, mortgages are not always paid and hundreds of thousands of Dutch build up debts. Unfortunately, it becomes clear that more and more Dutch people are becoming dependent on the food bank for their food. So when I saw the Secretary of State on a Limburg television station last week talking about the food banks, I thought: now she comes up with the plan. Now the Secretary of State comes up with that plan for the other side of the Netherlands and she's going to tell us how she's going to make food banks in the Netherlands redundant. Scared me and embarrassed me. This is what the Secretary of State said, among other things: "When the food banks came into being, I thought, "Oh, boy, should we want to?', but gradually we see that food banks ensure that the food ends well." Of course, the latter is true, but does the Secretary of State really think that we need more poverty to combat food waste? Does she really think that we need more food banks because that food gets so good? I have one question for the Secretary of State: is the Secretary of State going to make the food banks redundant, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mrs Karabulut for her question. I gave an interview for Limburg television and I tried to support the food banking action of not only Limburg television but all regional broadcasters. Of course, I think and I believe that all the Members of this Chamber believe that it is very important that all Dutch people can get away with the income benefits they have and that they do not build up debts. We have had a major economic crisis and it shows that many Dutch people cannot go to hell. Fortunately, we have a good safety net in our country, and that's called welfare. Of course, this assistance is not an immediate blow. It's a safety net from which people can live their lives. I think it's a great thing that people help each other, too. That's really not from yesterday on today, because it's always been. There are many initiatives by civil society institutions and voluntary organisations that help each other if things are not so good. One of these institutions is the food bank. So the knife cuts on many sides. Mrs Karabulut asks me if I would like the food bank not to exist. Of course, I wish all people had a wallet to pay their debts, but now that the food bank does exist, the knife cuts on many sides. People are getting food, which might not be used otherwise and there are many volunteers active.......................................................................................................................................................................... From the food banks, I think that is a very good thing, but also to other relief agencies, including the government, so that public authorities and social institutions can strengthen each other. I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u3	My question hasn't been answered. That's why I'll repeat it. Does the Secretary of State, who is responsible for combating poverty and is responsible for reducing people's debt rather than increasing debt, want to make food banks redundant, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u4	I believe that in my first answer I made it very clear that I think it is a good idea for social institutions to work in close cooperation with the government. I'm doing the same thing. Together with Humanitas, the churches, SchuldHelpMaatje, Resto VanHarte and all kinds of funds, such as the Youth Sports Fund, the Youth Culture Fund and Learning Money, we ensure that people are helped. That's what we do with community money. We all do. We're just gonna keep doing that. Moreover, the cabinet has provided structural funds of 100 million for the fight against poverty. We are also helping the food banks with these resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u5	Really, I've gotten a little used to it over the years, but as furry as this Secretary of State makes it, I haven't seen it yet. She says the safety net, the assistance, is enough. I would remind the Secretary of State that three quarters of the beneficiaries live in poverty. 60% of children from these families live in poverty. They depend on the food bank. I can see why the Secretary of State does not want to say here that she wants to make food banks redundant, because she is responsible, by the policy of this cabinet, for increasing the number of food banks. She is blind and deaf to the misery and growing need of the population. Nevertheless, I would like to make a final attempt to address her conscience. The Secretary of State doesn't have to take the right-wing VVD rot policy. The Secretary of State can fight for the sick, the disabled, the employed, the beneficiaries of benefits; it can fight for the reduction of rent, the elimination of its own risk, a national health insurance fund and investment in employment. Social policy and poverty helping the Netherlands are possible in a rich country like the Netherlands by fighting together for it. What's the Secretary of State gonna do? Is she going to do something about this, or is she going to embrace and perpetuate the food banks? If that's not the case, I want to know the following about her. At the moment, 100,000 people are forced to use the food bank. How many are there in a year and a half?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u6	This secretary of state has gone into politics to help people who have not been particularly affected. I'm busy with that. I do that in a lot of ways. Not for nothing did I just say that there is 100 million available for projects that we carry out together with municipalities. Municipalities are very close to people active. They make people stand up again. I am pleased that municipalities do so in close consultation with social institutions. I do that myself, and I just keep doing that. There's no misunderstanding at all. Every person living in poverty is one too many. We keep fighting to get everyone out of poverty.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u7	100 million, with a cut-off package of more than 50 billion. Just like the Secretary of State last time, I call on everyone to tell the story that "they're not so good." Those were the words of the Secretary of State. I call on everyone to e-mail those stories to the SP and fight with us for social policy. We should not have it from this Secretary of State because it is nailed to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u8	I'm very sorry that food banks turn out to be necessary. However, as long as they are needed, it is very nice that people in the Netherlands are trying to help each other. A more structural solution lies in making our poverty and debt policies more effective. To this end, I have tabled a motion which has been embraced by the Secretary of State and also supported by the Chamber. I call on the Secretary of State to implement this motion as soon as possible, because our debt and poverty policies must be much more effective. My specific question for the short term is how food banks are supported by the Secretary of State to do their job.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u9	Of the 100 million I spoke of, we sent twice €350,000 to the food banks. A new subsidy scheme for 2016 and 2017 has been agreed. The food banks will also be able to sign in there. We are updating the existing toolkit for food banks, with which they can properly complete the cooperation with municipalities. When people go to the food bank, it turns out that people from the food bank are well guided to debt relief and otherwise. That's fine, too. I have also heard from the food banks that, fortunately, people do not have to knock on the food bank's door for the entire period, but that after a reasonable time they can indeed live their lives independently again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u10	The Secretary of State is also very busy simplifying the determination of the duty-free foot by the Tax Administration. That is very good because it will hopefully reduce the number of people below that limit in the future. My colleague Mrs Karabulut from the SP Group has asked for the minimum standard of living to be reviewed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u11	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u12	How far is the Secretary of State and can we be briefed on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u13	I am busy with all the parties who have to work with the unhindered foot in order to simplify the unhindered foot. I hope to be able to show the Chamber the results within a few weeks. Then we can look at how we can anchor the free foot in the regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u14	Does the Secretary of State agree with me that we have a nice social security system in the Netherlands, but that the government cannot solve all the problems, as the SP Group thinks, and that the existence of food banks is therefore a good sign of a resilient society in which people help each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-5.u15	It is good that both Mr Moors and Mrs Karabulut are speaking this afternoon. This shows that the whole spectrum is at stake. Of course, the government has an incredibly important role to play in the fight against poverty and debt relief, including in prevention. We must prevent people from falling into debt. That's what we do here with all of us. But it is good practice that, in addition to the fact that the government is working on the team, social bodies are also involved. We support this with all of us, including with community money. I think you should embrace the balance between the SP and the VVD, and so do I.
