ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Also people who live next to an industrial park should be able to go to sleep in the evening, but that becomes difficult when there is a large alarm every year and cars with high speed flashing lights drive by. Last Tuesday it was again on the business site at Moerdijk. This time, fortunately, it was not Chemie-Pack, but the recycling company REMONDIS Argentia provided a huge black smoke plume that forced neighbors to close windows and doors again. It wasn't the first time it went wrong there. It went wrong in 2013, it went wrong in 2014 and unfortunately it went wrong again in 2015. What really bothered me was that after this disaster, just after the fire, we were able to read that there have already been a number of explicit warnings about explosion hazards at that company. A report requested by Omroep Brabant shows that the inspection knew that there could be a major accident at any time. It was known. Then how come this company was allowed to continue? There was no knowledge of one instance; there were a lot of information: the Inspection SZW, the waterboard and also the security region. They all knew about it. I therefore have a number of questions for the Minister. How is it that one company burns down three times in three years? That sounds like a very simple question, but all our regulations, our supervision and our licensing should aim at not setting one company on fire every year. In the meantime, what measures does the company have to cover the risks? Did it take those measures? Is that what was taken care of? And if the company didn't do that, why didn't it shut down? There were three bodies involved, but it seems that together we have not been able to come to an effective approach. Did we get that organized properly? With Chemie-Pack still very fresh in the memory, we still have to discuss the report here.I ask: did the ILT, the Inspection Environment and Transport, also know about this risk? I don't run into her anywhere in the rows, even though it's a risk area. If not, why is that not the case? We have said before in debates in the Chamber that we must get a price again. If you go wrong over and over again, the penalty must be stricter. Is that what's been done here? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. These are justified questions from Mrs Van Veldhoven, because monitoring such installations is very important for everyone, especially for people who live near them. This is a Brzo installation spread over three locations: Jupiterweg 2, Middenweg 7 and Middenweg 20. The report is correct that previous inspections have revealed infringements. They've had consequences, too. For example, on Jupiterweg 2, the plant was shut down for a week until measures had been taken to allow the installation to be put back into operation. On Midway 7, a desalination reactor was permanently shut down. It was still at the time of the fire of 12 May. in the same building but at another installation. The question of what exactly happened there and how there could have been three incidents at that one company, which is spread over three locations, is the subject of research. The state's attorney's office and the inspections are looking into it. The results will have to wait, but I share with Mrs Van Veldhoven how important it is to find out what happened. What happened in the meantime? In the case of hazardous installations, measures, interventions have been imposed, which have also been complied with. In addition, the risk of explosion must be re-examined before 1 July. On the basis of the research currently taking place, it is necessary to examine whether further interventions are needed in this company. This is under the supervision of the Environment Service, which again falls under the administrative responsibility of the province. On this subject, the Chamber has an exchange of views with the Secretary of State. This has been discussed extensively over the past year, as will be done soon. I think that next month there might be a general consultation on external safety, perhaps more information is already available about the more general question of how the supervision of such hazardous installations is organised in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u3	I would like to thank the Minister very much for admitting that things have really gone wrong here. It's a good thing the DA's office is looking at this particular case. But what worries me, of course, is that this particular case will only be looked at after three times as big a fire. Although we will discuss external security with the Secretary of State about all the technicalities of the Brzo in the AO, my question has not been answered whether we have organized it well in the Netherlands if we let it go when a company receives so often a warning and is known that there is an acute danger of a major accident and we only look at what went wrong afterwards. That cannot be the way to deal with this, since we are putting the safety of the workers at risk. That cannot be the way the Minister wants to deal with this. That is why I asked whether we have organised things properly and whether there is sufficient alert through the various inspections to the national level. The Brzo is directly subject to the national inspection. Did we organize that well? Does the Minister also want to look at this point and is he prepared to discuss with the Secretary of State for the Environment that the risk of major accidents is made transparent? Put it in a register when such a notification is made. Also enter in the register when the company has taken the measures. People who live nearby can then see if there are problems with companies. Businesses can also assess each other well in this way and encourage each other to put safety first. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u4	Since Mrs Van Veldhoven's question had two conclusions, I think it would be good to recall that the previous two inspections detected infringements and that it was not only a warning but also intervention. The two plants have been shut down. The inspections and the Environment Service don't just do that. They did that precisely because there were violations. That was six violations, including an event in risk category 1: danger to employees or environment. That is why the installation on the Jupiterweg has also been shut down. Measures have been taken by the company and they have been reviewed. Then the shutdown was lifted. The chemical desalination reactor on the Midway 7 has been shut down to this day. After the fire of 12 May, that reactor on the Middenweg 7 is obviously not in operation now. It is good to note that there has also been action in connection with this offence. The questions that remain are next. What was the nature of the fire of May 12th? Was there any connection to previous infractions? Is there a link to the violations that emerged earlier from the inspections? Have any violations been overlooked? Neither Mrs van Veldhoven nor I can answer these questions now. They are the subject of research. For this reason, it is also too far-reaching to draw conclusions on how it has operated. There's been a performance. Risks and violations have been identified. That has led to enforcement. After that, this fire broke out. Of course, this is going to get to the bottom of it. On the basis of the conclusions we can see whether mistakes have been made by the inspections or the environmental service and whether the company has not complied with the agreed measures. Of course, in reply to Mrs Van Veldhoven's last question, I am prepared to make further arrangements with the Secretary of State on this major issue at any time. However, I believe that it is in the interests of the Chamber and of security in that region to await the results of the research. Then we know what was going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u5	That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u6	I welcome the Minister's intention, but I think he's getting rid of it too easily. Twice, measures have been taken, but they have proved insufficient to prevent a third disaster. Something's not going well. Then the recidivism has no price. We do not have any kind of transparency that forces these companies to prevent them from getting the "category 1" labels. How are we gonna stop us from having to do another investigation? I agree with the Minister that we should do that. But how are we going to prevent that? I believe that transparency could play an important role in this. I would like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u7	A brief response, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u8	Mrs Van Veldhoven is talking about a new disaster. A fire broke out elsewhere in the building on Midway 7, not in the reactor that was shut down by order of the environmental service and the inspection. There could be a connection to that previous offense. Honestly, I understand that association very well. However, we must be sure of that before we draw far-reaching conclusions. If it turns out that it did not go well, then it could lead to further, more stringent transparency requirements. I repeat my willingness to do so, but let us take a look at what happened in practice, which caused the fire.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u9	I remember well when I was just sitting in the Chamber that the then Minister Opstelten, who is now Mr Opstelten,...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u10	Then, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u11	Yeah, he was a gentleman back then. He said: this is a disaster of unprecedented magnitude. And: we must never have this again in the Netherlands. We've been about five years. There was a quickscan then and a list of companies that did not meet at least two points was drawn up, namely fire safety and Brzo safety. Then it was said: there has been a lot of improvement,...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u12	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u13	...so we don't need this transparency anymore. Should the Minister not now, after this fire, say: did we actually go wrong then by not continuing on the road of making known by name of companies that do not meet one of the five main safety criteria?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u14	Of course, a lot has happened since then. The Secretary of State, in close consultation with the Chamber, reviewed the entire chain of supervision of Brzo companies, companies with dangerous substances, and also discussed this with the Chamber. Soon, there will be a legislative change in final form in this house to ensure that we regulate this better, with a division of responsibility between the Empire and regional authorities and with the possibility of much stricter sanctions. I am therefore going too far to draw this kind of far-reaching conclusions on the basis of this fire. Although this fire is in the same area as at the time the disaster in the Moerdijk area, it is not yet possible to say what the link is with the nature of the company or other industrial companies. I very much agree with Mrs Van Tongeren that the seriousness of this type of fire, its effects on the environment and the risks of this type of business require the utmost care when it comes to organising its monitoring. However, this care also fits in with the fact that you first look at the cause of the fire and only then draw conclusions about what might need to be improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u15	Can the Minister assure me that at Brzo companies such as this company there are no inspection holidays and no announced inspections, but that the inspections are genuine inspections to check whether those companies meet all fire safety and Brzo requirements?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u16	This is about very serious inspections. Various services work together: the province, the environmental service, the ILT if necessary and the Inspection SZW. This can also be demonstrated by the fact that six infringements were detected during those two previous inspections, with far-reaching consequences for the holding. Shutting down the activities at two locations is not something you just do and what suits an inspection holiday or an announced visit. No, that's an inspection of violations, with consequences. Mrs Van Veldhoven rightly asks whether this has been sufficient and whether there is a link between previous incidents and this fire. I want to know as much as she does and as Mrs Van Tongeren does. If we have those answers, we will know more about whether more is needed in the supervision or that.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u17	Brzo companies work with strict safety and environmental requirements. It is amazing that mistakes have been made in this company over and over again and that another victim has been killed in this case. That's a victim too much. We need to look back and learn from this process. I am very curious to see what should be changed now, because that is not quite clear to me. We keep thinking about processes all the time. This file also affects the premises of Secretary of State Mansveld. I want to know exactly how, in this case, the process of authorisation, supervision and enforcement has gone through and what has gone wrong. I would also like to discuss this on the basis of a comprehensive letter in external security.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u18	Of course. I share the wish of several Members of Parliament to know what is happening and how this could have happened. It's not for nothing that the D.A. is investigating this case. The D.A. also wants to know what happened, who is responsible and whether there may be criminal offences. That's the nature of that investigation. I would like to say that in mid-June the Secretary of State for External Security will inform the Chamber by letter of what is known at that time. I don't know if the D.A.'s investigation will be completed by then. The state of play of that moment, including the questions raised here, will send the Secretary of State to the Chamber by letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-4.u19	Thank you for this commitment, for your answers to the questions asked and for coming to the Chamber.
