ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would like to welcome everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last year, the Chamber, and in particular the VVD Group, the then Secretary of State for Security and Justice, really made every effort to prevent Volkert van der G. from being released early. In the end, the early release proved inevitable, also through actions and judgments of the judge. There are then criteria, conditions linked to his early release, including not having contact with the media: a media ban. Who amazes me when I was confronted with reports last Sunday and later a broadcast of Brand Point, in which it seems to me at least as if one of those conditions has been violated: contact with the newspaper, contact with the media? From this point on, I have only one question to the Minister, to the successor of the Secretary of State for Security and Justice who had such a complicated debate here a year ago. What is this Minister of V and J going to do to organise the court to decide whether there is a violation of the conditions attached to Volkert van der G's early release and what consequences that would have for this figure?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. Let me say for the record that Van der G. committed a horrible crime. The murder of Pim Fortuyn was not only a murder of a politician, but also an attack on our rule of law and on our democracy. It caused a great deal of unrest in society at the time. As it turns out, it still does. It is right that Mr Van Oosten has asked me questions about Mr Van der G's remarks and whether or not he has violated the conditions imposed on him at the time of conditional release. The television broadcast of Brandpunt Reporter mentioned the photo published on 17 June 2014 in De Telegraaf. According to the information I received from the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Public Prosecutor's Office was informed in advance that the photo would be published. The Public Prosecutor's Office was informed by the lawyer of Van der G. by telephone the day before that a photograph of the person concerned was taken. The Public Prosecutor's Office then decided in substance whether there was an infringement of the media ban imposed. The Public Prosecutor then informed Van der G's lawyer that the Public Prosecutor's Office considered that there was no infringement of the media ban. It is of course of the utmost importance that Van der G. adheres to the conditions imposed on him by the Public Prosecutor's Office. For this purpose, the probation will be closely monitored. All possible risks, both for society and for Van der G., should be reduced as much as possible. In view of the statements made by Van der G., the Secretary of State has requested that the probation procedure be reviewed, in addition to the regular evaluation times already taking place, as to how and whether Van der G. complies with the conditions imposed on him. The D.A. will check if Van der G. violated the terms. Your Chamber will, of course, be informed of the judgment of the Public Prosecutor. This means that not only the issue will be looked at in June 2014, but that the entire action, including the statements made by Van der G. last Sunday and to which everyone who has looked at it has probably left a feeling, will be involved in the question that the Public Prosecutor's Office should primarily examine, namely whether or not he has violated his conditions. That is also stated in the letter sent to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u4	I'll be honest, because I think it's a complicated answer from the Minister. I have just read a press release from the Public Prosecutor's Office claiming to have authorised contact with the media, and now, according to his letter to the Chamber a few minutes ago, the Minister for Public Prosecution and Prosecution has re-examined the extent to which the media ban has been exceeded. I can do math, too. If I put that press release next to that letter, I do not know whether I can expect the outcome that the VVD also wanted last year, namely a maximum effort to get the judge to check whether these conditions are actually being violated. I would like to say that the Minister is using his own powers to organise it in such a way that, in the end, the judge can do the same. And then there's something else. We are talking about violating the conditions under which Van der G. was temporarily released, but the transmission of Brand Point and the articles on which I based my questions also showed something else. It can't be that aid is being abused in this country in a manner that was displayed by Van der G. He not only consciously lets his family live in another place, but also winds the probation to the finger by not fulfilling his job application obligation in any way but to get €900 in the month. I really cannot explain it and I assume that the Minister has put his colleague in the Social Affairs field to work. My final point concerns the harassment procedures. I hear Van der G say that he doesn't even want a job, because then he can't get any more additions because he's no longer entitled to legal aid. It may be remembered that I have debated many times in this Chamber with colleagues in order to make us stand up for legal aid. However, it will not happen that we are going to abuse that good money from legal aid because of such a Van der G. who only wants to fight the government against him and the single goal of serving himself by carrying out harassing procedures. I'd like to get a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u5	I have one minute for that and I will be happy to use it to answer these three questions. Let me say first of all that I, as Minister of Security and Justice, am aware of the competence given to me by Article 15i of our Code of Criminal Law. However, that means that I can only use this power when the usual steps have been taken. Reclassification The Netherlands conducts a research and thus looks much wider than just the aspect of the photo of June 14 and June 17 respectively. Next, the Public Prosecutor's Office is called upon to judge and then the Minister comes into play. At the moment, I cannot anticipate what I will do for the simple reason that I put pressure on the Public Prosecutor's Office to make a decision which I believe should be able to achieve in full independence. Secondly, as Mr van Oosten knows, it is not the Minister for Social Affairs who provides assistance but the municipality in which the person concerned resides. I assume that, given Mr Van der G's statements, the municipality will take a closer look at them. Perhaps my colleague from Social Affairs will have the opportunity to inform the municipality of how she deals with it. The final point is legal aid. That's a tricky point. I share Mr Van Oosten's concern about the use of legal aid, but the system gives everyone, including Mr Van der G., the right to use legal aid. As far as I am aware, there is currently no possibility of changing that. This is the system that we have chosen with each other and which we spend 500 million a year on. As a minister, I have an opinion on this, but it does not seem to be able to count on a majority of the States-General for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u6	I would like to make a final attempt with the last question that I would like to put to the Minister through you, Madam President: please, do not hesitate to do so in this Chamber, and I would also like to admit that, when it comes to putting your own powers directly under the law, which you can use, in order to do exactly as your predecessor did and as you yourself, as a Member of Parliament, to put the question to the judge a year ago and to have the judge give a ruling, even in the unlikely event that the Public Prosecutor will decide not to do so on his own initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u7	As I have indicated, I am very aware of the competence conferred on me by Article 15i. I will await the judgment of the Public Prosecutor in connection with the probation investigation and then inform the Chamber of any subsequent steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u8	Did I hear correctly that you promised that you would ask your colleague from SZW to inform the municipality about the situation and that you would inform the Chamber in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u9	I will ask the colleague from Social Zeken to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u10	The murder of Pim Fortuyn has struck a deep wound in our society and also in our parliament. The recent statements rip those wounds open again. I can follow the Minister in the formal-legal story, but apart from that, I ask him: will he continue to protect the Netherlands and our parliament from provocations by Van der G. and others, who are using opportunities to stick a long nose as it is expressed against the rule of law? Does the Minister intend to use all his options to prevent this and to protect us from this kind of provocative statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u11	It is a difficult question that Mr Van der Staaij asks, because my natural tendency is to answer yes to it. If that means, for example, that I should have taken part in the interim proceedings brought against the KRO in order not to allow the broadcast of Brandpoint Reporter to take place, I say that this goes too far. I do not think Mr Van der Staaij means that either. In this particular case, I think we have to note that it seems to be happening, and I say it very carefully, that the recordings that have been made that have made his statements have been made secretly, not with his consent. So maybe he didn't know those recordings were being made either. Mr Van der Staaij says he's sticking out a long nose, but it's not said, I'm saying it with caution that it was his intention to put that long nose out in public. I have taken good note of the remarks he has made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u12	Volkert van der Graaf is still a dangerous criminal, a potential recidivist. This minister has to do everything in his power to put that crook behind bars for six years. I don't see that in the Minister's answers. My question to the Minister is: is he prepared to use his designation power and put the Public Prosecutor's Office to work to go to court to reverse this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u13	I understand very well that Mr Bontes is asking the question that Mr Van Oosten has also asked. However, that does not change the answer. We have opted for a system in which parole is called into question. The Public Prosecutor's Office has an opinion on this and, ultimately, the Minister, as stated in Article 15i, has the possibility of making an application to the Public Prosecutor's Office or not, depending on the judgment of the Public Prosecutor's Office. That is the line I will follow; that is what we have chosen with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u14	I'm not waiting for the D.A.'s verdict. The Public Prosecutor's Office has failed to inform Mr. Teeven there he sits, the then Secretary of State, that they have agreed to contact the media. The minister should be on top of that right now and just get the D.A. to work. I'd like to get a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u15	I have taken good note of Mr Bontes' heart cry and I will involve him in my policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u16	It is no secret that my group also believes that the Minister should exercise his powers of designation. Everything shows again that all organisations did not really know what they were doing. What does the Minister write? The probation has been requested to make it clear to the D.A. once again whether Van der G. complies with the conditions. But the Public Prosecutor's Office has already announced with a press release that Volkert van der Graaf has not violated the conditions. Then the question to the Minister is: is this now a case of harm reduction? The second question, which lies in it, is: is this the Minister's response to Volkert van der Graaf's raised middle finger?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u17	I think it is a good thing that I do not go into what I personally or as minister of the statements he has made, precisely because it concerns an assessment of the probation. It is not just one aspect of June that is being looked at, now more than a year ago. It looks at the overall concept, including the statements made by Mr Van der G. in the broadcast. This gives a broad picture and a broad assessment, which can then be taken into account by the D.A. I really think that this is the best way to see what the reaction should be if Mr van der G. has violated his conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u18	I'm picking a different angle. For me, it's important who knew what at what time. I would like to ask the Minister to give us a factual account of what happened to those conditions. How is it that the Public Prosecutor makes a decision and does not inform the Secretary of State in such a delicate matter? How is it that the D.A. doesn't inform the bailiff of such a decision? I would also like to know from the Minister how he views the substance of this decision, because nobody in the Netherlands understands this. If you make an appointment with the Telegraaf to take a photo, it is of course not the intention that that photo should be in the archive, but that that photo should be in the newspaper. No one understands the decision of the state's attorney's office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u19	I also indicated in the letter that the D.A.'s office made that assessment. The name Telegraaf is not mentioned in that, not even in the coverage I received from the D.A. I therefore assume that the Public Prosecutor's Office was not aware of this, unlike Mr Oskam. Reclassing The Netherlands was again aware of the fact that a photo would appear. I say this to make it clear that both the Public Prosecutor's Office and Reclassification Netherlands were aware of the fact. As far as I have been able to determine the investigation in one day, the Minister and the Secretary of State have not been informed. I propose that I include all the questions that Mr Oskam asks about the precise procedure in the letter I will send to the Chamber at the end of the trial, if the Public Prosecutor's Office will finally have reviewed Reclassification Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u20	That means the fact story will be part of the letter you're sending to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u21	Yes. I'm never so bad about the facts, because that's always a cove of misery. On the basis of the D.A.'s report, I'll show you how it went. Especially interesting is how it will be in the future, although that is no more important than what has happened in the past.
