ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u1	Colleague. Today we are meeting for the last time in this assembly. Today and next week is the change of guard. That goes with some ceremonial: 35 of you say goodbye. This means that we lose a lot of knowledge, vision and experience. We are consoled by the idea that it will hopefully be renewed next week with the arrival of the new members. After all, an institution is as powerful as its people. Today, however, it is not just a question of saying goodbye to a large number of colleagues. We also mark the end of the 2011-2015 parliamentary period. Before I address those Members who say goodbye with a single word, I would like to take this opportunity to take a brief look at the developments that the Chamber has experienced during this period. A period of office is not, in principle, confined to figures and statistics, but to give a small indication of what has been dealt with by this Chamber in recent years, I can mention the following. We have dealt with 990 legislative proposals, eight of which have been rejected. 263 motions have been tabled, 99 of which have been accepted. 18 motions were even accepted unanimously. More than 680 commitments were registered, of which 68% have now been met. Especially for Mr Reuten, I added these figures to my contribution in a footnote! Political developments in recent years have undoubtedly had their impact on this Chamber and on the way in which this Chamber is looked at. Already during the Rutte I cabinet the attention for the First Chamber was greater than before. Under Rutte II this line was continued exponentially. More than ever, attention was paid to the fact that the First Chamber is also a political body. I remember the time when we couldn't get the press out here with a stick. Well, that's different now. However, the Court of First Instance still sees it as its duty to assess legislative proposals on legality, feasibility and enforcement. In the coming years, too, the Chamber and the Cabinet will have to find their way in the current relatively unique political situation where the Cabinet has no majority in the Upper Chamber. The Chamber held a large number of notable debates during this period. A small selection of the series: the increase in the AOW age, the reforms of the housing sector, fur farming, the Health Insurance Act and the free choice of doctors, the National Police, the revision of the judicial card and the Prostitution Act. In all these cases, the Court has sought to assess the legality in a broad sense. These include legal protection, legal certainty and compatibility with the Constitution and treaties. In some cases, the First Chamber had to give an opinion on fundamental and controversial issues, such as the infringement of a fundamental right. This was the case, among other things, with the legislative proposals on ritual slaughter, denial officials and lesbian parenthood. For followers of the constitutional developments, this parliamentary period also offered a sufficiently interesting case: the debate on the report of the State Committee on the Constitution, the corrective and consultative referendum, the right to vote of the island councils in the Caribbean Netherlands and the House for whistleblowers. On a number of occasions, the Chamber also reflected on the way in which it was elected and its position in the state system vis-à-vis the other state powers. The many constitutional developments have led the Chamber to consult several times with the Council of State. In February 2012, for the first time, the Chamber made use of the possibility to ask the Advisory Section of the Council of State for direct information. It concerned the Top Income Standards Act and the Audit Board Act. Since then, twice more information has been requested on Article 13 of the Health Insurance Act and on democratic control in the European Union. The connection between the First Chamber and the Council of State is a special one. We are, in a way, state-law allies at the end and at the beginning of the legislative process. How seriously and conscientiously the Chamber takes its constitutional responsibility, it appeared during the debate on the state of the rule of law in March 2014. In the area of state law, the implementation and drafting of legislation in the new structure of the Caribbean part of the Kingdom also took place. Working visits and the Interparliamentary Kingdom consultation enabled consultation on the new status of the islands, their consequences for the daily existence of their inhabitants and the future of the Kingdom in a broad sense. During this period, the First Chamber made remarkable use of the possibility of holding expert meetings in preparation for the plenary examination of a legislative proposal or note or policy debate. We have experienced how important it is to be able to ask experts and stakeholders directly about the underlying issues and the feasibility of a legislative proposal. The quality of these meetings therefore contributed to the quality of the debates in the Chamber. Over the last few years, the First Chamber has also kept in mind more and more prominently the general measures taken by the Board of Directors. AMvBs increasingly contain provisions with far-reaching implications for the feasibility of legislation. It is for this reason that the Court considers it its duty to monitor this matter. In a single case, the Court even wishes that a subject covered by an AMvB should be regulated by law. Recently this was played by the Milk Cattle Act. In recent years, the First Chamber has also increasingly pointed out the dangers and objections to pre-legislative measures. At European level, coordination and harmonisation of economic and budgetary policies were particularly important. The Chamber has repeatedly supported the consolidation of democratic control in economic and financial governance reforms in Europe. For example, the Chamber has acted against the undermining of the budget law of national parliaments through the introduction of the European Semester. Furthermore, by a narrow majority, the First Chamber objected to the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, paid close attention to the implications of the Eastern Partnership policy and made the first preparations for the parliamentary dimension of the Dutch Presidency of the EU in 2016. In the context of maintaining international relations, the First Chamber has again received several foreign delegations during this period. I would like to mention the most striking ones: Chinese President Xi Jinping, Italian President Napolitano, French President Hollande, Israeli President Peres, NATO Secretary General Rasmussen, King Filip and Queen Mathilde of Belgium and King Felipe and Queen Letizia of Spain. Several foreign visits were also made. The Chamber has also been particularly involved in Parliamentary Assembly during this period. We have now become so used to the abbreviations that I no longer have to name the names in full: PACE, COSAC, OSCE, NATO PA, Benelux and IPU. Through all these activities at international level, the Chamber has further developed and deepened its contribution to parliamentary diplomacy. Ten days ago, we had almost all the Presidents of the European Senate here with their delegations at the conference of the Association of European Senates. The reporting of this meeting, which is still being distributed, provides a wonderful sample map of the functions that bicameral systems perform in our time. A unique feature of the history of the Chamber was the parliamentary investigation into the Dutch privatisation and independence policy. For the first time in history, the Chamber conducted such an extensive parliamentary inquiry. This meant that the Chamber had to and could determine its own approach in organising this. The investigation led to a sound report with a lot of reference. This approach therefore provides a blueprint for any parliamentary inquiries of the Upper House in the future. Another special committee set up by the Chamber during this period was the GRECO Committee, which had the task of preparing a response from the First Chamber to the report of the Group of States against Corruption of the Council of Europe on the prevention of corruption and the promotion of integrity among parliamentarians and the judiciary in the Netherlands. This report led to the addition of a chapter on integrity to our Rules of Procedure and provides an important basis for the Chamber to continue its work conscientiously. As part of the work I would like to mention another development: the introduction of the iPad. In September 2011, with the introduction of the First Chamber app for senators, the possibility was created to receive and read the agendas and meeting pieces on their iPad. In this Chamber period we have virtually completely turned on this digital meeting facility. That was getting used to in the beginning, I say honestly. Not rarely did a MP come to the staff with the question: how do I get my app on the screen? And where's the print button? And even: where's the switch? That was after we played with it for six months. With this EK app, the Chamber became the world's first paper-poor parliament; a trend that is now being followed internationally. In particular, the European Parliament has been inspired by us. With the mention of the app, I have reached the last issue I would like to mention in this introduction: the official support of the Chamber. I've said it on several occasions, and I'll say it again today. In what we Members of Parliament do, the excellent support we receive is indispensable. It's from a small team. It is one of the smallest offices in the world, but the quality it delivers under the inspiring leadership of Griffin Geert Jan Hamilton is unmatched.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u2	I know that I speak on behalf of all of you when I thank all the staff, including those from the Report and Editorial Service, security and catering for the tireless professional support we have received from them over the last four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u3	I now turn to the Members who are saying goodbye to the First Chamber today. Before doing so, I would like to mention how deeply we have all been touched by the loss of Willem Witteveen as a result of the disaster with the MH17. We had to say goodbye to him too early, and that certainly affects us on a day like today. Henk Beckers. Your southern tongue trap betrays your Limburg origin and Brabant residence. In combination with your sympathetic character, this makes many people consider you soft. You are, but you are also persevering and principled. In the debates it became clear over and over again that you have an iron will, a characteristic that is useful in politics. During the four years you served the Chamber, you were particularly active in the areas of social affairs, employment and care. These areas were the subject of three major decentralisations, the 3D. It was about caring for the long-term sick or elderly, helping to find work and youth care. In your view, the profit of these decentralisations lies in laying down responsibilities for municipalities and helping citizens from their capacities, competences and responsibilities. However, it is important to communicate well with the citizens. You also insisted that municipalities should not be guided by financial motives, but rather by the quality of the allocation and implementation of the provision. In your contributions, you have always paid particular attention to the position of young people. You did this with the conviction that every human being has talents and that it is important to develop them further and to speak to them. Take responsibility, but keep an eye on the vulnerable among us: it is one of the spearheads that you have put forward in your political career. This career took you from municipal politics to provincial politics and eventually to the Upper House. Today you leave active politics and focus on helping start-ups in Den Bosch to develop their talents. Martin van Beek. In October 2012, you entered the right flank of this Chamber. I mean that literally, because you're far in the right corner from the rostrum. But I also mean it a little figuratively. This is your first political function, but you have been active in society for a long time. For example, your commercial work as an independent entrepreneur and as a general manager of Europe came in handy for an American company for your work for the Committee on Economic Affairs. As a champion of the strong position of SMEs, you advocated on several occasions for business expense relief. You see in SMEs the employment engine of the Netherlands, which is also the source of the biggest innovations in our economy. Entrepreneurs should not only be given room for new initiatives, but also for certainty about the survival of their businesses. You are afraid of unfairly favouring foreign competition through European subsidies. You have always defended the position of entrepreneurs in your parliamentary contributions and will undoubtedly continue to advocate the entrepreneurial interest in the future. Margreeth de Boer. When you joined this Chamber, you also followed in the footsteps of your father. That gave your office an extra dimension. In your maiden speech on the Dutch ID card fee, you accused the cabinet of being "arrogant and pedantic." You asked the Chamber not to accuse you of the same thing. We will certainly not do that, but I am accusing you of almost tireless perseverance. I mean this as a compliment. You took part in numerous debates and asked the rulers about the seam of the stocking. The topics you dealt with ranged from finance and taxes to housing, domestic administration and justice. Your contributions have always put sustainability, emancipation and human rights first. In legislative proposals such as the law of prostitution, the legal parenting of the mother and refuse officials, your expertise in the area of women's rights and equal treatment was best served. As someone born in Friesland, you must know the expression "to show immense tinke" when it comes to showing empathy for someone's position. That is exactly what you have always advocated. Even after you leave this Chamber, the emancipation of women is in good hands with you. Roger from Boxtel. When you first took place in the green benches four years ago, that was a certain self-evident and relaxed attitude. This is partly explained by the fact that you, as Minister and MP, already knew this house well, but I also believe it is part of your character. As chairman of the political group, you were always there when it was necessary and you were certainly not afraid to take a stand, but at the same time you were able to take the tension out of the air with a relative remark. This was often accompanied by some charm. At the beginning of each meeting of the Seniors College, I was treated to a kiss: correct, just above hand. In the debates, you showed yourself to be a strong advocate of the cultural sector. The policy debate culture that we held in September 2013 was therefore a piece of work for you. Or should I say Tintin? You seem to be a big fan of that. You advocated that research be carried out into the profound consequences of the cuts in this sector. You would have preferred to see that these cuts were partly undone. Culture is essential in your view for connecting people to each other, something that cannot be directly expressed in financial value. By the way, your affinity was broader than culture. A motion of yours, adopted unanimously, asked the government to ensure that contracting authorities do not have to bear any costs for registering or obtaining information from TenderNed. In the defence field, you have argued that it is high time to create a common European defence force. In the field of education, you have always argued that more attention should be paid to quality and better integration of graduates into the labour market. After last year's autumn agreement, you appointed the D66 party in the House of Representatives to "his Majesty's most loyal opposition." In the First Chamber, which you have described as the "chambre de passion," you have carried out your controlling representative task unabated. That time is coming to an end. When you were allowed to fantasize about your dream weekend a while ago in Het Financieele Dagblad, you chose a twelfth-century castle with restaurant on a vast estate in the heart of Tuscany. I would like to give you my heartfelt thanks, but honestly I suspect that you will continue to look for new challenges even after you leave the Chamber. In the FD, you said 60 is the new 40. In 20 years, you'll say 80 is the new 60. Willem Bröcker. A culture shock is a disorientation that a person can feel when he or she becomes acquainted with another way of life as a result of visiting a new country or moving to a new environment. I dare say that you experienced something similar when you set foot on Binnenhof 22 from the international world of assurance, tax and consulting services. The Hague square kilometre has its own way of dealing with strategic planning and conflict management. However, your initial amazement and distance proved to be your greatest asset. They made it possible for you, in your own sober manner, to provide the necessary practical knowledge and expertise for the many tax issues that this Chamber has dealt with. I know that fiscalists are used to quantifying, but for your group you were invaluable. Together with Mr Essers, you advocated reducing fiscal instrumentalism. You have always stressed in debates that the Netherlands needs an open and constructive tax system to maintain its competitive position. You fought one-sided and colourful coverage of our tax environment and argued that The Hague should not interfere too much with agreements within the financial sector. Last year, you led a committee that carefully reviewed the report of the Group of States against Corruption (GRECO) and made recommendations to the First Chamber for the prevention of corruption. I referred to it in my introduction. The report led to almost all political groups having drawn up rules on integrity and the Chamber as a whole having amended its Rules of Procedure. I'm surprised no one has named you El Greco anymore. I would like to take this last opportunity to introduce it. Peter van Dijk is not present. Nevertheless, we are talking about him. Peter van Dijk served the Chamber one term. We met him as a friendly colleague with strong Zeeland roots. Together with Senator Schouwenaar and Senator Van Zandbrink, Omroep Zeeland even described him as "the three Zeeland fighters in the First Chamber." In this Chamber he has dealt in particular with Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations. On behalf of the KOREL Committee, he has travelled several times to the Caribbean part of the Kingdom, either because of a working visit or because of the Interparliamentary Kingdom Consultation. Travel is in his blood, because he also attended interparliamentary conferences in Riga and Vilnius on behalf of the SZW committee. He was also part of the delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, on behalf of which he participated in the election observation in Russia in 2012 and last year attended the integration of the Dutch Air Mobile Brigade into the German Division Schnelle Kräfte. Peter van Dijk spoke in this Chamber against unnecessary burdens and interference from European policies, and for transparent governance and sound and economical financial policies. I am confident that he will also take these principles into account in his work as group chairman on behalf of the PVV with the Provincial States of Zeeland. Adri Duivesteijn. Before you entered this Chamber, you had already earned your spurs on the domestic administration and as a representative of the people. As a city council member, alderman, deputy mayor and MP, you had become a true concept in the field of spatial planning and urban renewal. You are a passionate politician with a great social heart. In your maiden speech about rent increase on the basis of income, you gained eternal fame by getting the sweat in the hands of the cabinet. You maintained the principles that you had for decades and advocated an alternative social housing system, whereby the landlord sets a rental price based on the quality of the property, which encourages housing corporations to invest and where there are equal rights for organisations of residents. The moods were high. Our building was almost besieged by journalists. Finally, a compromise was reached and after a long debate there was no night of Duivetteijn. A year later, again in December, you were faced with a fundamental choice. This time it concerned the consequences for free choice of doctors under Article 13 of the Health Insurance Act. Together with two fellow Members, you voted against the bill, because you believe it is contrary to equality of law. The cabinet got into trouble again and again you were flooded by camera crews. To keep the back straight as an independent representative of the people is not always easy. Your principled moral attitude, including with regard to your own party, has made you loved and less popular over the years. But it is as they say: in the end it is one's own conscience that matters. Policies are many, principles are few, policies will change, principles never do. Heleen Dupuis. You have been a member of this Chamber since 8 June 1999. With a seniority of 5,838 days, you are one of the longest serving members of the Chamber. In addition, I note that all four longest-sitting members are unfortunately saying goodbye today. The fifth one stays: it's here for you. We've come to know you as a senator of combative character. You are a clear and clear viewer, and you have a great deal of expertise in dealing with ministers. You've given them many uncomfortable hours. Of course, that is not something we as a Chamber want, but it is important for Members of Parliament to know where it is sanding. You did that like no other. The bill that characterizes your work in the Chamber is that for the electronic patient file. As a specialist in medical ethics, you put your teeth in this file and didn't let go. In your opinion, the privacy of clients was not sufficiently guaranteed, leading to unacceptable risks for the proposed national digitisation. By the way, it should not be inferred from your objections to the EPD that you are an opponent of digitisation. As a member of the Household Commission, you were jointly responsible for the decision to introduce the iPad. Put it on the iPad or throw it in the clicko, you said when you were asked if you still wanted to receive written documents. Your affinity with ethics also appeared in the debate on blasphemy. In this you stated that the State must give space to practice religion freely and that citizens must also give each other respectfully the space to do so. Freedom is a great asset to you. In a speech as Vice-President, you once indicated that this might be because you were born in May 1945. You said: freedom cannot be proclaimed, it must be polite and carried by citizens, elected and administrators. After you finish your duties as a Member of Parliament, you will also get a piece of your freedom back, although I doubt you will miss this work anyway. You have become more and more at home here over the years. You even took the dog from time to time, who then got asylum in the room of the head of operations. So it became a bit of a menagerie here. If you ever long for the Binnenhof, I can assure you that the feeling is mutual. Peter Essers. It has not been given to many Members of Parliament to speak on behalf of a whole committee. This requires a great deal of substantive expertise and a binding political role. Both qualities are available to a large extent. Where Mr Bröcker represented the tax practice, you did so for fiscal science. In the debates, you argued that the Netherlands should be more proud of its fiscal policy in order to improve its fiscal competitiveness. In your opinion, accusations that the Netherlands is a tax haven are incorrect and also damaging to the image. At the same time, you advocated reforms in this tax system. It is a pity that the reforms recently announced will not reach the Chamber until after your farewell. In all the years you have been a member here, 47 out of 67 commitments have been fulfilled to you. The others are undoubtedly on their way to becoming that. A motion of yours was also adopted unanimously on the existing and new agreements with housing corporations and urban recovery bodies. In another motion which received broad support from the Chamber, the government was asked to come up with a novella that splits the landlord's tax in 2013 from the following years. In the European field, you have opposed the growing role of Brussels, whose rules have a serious impact on the Dutch budgetary cycle. In your opinion, citizens should feel that Brussels is going its own way and they do not have any influence on it. In all these 12 years, you have always filled your membership with a critical and constructive look. Last year, thanks to you, we had a unique experience in this house: a lunch break concert by the Royal Harmony Sophia's Vereeniging from Loon op Zand. You've been president of that company since 2002. The fact that your own son played along made the performance even more unique. I observed you, sitting in the benches, proud as a peacock and, as with parents, slightly tense or everything would go well. Today, the roles are reversed and your family is looking at you proudly. Hans Franken. Google the words "Hans Franken" and "right-hand state," and you get 114,000 hits. That's not surprising: you're a lawyer pur sang. I will never forget that you fought for your maiden speech in 2004 on a legal issue. You knew: this is still referred to in length of years and any other subject would not be appropriate. As a judge, professor, member of the Council of State and MP, you have developed over the years to become eminence grise. No less than nine motions from your hand were accepted. They focused, among other things, on the cuts in funded legal aid, on the legislation on and supervision of intelligence services, on access to the Legal Loket, on quality standards in the judiciary and on unnecessary costs in the storage of Internet data. Your special expertise in the field of ICT and information law was of great value for the work of the Chamber. This expertise has recently emerged in the policy debate on the role of the government in digital data processing. You argued that freedom of expression, protection of privacy and confidential communication are old acquired rights, which should not be restricted. In your opinion, an intelligence service should serve a democratic society and therefore be placed under parliamentary and judicial control. Over the years, you have always argued that the automatic storage of traffic and location data for the purposes of criminal proceedings, intelligence and security is contrary to privacy fundamental rights. This was confirmed by the Court of Justice in 2013. Expert meetings with the Rathenau Institute were organised on your initiative. In addition to your input in the field of justice, you have been very active as Vice-President of the Chamber and as Vice-President of the Permanent Committee for Foreign Affairs, Defence and Development Cooperation. I would add your very active commitment to PACE, which gave you both an observation mission in the presidential elections in Russia and a papal audience, for the OSCE Assembly and for the IPU. This list of your activities is only indicative, not exhaustive. You have made a very special contribution to the work of this Chamber. As a small personal note, I would like to say that I was once a member of your staff in Leiden, and that you later spoke at my farewell as director of the Moot Court. It is my great honour to be able to address you as a Member of Parliament during your farewell. A winged expression of you in your legal education was: it ain't necessary so. In your group, it is the rule that Members of Parliament should, in principle, leave the Chamber after 12 years. As far as I am concerned, and I think many with me, I would say in your case: it ain't necessarily so. Mariëtte Fritters-Klinnen. In your maiden speech in 2011, you said: if one sees what is right and fails to do so, that is a lack of courage. That's a quote, you said Confucius added. It comes from the Analects; a writing left to us by his students. This includes compassion, respect and devotion. He himself was a good example of his philosophy that a man must first and foremost be guided by his own experience. This is what you did in your work in the Chamber. You drew from your experience in care and education for your substantive contribution to the debates. In your maiden speech, this was a proposal that introduces incentive payment into the Market Organisation Health Act. But you have also spoken in the treatment of the Youth Act, of the profit distribution medical-specialist care, of the Wmo 2015 and of the concentration testing care. You have argued in the debates that there is a total lack of transparency about the financial situation of hospitals. Not only is there a lack of insight into the quality of a treatment, but the rates are also unclear. In addition, you have denounced the increasing power of health insurance companies. You doubt to what extent health insurers will purchase on the basis of quality and whether the costs of health care will actually decrease by effective purchasing. Setting up quality programmes is a step in the right direction for improving care. In your opinion, internal quality improvement leads to both more responsible care and to the detection of abuses. Transparency as a basis for external supervision has always been your creed. You didn't miss the courage to defend this at the interrupting microphone. Fred de Graaf, also known among us as "the mayor of the Netherlands." You have a special gift to chair. Of course, you exude authority. Your broad knowledge, years of administrative experience and warm character make almost every group happy to choose you as its chairman. Diplomacy is also in your blood. This proved to be the case during your presidency of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence and Development, but also during your presidency of the Chamber. You visited Romania, Kosovo, Croatia, Australia and South Korea, even set foot across the border in North Korea. You received dignitaries from the Palestinian territories, China, Mali, Israel, Luxembourg, Canada, with whom you have a special connection, Germany, Italy and Liberia. Apparently you moved effortlessly in various international companies and managed to represent the Chamber in dignity. As President of the Chamber, you had an important binding role. In a sympathetic manner and with humour, you led the meetings. The words "staccato please," accompanied by a penetrating hand gesture, were indicative of the way you directed the spokesmen. The organization surrounding the inauguration of King Willem-Alexander has led you in an excellent way. You were the right man at the right time. That this culmination should ultimately lead to your resignation as President remains difficult to digest. However, the way you recaptured yourself afterwards shows your steadfast character and your passion for parliamentary membership. During this year's General European Reviews, you argued that decisiveness is the last resort to regaining confidence in the European Union and thus to rise above discussions about more or less Europe, North and South, East and West, Grexit and Brexit. In order to tackle the problems of the economy, security and migration, you believe that the European Union must act more as a unit. A plea for action and unity. It could not have summarized your contribution to the Chamber better. Guusje ter Horst. "I'm a pragmatist, not a theorist," you once said in an interview. I daresay that's true. We have come to know you during this period as an exceptionally firm Member of Parliament, someone who is not afraid to take a stand and clearly defends that position. As chairman of the Committee on Immigration & Asylum / JHA Council, your rich administrative experience was well served. You are praised for the bold way in which you led the committee. Also the smallest details did not escape your attention. As a former minister, it was undoubtedly interesting to see the parliamentary process from the benches rather than behind the government table. It led to a special situation when you, as a member of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Privatisation/Seviation Government Services, questioned former administrators and roommates about their role in this process. This study focused on the public interest and the relationship between citizens and government. These topics are the common thread of your long political career. A year ago, you chaired an expert meeting in which several committees were informed about cyber intelligence and public interest. After that meeting, you indicated how difficult it is to find the balance between, on the one hand, far-reaching espionage opportunities for intelligence services and, on the other hand, the privacy protection of citizens. The parliamentary control of finding this balance is preferably in the hands of Members of Parliament who have expertise in this matter. This was supported by the practical argument that they have the most sense of this. Your membership of this Chamber is coming to an end today. But we will undoubtedly hear a lot from you in the future. I understand you guide young people who are at the beginning of their political careers. This promises for the future a set of practical politicians with a solid basis of substance. Liesbeth Knippers-Heijnert. This farewell in a way evokes déjà vu feelings. In 2003 you once said goodbye to this Chamber. Fortunately, you returned in 2007 to serve the Chamber for another eight years. You are legally highly qualified, particularly in the area of company law. You're an independent thinker with a visionary mind. On several occasions, after the entry into force of a legislative proposal, the judge made the judgment you had already warned of. In the debate on the Work and Security Act, you objected to the rapid entry into force of a number of parts of the law and got Minister Asscher to postpone it for six months. In dealing with the extension of the minimum wage law, you argued that there are many possibilities to circumvent the criteria of the bill and that there is much room for bogus constructions. You also said that the bill unnecessarily burdened the business community with a lot of bureaucracy and high administrative burdens. Last week, during your last speech on the Fake Constructions Act, you objected to the trend of presenting empty AMvBs, whose parliament cannot judge what is in them. You also argued, once again successfully, that certain technical elements of this law should only come into force later, so that companies have sufficient room to prepare themselves for this. You are like no other able to think several steps forward. If you detect an inconsistency or omission, you will not fail to mention it. You can also show that very well non-verbal. Through one raised eyebrow one already knows enough! In an interview in 1999, you said you were not a political animal. After a busy meeting at the Binnenhof the next morning, you were always happy to see the sun rise over the meadows behind your house in Sauwerd. That may be so, but you have played an indispensable role for your group and the First Chamber. In this Chamber this was among other things as chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs. Your heart lies with Economic Affairs, especially with energy issues, such as smart meters, roaming and telecommunications. You led this committee with a tight hand and a great deal of knowledge. I was told from all sides that the Prime Minister has now arrived. I'd seen him long before it was whispered to me. You are very welcome, you have missed a lot so far! Anne Koning, you have been a member of this Chamber since 18 June 2013. It was the second time a king was sworn in. You arrived when the room was halfway through the drive. In a handsome way you managed to get on this running train. You worked quickly and made your own use of this house almost effortlessly. The combination with your work as a Provincial State Member in South Holland makes you pay extra attention to the implications of the legislation in question at provincial level. As chairman of the Foundation for Safe Games and former Head Programs at Jantje Beton, the fate of children has your special attention. For example, in the debate on child reform, you asked for attention to be paid to the position of single parents and their children living on a minimum income. In addition, you are competent in urban development and you have an affinity with energy issues. For example, you supported the promotion of sustainable energy production by housing corporations, schools andzzp'ers. In your opinion, the government should remove as many obstacles as possible for individuals and small organisations to show initiative in generating renewable energy. In addition, you have recently spoken out for transparency in companies that perform services in the public interest. During your parliamentary membership, you have rightly called for attention to be paid to small, private initiatives that make an important contribution to a better society. Ruud Koole. When you entered the Chamber four years ago, you had been politically active for years, including as party chairman. All this combined you with a professor of political science. It gave you the opportunity to test the theory against the practice and vice versa. For the Wiardi Beckman Foundation, among other things, you wrote scientific articles about Dutch politics and its institutional development. With your membership of this house, your political career moved from behind the scenes to the stage. That transition wasn't hard for you. You became a spokesperson for the Interior and higher education and took an active part in parliamentary activities, such as the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. During the debate on the consultative referendum, you advocated the inclusion of a horizon clause in the legislative proposal, which provides that the consultative referendum will no longer be an option if the implementing law for the corrective referendum has entered into force. You also asked for a 30% turnout threshold to be set. The initiators have taken up your plea and since January this year the two additions to this bill have been made. You have fulfilled your parliamentary membership with enthusiasm, but at the same time you are also critical of the institution. We will undoubtedly continue to hear from you in publications on the position of the Upper House. I trust that you will not leave aside the added value of this Chamber in the system of checks-and-balances. Kees de Lange. You're a man of science. Science is a way of thinking, just as it is a source of knowledge. You are in favour of a rational society in which knowledge and interest in culture and science are widely present and actually self-evident. You have argued in the debates that scientific research, particularly in the beta sphere, is the source of real innovation because it is the basis for all useful applications. Basic research, regardless of industrial interests, is, in your opinion, an absolute necessity. You have also carried out a small crusade against the euro. In your opinion, monetary union in Europe contains irreparable, fundamental looming errors. The euro has become a potential binder in Europe. You therefore believe that the Netherlands should return to a situation in which it can decide independently on its own financial policy. As a member of a one-man group, you have done a great deal of work. An omnivore and a generalist, always able to make a good, substantive contribution to many debates. I shall therefore miss you carefully shuffling step towards the interrupting microphone. Then my contradiction followed in terms: 'Shortly, Mr De Lange'. You're an independent thinker. You have shown that very recently. I hope your departure from the Chamber will give you room to deepen your broad scientific interests. René van der Linden, or should I say Mister Europe? You are first a Limburger who speaks for himself rather than a European, than a Dutch. As no other, you are aware of the belief in European integration. No less than four languages you speak fluently and when I measure Limburg, there are five. When you were faced with Minister Frans Timmermans at the April 2014 General European Reviews, it became clear that there were two heavyweights in the debate about Europe at a level that most did not have. Your maiden speech in 1999 on the debate on the State of the European Union ended with the words: "We live, as it were, in the European province of the Netherlands." The tone was set and you continued that line as well. You have a keen memory for the creation of international relations. As the views of the trading people are directed at this Chamber via the ceiling, so your eyes were always on abroad. There are few places in the world where you haven't been, or where you at least have contacts. As an ambassador of parliamentary diplomacy, you took a very active part in the various interparliamentary bodies. For three years, you were President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. From 2009 to 2011, you were President of the Upper House, a task that you fulfilled with great commitment and commitment. Not only did you ensure that the parliamentary processes were conducted properly, you also ensured that your great passion for European cooperation was translated into an active commitment of the Chamber in influencing European policy and maintaining international contacts. You have an unusually fast pace. Like a whirlwind, you go from appointment to appointment. If I were on a job visit with you, I'd have to dribble after you like an idiot to keep up with you, but you always involve people. The nickname "us Reneke" is indicative of your open, friendly, Limburg character. During your presidency, we have been treated to Limburg pie on a number of occasions. Your long political career as a Member of Parliament, Secretary of State, and for the last sixteen years as a Member of this Chamber, is unfortunately coming to an end today, but the more than 38 years you have spent at the Binnenhof will not be forgotten. The European flag on the roof of the Mauritstoren on your initiative will continue to fly for years. I would like to take this opportunity to suspend the sitting for a short moment so that we can move on for a moment. After all, it is a long sitting and since we have just spoken about one of our most bourgeois MPs, it seems to me very appropriate that we should be provided with a glass of champagne served here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u4	Marijke Linthorst. With a four-year break, you have been a member of this Chamber between 1995 and 2015, of which we have been able to work well together in the Household Commission over the last two years. At the time, your candidacy was inspired by a great interest in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. You had noticed in Rotterdam that many Antillean young people were stuck in urban society and you wanted to work for them. Soon you were one of the most active members of the committee for Dutch-Antillian and Aruban affairs. From 2007 to today, you were chairman of this committee, which has been called the KOREL Committee since 10-10-10, i.e. the Committee on Kingdom Relations. Your involvement in the West has grown over the years, especially due to the various work visits you have made there. You now speak a nice word Papiaments and have a large network on the islands. On several occasions, you have argued that relations between representatives of the Caribbean and the European part of the Kingdom should become fairer and more direct. You were bothered by careful conversations, full of fear or indifference. Only if expectations are clear again and again can we continue on a good basis with each other. With your great commitment and years of experience, you were invaluable for the Interparliamentary Kingdom Consultation. Another important topic during your membership was education. No less than three motions from your hand were accepted unanimously. They dealt with appropriate education, child care allowance and the right to education. You have also actively participated in the education projects within the Upper House itself. Several times you led the final of the Third Chamber, the debate of 75 elementary school students. You're an independent thinker, not afraid to go against the current. A number of times you were the only one in your group to vote against a legislative proposal. You have recently been one of the minority in your group who voted in principle against restricting the choice of doctors. We've come to know you as a champion of solidarity. Principles are not a commodity to you. Pia Lokin-Sassen. I don't think there's a lot of people who quote Thorbecke by heart, but you can bring his Eminence up to speed. You once described the law as a collection of ink stains to which we attach meanings that are often subject to dual interpretation. If that's the case, we're gonna be doing a rookschach test here every week. Then we leave open whether everyone recognizes the same butterfly or whether the cabinet had another butterfly in mind. With passion and passion, you have dealt with constitutional issues. In Groningen, you teach your students that the Constitution is a broader concept than the Constitution. The open nature of the Constitution means that not all the foundations of the Dutch constitutional system are included in the Constitution. However, you do lack an important foundation: the right to a fair trial for an independent and impartial judge. In a motion adopted unanimously, you have therefore advocated the inclusion of an article in the Constitution which guarantees this right. The Minister has informed us that he will carry out this motion. It was our former colleague Alfons Dölle who persuaded you years ago to join the CDA and who taught you the tricks of the profession when you arrived in the Chamber behind the scenes. Last year, you participated in a book on his political legacy, entitled "Sould State Law." A striking title for a passion that you shared together. Erik Meijer. During the relatively short period you were a member of the Chamber, you have not been indifferent. As an expert in urban development, you provided a thorough input into debates on spatial development and urban renewal. You held your maiden speech in the debate on the abolition of WGR-plus regions. Here you outlined the history of the creation of the plus regions, a development that you have been able to experience closely through your previous work. You argued that in core municipalities urban development has grown far beyond the municipal boundaries, which you believe calls for increased public intervention in the areas of environmental management, public transport and housing. You also called for sufficient attention to be paid to administrative quality. Your entry into this Chamber was always permeated with historical awareness. As a former Member of the European Parliament, you could see the developments and the impact of the EU on our domestic balances in a broad context. For example, you argued in the debate on the EU's post-taxation that this influence has become much bigger than we were previously aware of. In your opinion, being able to decide on the budget without interference from others is a characteristic of a sovereign state. Those who do not have that freedom fall to the level of a state or a province. Your administrative and political career covers a period of 40 years and varies from the level of the district to that of the EU. With your membership of this Chamber, you have also been able to experience the functioning of the national parliament and the circle is in some sense complete. Nanneke Quik-Schuijt. In 1967, you joined the judiciary as one of the first women. Here you were a child's judge for many years and decided daily on the fate of young offenders and victims of domestic violence and neglect. A complex world full of dilemmas, in which the interest of the child is not, or is hardly, unambiguous. With your membership of this Chamber you also became active in another pillar of the trias politician. Here, too, your passion for children's rights appeared. You believe in the sense of community. "It takes a village to raise a child." With regard to the family itself, you have advocated that fathers and mothers should take care of their children equally, so that there is more continuity after divorce. It would benefit not only the children, but also the emancipation of men and women. Furthermore, you were strongly in favour of setting up a wide-ranging multidisciplinary state committee to examine the relationship between legal, biological and social parents and the children they care for and raise. You have not limited those rights to judicial matters. Foreign policy and kingdom relations also had your special attention. Several times you visited the Caribbean part of the Kingdom and showed yourself to be an active and involved representative of the people. A motion of your hand adopted with broad support requests the government, the government of Curaçao, to support in reducing health damage caused by the presence of the Isla refinery. Your enormous ability to empathy combines you with an iron conviction. As soon as it appeared that a ruler chose an unwise route in your eyes, you showed yourself from your bright side. In this way, you ensured that no less than 30 commitments have been fulfilled for you over the years. Geert Reuten. Since 2007, you have been a member of the First Chamber. I have already referred to it in my introduction: you have a certain predilection for figures and statistics. Your walnut machine in your written contribution was often a contribution in itself and the written version of your contribution during debates was always provided with extensive tables and calculations down to promills. You have not made life easy for the officials at the Ministry of Finance and our own stenographers. It made your contribution to the common mortal not always easy to follow, but your background as associate professor of economics made you willing to explain some basic concepts. For example, in the debate on energy efficiency, you explained that a petajoule equals the energy it takes to lift 1,000 trillion apples a metre. In a recent debate on the General Measure of Management of the Milk Cattle Act, you were even willing to mimic the sound of a happy cow in the meadow up to three times. I must say that is phonetically very precisely laid down in the Acts. By the way, your atypical way of working has not been exposed to any effect. For example, in the case of the Milk Cattle Act, you performed a motion that was almost illegible and not sufficiently supported, but was finally accepted unanimously. On a number of occasions you objected to the unequal distribution of income and wealth in the Netherlands. You urged the Cabinet to properly assess the impact of its policy on the intended investment climate. You would prefer to see a short-term measure for a temporary general reduction in working time, so that the financial and social pain of unemployment can be reduced. As a guest lecturer in the political economy, you will undoubtedly continue to follow developments in this Chamber. In the history of this Chamber, you continue to live as a senator who has made his own contribution to parliamentary work. Tobias Reynaers. You served the Chamber one term. Your background as a lawyer made you particularly active in the field of justice. In the debate on the state of the rule of law, you stated that the rule of law is not just something of the academic and politically-administrative elite, but above all something that must be widely polite and borne by society. You indicated that the minority position is often too easy and unjustly dismissed as populism. In your opinion, it would benefit the democratic rule of law to respect the results of democratic processes, whatever the outcome. In the debates on criminal law, you were in favour of stricter sanctions and you were in favour of protecting the interests of victims of serious sex crimes and violent crimes. In that context, you said, "Conscience is more forgiving than memory." In daily life, you work in local government law and real estate, which has provided you with a good basis for your presidency of the permanent Commission for Infrastructure, Environment and Spatial Planning. Marijke Scholten. Since your arrival in 2011, we have come to know you as a very skilled and passionate lawyer, with an eye for details. In the debate on the budget states of Security and Justice, you stated that the government has a responsibility to give citizens, including the less wealthy, access to justice. The right of access to justice and justice must not be undermined by ill-considered cuts in subsidised legal aid. In a motion adopted with broad support, you argued that the government should examine in the short term the causes of the rising costs of this assistance. In addition to your many legal input, you have also shown great affinity with the various care issues. You have indicated that you are not afraid of more market forces in care. Provided that this is done in a responsible manner, it enables healthcare institutions to attract more power than would otherwise have been possible. Up to twice you have also tested the care capacities of this Room. With a temporary fainting, you made sure that the Registry could finally put its disaster plan into practice. The GP and spokesperson on behalf of the SP offered first-class help, after which you were quickly back to being the old one. Afterwards you could laugh very much about this, which is indicative of your sober and relativistic character. Tineke Slagter-Roukema. That's how I ended up with the aforementioned savior in distress. As Members of Parliament, we are sometimes criticised for our so-called side functions, but I think you have shown, like no other, how useful these social positions are. Your professional knowledge of the healthcare system has been of great value to the Chamber as a whole and the Committee for VWS in particular. I'm sure it wasn't always easy to combine the two roles. That's how you got a call from Minister Klink at an extremely inconvenient time. It led to the immortal words: "Minister, may I call you right back, I am in the midst of childbirth!'. You were one of the leaders of the resistance against the nationwide epd and also called for attention to be paid to the worrying development that health insurers are becoming ever greater and more powerful. You were also concerned about the introduction of the Youth Act. Each time you looked at the practical impact of legislative proposals and stood up for the interests of the minority. You yourself said that this is because you were raised to take responsibility for standards, stand up for weaker and just distribution. As chairman of the VWS committee, you created a loose, open atmosphere in which decisions were effectively made. You weren't afraid to show me anything of your own. It is reported that you once sang psalms during the meeting and quoted Bible texts. Your contribution and your relaxed character will certainly be missed. Ronald Sörensen. Although he is no longer present at the moment, I shall say a few words about his parliamentary membership. After an active career in municipal and provincial politics, he joined this Chamber four years ago. In his maiden speech he indicated that the task of the First Chamber lies in looking at the human measure in law. According to him, many problems in society can be solved by listening to the people on the workplace. He gained his own experience in the workplace as a teacher of biology and history in secondary education. A position he's held for over 32 years. He has therefore introduced this experience into his work as a Member of Parliament. For example, in a debate on the Cito test, he argued that such an objective test would be very welcome for many schools, also in order to protect children from overly high expectations of their parents. He expressed his opposition to cuts in student funding, partly because he felt that they restricted, in particular, the freedom of choice of students with a small grant. He is in favour of a wide range of education offering equal opportunities for all students. There may also be something to that. In his view, there is nothing wrong with making young people realize that they are paying in return for the investment society is making in them. As a real Rotterdammer with, I understand, Norwegian ancestors he has a straightforward character. To quote an old Rotterdam saying, "Don't talk, but clean." Ben Swagerman. In a recent interview in Het Financieele Dagblad, you said that life is about humour, timing and compassion. You also said that you were inspired by the sense of justice of your uncle and namesake. You have been able to develop this sense of justice over the years. Initially as a lawyer, later as a raio and as a prosecutor. You have a good eye for what is criminally permissible and inadmissible. This was reflected, among other things, in the debates on electronic detention, pre-trial detention, illegal hemp cultivation and the use of biomedical data from foreign nationals. At the same time, you have also shown your willingness to move into the legal arguments of the cabinet. At times, you were so strongly in agreement with the government's view that it seemed that a third member of the government participated in the debate via the interrupt microphone. You have a strong connection with the Caribbean part of the Kingdom, partly because of the fact that you were once Advocate General in the Netherlands Antilles. As a Member of Parliament, you have also implemented this commitment by making a working visit and playing an active role in the committee for KOREL. Today you say goodbye to the Chamber and you can focus on your work as Senior Vice President Security Services at our national aviation pride. Joyce Sylvester. Since 2003 you have been a member of this Chamber. Over the years we have come to know you as a bold, hard-working and energetic person. In 2013, you were one of the main characters in the documentary by the Senate. There was good to see how you in your own persistent and charming way wheeled and dealt to get everything around. You have also taken the chair of the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment very seriously. Your experience as mayor made it clear that on several occasions you have called attention to the consequences of legislation at municipal level. For example, in the debate on library facilities, you asked for attention to be paid to the fact that municipalities benefit from frameworks, standards and concrete arrangements to ensure that libraries are available to all their inhabitants. You also represented the Chamber abroad, by participating in an interparliamentary conference in Rome, where you stressed the importance of strong cities and the usefulness of a European urban agenda. You have a strong affinity with culture. In your opinion, culture has the ability to comment on human existence according to ethical and aesthetic standards. It also plays a role in social cohesion and individual development. In the policy debate on culture, therefore, you objected to efficiency thinking, bureaucracy and administrative burdens on institutions. In January 2016, the municipality of Naarden is supposed to become part of the new municipality of Gooise Meren, but with your passion, ability and drive for the public administration, there is no doubt that you will continue to be active in the public sector in the future. Gerrit Terpstra. "For the CDA, a single person with a goldfish is also a family." That statement is indicative of your character: a large dose of humor accompanied by a flawless relativization ability. There are many examples of your effortlessly witty improvisations. "Thinking on your feet" is what the English call it. For example, the term "a ritually slaughtered dead sparrow." When Mr Reuten recently treated us to a sung Wim Sonneveld fragment during the debate on the post, you quietly went to the chair with the words: 'President, I would have liked to rap, but left my associated rap equipment at home'. Since 2003 you have been a member of this Chamber. Before that, you were a Member of the House of Representatives, a member of the Provincial States of Utrecht and chairman of the Board of the Social Insurance Bank and the Christian National Trade Union. In the First Chamber, you often referred to your trade union history. You have repeatedly argued for sound and socio-economic policies aimed at reducing burdens, reducing public expenditure and combating unemployment. You have also argued that the Netherlands should, wherever possible, be in line with European policies and take into account the border effects of its national policies. You have a unique ability to grasp complex issues in their essence and then to relate them equally. As unproclaimed king of euphemism, you have more than once removed the sting from a conflict. I told you last week during the debate, and I repeat it again today: we, both colleagues and staff, are going to miss you. Not only your surprising and interesting contributions to the debate, but also your sympathetic, social character: courteous and interested. You greeted me every Tuesday with "President," followed by a slight head bow. Today I bow my head to you. Cool Thissen. 3.885 days you served this Chamber. For eight years, you were the chairman of the political group. In those years we have come to know you as an ambivalent and energetic person, with a infectious sense of humor and a great ability to connect people. You also have a great rhetorical capacity, for which the foundation was laid at the Bishop's College in Roermond. Membership of the First Chamber is not your first political function. Previously, you were active in local politics and performed a large number of party political functions; first within the PSP, later at GroenLinks. Your political drive stems from the awareness that the community is doing a lot for you and that you want to do something in return. You have repeatedly argued in this Chamber for the humanisation of the relationship between government and citizens. Citizens can only trust each other when they get trust from the government. In your opinion, self-respect is also necessary to bear co-responsibility for society. In this Chamber you have dealt with a wide range of topics ranging from dairy farming to pension funds. Twice, a motion from your hand was unanimously accepted. The first motion called on the government to involve Dutch municipal expertise in economic development in developing countries. The second was a plea for not letting patients' organisations disappear as a result of cuts. You have been under high political pressure in this Chamber on several occasions, for example in the increase in the AOW age in 2012 and in the pension plan in 2013. In the aforementioned documentary about the First Chamber it became clear how much you struggled with it. A balance had to be struck between the independent position of the parliamentary group on the one hand and the maintenance of agreements concluded by the government with the party on the other. However, you have never allowed political interests to prevail over peer loyalty. In this Chamber's memory, it's engraved on how you acted in the vote on the Wmo last year. A roll-call vote had been requested and Mr Holdijk had paid for illness. When a request was subsequently made for a group vote, you knew that this would mean that the legislative proposal you were against would not make it. Nevertheless, you kept to the agreement and called for the roll-call vote to continue. It was a textbook example of loyalty in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u5	You also expect the government as a whole to show personal solidarity. On several occasions, you have advocated a state of solidarity that sets an example and takes care of all those who need it. You leave this Chamber today, but your passion for and experience in the public administration will undoubtedly be well served in your new position at the UWV. Janny Vlietstra. A month ago, you said goodbye to Haren, where you were acting mayor for two years. Today you say goodbye to this Chamber, of which you were a member for four years. You were praised as "red Frisian in the Green Groningen Hare" for your commitment, your commitment and your great heart for social goals and culture. Those are the same characteristics I can attach to you again today. You are active in the public administration of the North of the Netherlands for about 33 years. This gave you the nickname "Noordelijk PvdA-kanon." As no other, you know how many levels of policy in The Hague are going through and how big the impact of seemingly small changes is. You have argued on several occasions in this Chamber for continuity in cabinet policy. In the regional area, you have also advocated the preservation of independent, independent regional broadcasters. In the social field, you have successfully advocated that the government encourage local authorities to involve at least 5% of the long-term unemployed and/or disabled people in the execution of works and services. Special attention has been paid to the position of veterans. Already in your maiden speech you stressed how important it is for them to be recognised for what they have done, but above all that there is care and guidance for those who struggle with psychological problems as a result of military missions. Since then, you have shown your involvement several times, including when veterans are received by the States General in 2013. In the future, you will undoubtedly continue to support this goal and the other social goals that are close to your heart. Klaas de Vries. Today is the third time you have said goodbye as a Member of Parliament. You did so in 1988 and in 2006 in the Lower House and today in the Upper House. At your farewell in the Lower House you were described as a fierce and persistent debater. I quote: 'Your beautiful senses never conceal the sharpness that you bring into the debate.' The years have passed, but the description is still correct. You rarely go to the interrupting microphone, but if you do, it's always easy: with a soft voice you're making hard judgments, with the necessary hypothermia of humor. From 2007 to 2011, you served as Vice-President of the Chamber. During that period you made a valuable contribution to the implementation of the renewal of the Chamber of Representatives. As a spokesperson, you have consistently advocated the protection of privacy, internet security and a constructive attitude towards Europe. At your initiative, the First Chamber asked more than 100 questions about the Dutch support for the invasion in Iraq at the end of 2008. You were able to turn the written question into a dangerous political instrument and thus served the truth about a painful issue in our recent history. Two weeks ago, a motion of yours on stepping up the fight against organised crime was adopted unanimously. It was an appropriate conclusion to your political career, which began in 1970 with the city council of Delft and eventually led to two ministerial committees, two informants and the membership of both Chambers of the States General. In addition, you have been a professor at Radboud University for several years, with as a teaching assignment The practice and culture of the Dutch Parliament. Fortunately, in the coming period, you will remain active as chairman of the Committee on the Election of Judges of the European Court of Human Rights. Politics is important to you, but in the end it is only daily stuffing that brings art into the background. You are undoubtedly a man of many talents. A few years ago you released a CD with politically engaged songs and published the thriller Operation Firebird. I have no doubt that in the future you will write again about the figurative or literal corpses from the closet on the Binnenhof. There's definitely a nice thriller in there. I'm sure it'll be an inexcusable bestseller. Wouter van Zandbrink. Since September 2014, you have been a member of the Upper House. You are an expert in rural development and were previously a member of Deputy States and Provincial States of Zeeland. You gave your maiden speech about the Act responsible growth dairy farming. A subject that is very close to your heart, as you grew up in your parents' dairy farming. In your maiden speech, you argued that the hierarchical direction of the government has partly made way for the management by citizens and businesses themselves and that regulation must be in line with this. You congratulated the sector and civil society organisations for taking responsibility in many cases. Your swan song was once again by the Milk Cattle Act. This time it was the AMvB on land-based growth. This decision called you a pivotal point in the development of dairy farming in the Netherlands and an important step towards a circular economy. As Chairman of the Delta Coalition, you will continue to work for an ecologically healthy and resilient agricultural sector. Gerrit Holdijk. Last but not least. And not without reason. Today we are also celebrating your 25th anniversary, which you have also really brought to the fore today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u6	That's why I'm calling you last. You were a member of this Chamber from 3 June 1986 to 23 June 1987 and then continuously since 11 June 1991. You are, to this day, the nestor of the First Chamber. In addition, you have been the chairman of the political group for 20 years from the 25 years you have been a Member of Parliament. No one can repeat that to you in the Chamber. In all respects, you were and are a constant factor. In addition to your work as a Member of Parliament, you were also active in the Provincial States of Gelderland for many years and you were a member of the SGP Group in the Lower House for many years. You described yourself as: "A simple lawyer with the outward appearance of a Veluwe farmer. I came on request and I'm leaving on request." At home in your hometown Uddel they didn't look strange when a bright orange tractor passed by with "Boer Gerrit" behind the wheel. Your contributions were always interesting and legally sound. You didn't like long speeches or lists. In your maiden speech on 1 July 1986 on the municipal reclassification of the Bommelerwaard, you stated that politics can often indicate how not to do so, but that it is much more difficult to say how it should ideally. In all these 25 years, you have made one motion to strengthen the position of shopkeepers in shopping centres that you did not think should be forced to open their shops on Sundays. That was a very important and fundamental point for you and your group. And that's also what you characterized. You never looked up the publicity yourself, because you didn't find it appropriate and you don't find it appropriate for a senator. As far as you're concerned, they have to operate in the luwte. In the first Rutte cabinet, according to the media, you were suddenly the most powerful man in the Netherlands and suddenly you were in the spotlights. You saw it quite differently yourself. You just did your job as a starting point: "If I find something wrong, I will vote against it. It's as simple as that." Typically, your response to a journalist's question was whether you felt more pressure now that everyone was looking at you. You replied, "With so much pressure on me, I will remain low to the ground." Your unique position at the time of the Rutte II cabinet led to the term "Holdijkproof." If a bill is Holdijkproof, it's a good one. As far as you're concerned, the arrival of the iPad should have been postponed until after your departure. However, you dealt professionally and always came to the ICT helpdesk on time if necessary. You also had good support for your wife here, who sometimes first indicated that there was something wrong with the conference app. There would be a lot of anecdotes left to tell about you. For example, about smoking the pipe, which even gave you the price of "Pijproker of the year 2014" and also led to a visit of the fire department to the First Chamber. But we won't say another word about that. Dear Gerrit, that I may speak to you today is very special. 'Cause in 2014, you got a tough message. A very serious disease had been diagnosed and the doctors gave you only a few months to live. You then, as you put it recently on SGP Party Day, said goodbye to life. Everyone thought of the worst. It's, like you said, a miracle of God that you're still alive, and that's how you're really living it. The operation was successful, the heavy chemo courses were allowed to pass and with a lot of ruffle on the benches you were again welcomed here in the plenary room by the colleagues. Unfortunately, today is the time to say goodbye to you as a Member of Parliament. It's also your silver anniversary. And that includes a very special gift, namely the silver cow. I think it's an honor and a pleasure to give it to you today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u7	I inform the Chamber that His Majesty has pleased the King, on the basis of the curricula vitae which has just been quoted, to award a royal award to a number of members who comply with the regulations for decorations. I have the honour of handing that award over to the people concerned. I therefore ask the following Members to stand up in the middle of the Chamber: Ms Dupuis, Mr Essers, Mr Franken, Mr Holdijk, Mrs Kneppers-Heijnert, Mrs Linthorst, Mrs Slagter-Roukema, Mrs Sylvester, Mr Thissen and Mrs Vlietstra. I would point out to the Members and the rest of the House that there will be ample opportunity in the Knight's Room to congratulate the decorated ones on their award shortly after the end of the sitting, starting at around 5 p.m. So not now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u8	I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u9	Madam President. What a special afternoon this weather is. I'm allowed to go through this for the second time now, but it's the first time with champagne. I think that's progress. I would also like to say that I am sorry that I could not be present from the start. There was an interinstitutional point; I had to be in the Lower House and the Upper House at the same time, so unfortunately I could join here a little later. Having said that, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to say a few things at this special sitting. Perhaps the most important conclusion is that from all the words spoken by the chairman this afternoon, you can deduce how much the First Chamber sits on top of the spirit of time and is in the midst of society. That is actually visible in two ways. To begin with, of course, with the good work that is done here in this beautiful room, and in the halls around it. We have already heard a list of them. But it is especially visible in the people who do that work, including the 35 farewell senators, whose christening booths are so striking this afternoon. It is 35 people who, however different and with different party political orientations, have in common that they do not view society, or at least not exclusively, from politics and from The Hague. Because membership of the First Chamber by definition leaves room for many other social activities. For me this is one of the special elements and perhaps also the great strength and the distinctive point of the First Chamber. That also comes back to the beautiful term "Chambre de réflexion." First MPs bring expertise and social experience. They also bring peace to the political business. The importance of this is perhaps not better and more beautifully expressed by anyone than by Willem Witteveen, whose absence is felt again today. His posthumously published book "De wet als kunstwerk" is actually one plea for thoughtfulness and quality in the legislative process. He already describes in the prologue that laws create order in society and in our thinking and doing. For good legislation, he says, three things are traditionally important: practical wisdom, knowledge of society and legal craftsmanship. I can only imagine that Willem Witteveen had the First Chamber on the retina when he wrote these words. It is a fact: in a democracy, the electorate is the boss. I see that this is a shock to some, but it is a fact. The electorate has determined that ruling with large and fixed majorities is something of the past. In any case, that is the case for the years immediately behind us and for the next four years ahead. However we judge this further, it is undeniable that this development has contributed significantly to the visibility of the First Chamber and the breadth of decision-making. This makes democracy more than half plus one. I think this is a profit for democracy. Of course, my judgment is not appropriate; I save it for other occasions. Today only suits me. That is why I would also like to express my appreciation today. I do so not only on my behalf, but also on behalf of all colleagues in the cabinet. We greatly appreciate the way in which the Upper House has wanted to cooperate with this government in recent years. Not because you have always made it so easy for us, sometimes not even, but because the debate could always be constructive and on the substance. Sometimes that was at the sharpness of the cut, but always with the eye on the ball. With all the major reforms that have landed in legislation in recent years still fresh on the retina, I can say that this has been done with a clear and, in my opinion, good result. This afternoon, of course, I particularly appreciate the 35 people who will not return to these trusted green benches after today. I hope they won't blame me if I thank all in one of them, namely Senator Gerrit Holdijk. Mr Holdijk, the chairman may say Gerrit, but I have always kept saying, Mr Holdijk, in fact you have shown for a quarter of a century in person what the First Chamber as a whole stands for, namely care and an independent judgment, for a sober view of matters and a healthy distance from the delusion of the day, for persuasiveness and for beliefs. And how beautiful the royal award is for you. Mr Holdijk, ladies and gentlemen, thank you all for your commitment and for the great commitment you have made in recent years. I wish everyone who is present here today as a Member of Parliament is the very best for the future. I would like to say to those Members who remain or who are going to fill the voids after today: the cabinet looks forward to working together in the knowledge that support from this house will not be taken for granted in the coming years, but must be recaptured on the basis of arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u10	I shall now give the floor to Mr Holdijk, who will speak on behalf of the outgoing Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u11	As usual, Madam President, I shall begin with the following words: Mr President, thank you for the floor. You have just reminded us that it is a long seat, and it has of course only gotten longer afterwards. I hope to contribute little to that. You and your predecessors seem to endure that long sitting effortlessly, better than most of us. Now 29 years ago, to be exact on 27 May 1986, Reverend H.G. Abma, then chairman of the SGP Group in this Chamber. He spoke at the meeting after the public meeting on the same day, on behalf of the six members of the Chamber who then said goodbye. I mention his name with honour, also because I took his place in the Chamber and am now also allowed to speak on behalf of the outgoing Members as the oldest in service. The President and his colleagues understand without further explanation why I, as a special privilege and, more personally, as a grace, have been given the opportunity to address you once again, Madam President, and through you to the Chamber. This time without speaking time and yet briefly. Unlike in 1986, not 6 but 35 Members from 9 different political groups are now saying goodbye, many of them old-timers and two Vice-Presidents. That is much, perhaps too much, for a Chamber that would like to represent continuity, stability and consistency as values. In any case, today I may be the spokesman for an unprecedented mixed group, even more colourful than the so-called rainbow group. Today we are talking about what is called in the agricultural sphere the keepers and the neighborhoods, with at least this big difference that the number of constitutionally established members will be back on track next week. In agriculture, the permanent decline in the number of farmers, that is to say, the neighborhoods, means an increasing decline in the rest. On behalf of the neighborhoods, if I may call them that, I would like to begin by saying that solidarity in our occasional group is so great that we sincerely regret the departure of those who do not leave voluntarily. There will undoubtedly be mixed feelings among the outgoing Members. A French saying says "partir, c'est mourir un peu" for a reason. Mixed feelings because those who have been allowed to serve this office for many years will be grateful and leave knowing that they have been allowed to serve their term and now consider their mission to be complete, from the realization that it is also a quality to leave in time. Mixed feelings because those who are only recently here may be disappointed because they haven't even had time to really get used to it. Mixed feelings because there will also be those that may be filled with some bitterness or pain because either their party has not re-elected them, or has given them a place on the list of candidates that they cannot return, or because there have been such political shifts that there is no place for them at the moment. Personally, and perhaps some colleagues recognize this, I have experienced the First Parliamentary Membership as reported by Livius regarding Cincinnatus. He was a Roman politician, consul in 460 BC, and even twice called a dictator by the Senate. For that vocation, as it were behind the team, his life was dedicated to agriculture. If and for as long as necessary, he was willing to serve the public cause upon request. After that task was completed, he said goodbye to return to his field and his ancestral estate. So some of the neighbors will return to their daily activities. Depending on their age, others may find their new life fulfillment. However, in all the differences in mood, we are grateful for the way in which you, President, have just described their contribution to the work of the Chamber. Those who have also been distinguished on behalf of the King would like you to convey their special thanks to the King. Congratulations to all the decorated members of our group. The outgoing members are due to the permanent members and each other's thanks. I refer to the good collective relations, but also to the cooperation that went beyond the various groups. Warm words are also in place for all experienced cooperation, without which we could not have done our work properly and with joy, to all services and persons, from the Registrar to those who served us in the coffee and mail rooms. Thank you, Mr President, for your kind words to us, but also for your impartial, cautious and sometimes decisive attitude at the meetings. I will also include the meetings of the College of Seniors. I would also like to thank the cabinet and the current and former rulers for the exchanges of views we were allowed to have here over time. As outgoing members, we have the greatest possible restraint when it comes to advice to the keepers and the new members. In any case, we must wish the new Chamber wisdom and wisdom so that both the constitutional and constitutional areas and the limits of constitutional powers will be closely monitored. I would like to add: let us also have a certain esprit guarding and storing the corps. More fundamentally, we hope that the Chamber will cherish the rule of law and not forget that a flower cut off from its roots is no longer a long life. I may end with a personal greeting to all the keepers, all the neighbors, all the newcomers and all those who work here daily. In everyday life we sometimes call each other in passing, without much thought, the greeting "aju" or "ajuus." That is a popular, stunned form of the French "adieu." A farewell greeting, a form of goodbye, which literally means: go with God. Maybe I may also give us all these words as a future wish: may God accompany you on your way of life. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u12	Thanks to the nestor of the First Chamber, Gerrit Holdijk. I have the pleasure to inform you that in May 2014 artist Mia Westerhof was asked to depict the building of the First Chamber from both sides. The result is two charcoal drawings. As Mia Westerhof himself explains: the scenic effect gives an atmospheric impression; a building that radiates security and stability, a building to remember. I would like to present the first copies to two former presidents who today say goodbye to the Chamber, Fred de Graaf and René van der Linden. May I ask you to step forward? All the outgoing members are getting one of these charcoal drawings today. Anyone may choose between an image of the building seen from the side of the Binnenhof or from the side of the court pond. Before leaving for the Knight's Room, you can make your choice at the counter at Sylvia Fromberg. At the end of the reception in the Knight's Room you can pick up a copy of the version you have chosen at the front desk of the First Chamber. But now I'd like to reach out the first copies to the two former presidents.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u13	I now give the floor to the Registrar for a brief domestic announcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u14	The end of a term of office is also accompanied by feelings of melancholy for the official organisation, the Griffin. We salute the Members who leave the Chamber today with great respect and warm feelings. In recent years, we have mainly targeted you with digital information. Today we would like to offer you all another paper product. We have compiled a photo booklet with many images from the period 2011-2015. This will be given to you as a reminder of this term of office of the First Chamber. I now offer the first copy to the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-eerstekamer-9.u15	The booklet with photos is there for all members, so not only for the departing. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of this sitting. Once again, I would like to thank everyone, especially the outgoing Members, for what they have meant in the Upper Chamber, not only as colleagues but also in their work as a member of the Upper Chamber. Therefore, when leaving the room there are flowers for all departing members. After closing the sitting, I invite all Members to take a group photo in this room. Maybe it'd be nice if the Prime Minister was in that picture too.
