ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-3.u2	Madam President. When preparing this bill in writing, my group asked a number of questions. We thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. My group agrees to pass on costs within the government. It is a cardigan pocket, but, as the Minister in the House of Representatives said, "one cardigan is not the other pocket." With regard to passing on to the private sector, my group wonders: what business interest is served by a security investigation? And why should the costs be passed on to the company? Our doubts on this point are reinforced by the fact that the company has no influence whatsoever on the safety investigation. The designation of a trust function, the research itself and the results of the research are entirely outside the company. With regard to the number of investigations, we wonder why this should be reduced. And why this way? Are there no other, better ways? For my group, these three questions are very important. That is why I would like to clarify them. Firstly, what is the obvious interest of a company in safety investigations in such a way that this justifies cost-sharing? From the documents we draw up that the Minister mentions five arguments. 1. The government provides national security as an umbrella over our country. Under this umbrella, companies can carry out their activities and make profits, but then they must also contribute to the burden. That's the Minister's statement. My group believes that we make security together: government and companies together. The government provides national security, the umbrella that protects all. To this end, the government has special powers that we do not want to give to individuals, including the security investigations. Companies ensure business safety. What that is, it's in their book. Everything has to be by the book. Companies must not go beyond their bounds. The booklet describes the task, the field of work, the instructions to the staff and the control of whether everyone abides by the book. All costs of staff, equipment, organisation and so on are borne entirely by the company. So it is not just the government that makes costs, quite the contrary. 2. The company has a specific interest in safety investigations, namely reliable and loyal staff as a result of thorough screening. But does the company need that, that unsolicited extra screening by the government? If it is good, business screening by the book is sufficient for the company. No extra driver's licenses for cars that the company doesn't have by the book. And if more screening is needed, the booklet can be expanded. Moreover, additional state screening does not generate any additional revenue nor any additional cost savings. 3. The company's customers benefit from the added safety that trust functions and safety investigations offer. In itself, that's right. But it's not just the customers of one company that benefit from national security. Everyone benefits from it, albeit at different times and in different places. That is why we call it national security; it protects us all. 4. The company pays almost all costs, only not the cost of trust functions designated by the Empire. So now you're gonna pull the leg and charge that last expense, too. This argument completely ignores the distinction between operational safety and national security. This gives rise to different tasks and powers for the Empire on the one hand and for companies on the other. The company pays the cost of operating safety. The Empire pays the cost of national security. These differences are ignored by this argument. I think it is wrong. 5. As a final argument, the comparison is made with the cost of a permit. My group believes that the comparison does not work. A permit is requested for one's own activities. Safety investigations are an activity outside the scope of the company. It's an AIVD investigation, entirely in the employee's private sphere. All in all, my group sees no obvious business interest. But we are happy to put it to the Minister in question: have we overlooked anything? Our second question may be brief. The company has no influence whatsoever on safety investigations. The designation of a trust function and the investigation are entirely in the hands of the government. Wouldn't the costs belong to the same government? Finally, our third question concerns the reduction in the number of applications. According to the documents, employers have an interest in a pool of people who have an VGB in order to be able to use such a person immediately in vacancies. We can imagine that this is necessary from the point of view of continuity. We can also imagine that leaving a vacancy will entail costs. These costs may be significantly higher than the rates charged by the research bill. Thus, this tariff arrangement is not an appropriate threshold. The criminalisation of non-registration of employees for trust functions is not very credible. Looks like an empty threat. In addition, we believe that there are two alternatives which could lead to a reduction in the number of applications. The most obvious is a sharper indication of trust functions. But also a shorter waiting time at the AIVD can prevent polar formation. Our final question is: is the Minister prepared to consider these alternatives further? We look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Let me start with the other side of the matter, which is getting more and more out of the picture these days. Concepts such as "Safety Service" and "Safety Research" sound very safe. The question is always what security they offer and for whom. In the course of history, concepts such as "security" and "stability" have often been used as arguments to keep to the old, even though that old was far from just. For the elite, it was mainly about her own safety against the people who were considered disgruntled and rebellious. On the other hand, the people asked for a different kind of security: protection against disadvantage and exploitation and, to that end, the construction of good community services. Unfortunately, prior to our welfare state, this kind of security was not offered or not provided enough by the traditional government. Later, in the years of the Cold War, security became the argument to hinder and punish people who had an unpleasant political view. Those people saw themselves as improvers of our society, but they were treated as the destroyers of it. In the Netherlands, this approach was less serious than in our eastern neighbours, where official professional bans on political opponents were strictly enforced. But also here, explorers were sent out with the argument of security within organizations that the government was displeasure, including political parties and trade unions. An important aim of this was that members of those organisations considered undesirable could be excluded as officials or as teachers. Sometimes, even from the Homeland Security Department, an extreme party was set up, with the aim of gathering difficult people in it, so that they could be better controlled. Efforts were also made to seriously disrupt people's private lives. Some municipalities were wise enough not to make use of this national security offer. I myself was able to work as a teacher and as an official because there were municipalities that deliberately did not cooperate in this type of security. In short, what one saw as a guarantee of our safety felt particularly unsafe to the other. Perhaps that feeling of insecurity was intended as a punishment for mistaken ideas for those who had to undergo it. It also led to the situation that people who were not allowed to become a postman or telephone technician for security reasons could be alderman or deputy. They could not become mayors only because of the Dutch system of appointment from above, which is very different from that in other European states. All forms of exclusion relied on a politically motivated selection process that took place against the background of the diversity of views existing within society. Does the government agree with me that this was a mistake, that caused unnecessary casualties, and that we should not want that situation back? Luckily, that time is over. When we talk about safety these days, we no longer think about punishing dissenting opinions. There are two other issues at stake. Firstly, we want to protect the government from bribery of individuals or connections to criminal networks. Secondly, it is also about combating targeted internal sabotage and cooperation in violent attacks aimed at destroying our society. This is a security effort that is also actively supported by the SP. Did this approach lead us to a problem-free situation? No way! It is an illusion that safety investigations are the solution for everything. Too wide application can lead to the same unnecessary professional bans as before. Everyone must be aware that a Dutch Muslim is only in exceptional cases a warrior of Al-Qaeda or ISIS, just as by far most Dutch Jews have nothing to do with the state apparatus of Israel or people of Surinamese origin should not be associated with past drug transports attributed to the current President of Suriname. Since 2007, the number of trust functions has decreased. The government notes that, despite this, there are still unnecessary safety investigations. It wishes to limit them to functions in which the national interest is at stake. The SP Group agrees with that. The question is how better pre-selection of the desirability of such studies takes place. In this bill, a financial threshold has been chosen. It seems to be more focused on austerity than security. Home Affairs is going to charge 10 million dollars to other government organisations. That's a matter of pocket pockets. An additional 6 million is a payment obligation for private contractors. All this is happening in the hope that the number of applications will decrease. There is the impression that, for the sake of their own flexibility, some companies unnecessarily set up a stock of "safe" people in order to be able to place them in a trust function later on. In the Lower House, the SP has insisted that those who pass through a security investigation should be entitled to an immediate appointment in the function in question, also in order to avoid lightly requesting investigations for the purpose of stockpiling. This seems to us to be a better way of reducing the number of safety investigations than applying a financial threshold. Why did the government turn against that direction of resolution? On the subject of state security, the preliminary discussion within my group raised a very different question. It is thinking of a different type of safety investigation which is less controversial and which is perceived as very useful by those concerned. To what extent can this bill be applied when it is not a matter of protecting state security, but of individual security? Then we are not thinking primarily of pilots who deliberately crash their passenger plane, but more about protection against child abuse by professionals and systematically misbehaving in health care. Unfortunately, there are many problems in this area. People who have abused their duties can be re-appointed elsewhere. In addition, international organisations working with volunteers, such as Doctors Without Borders, can deal with infiltration by saboteurs. We are talking about non-profit organisations, which may want security research into the environment of their employees, but certainly cannot afford to pay the costs. Shouldn't the government be offering targeted investigations for free? Finally, I am talking about the burden of proof. People cannot defend themselves against the suspicion that their private environment can be unsafe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-3.u4	I'm sorry I'm a little late to respond. Do I hear Mr Meijer now call for the possibility of the government providing free security investigations to anyone who so requests? Does he want, for example, employers in care to be able to track down potential employees on anything, but in particular things such as child abuse? That would surprise me, but if that is true, how does that relate to the FOG? I think it is a very radical measure which he proposes between the nose and the lips. So I'd like to hear more about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-3.u5	First of all, it is not a word between the nose and the lips, but the result of a discussion in my group. Secondly, Mrs De Boer talks about'research into everything'. That's not what I'm arguing for. I call for targeted research because of the well-known situations that have occurred in health care in recent years. For example, a well-known surgeon abroad could repeat the same mistakes he had made earlier in the Netherlands. We also know the professionals who would belong to child protection, but sometimes behave differently than they do. These events have raised that question. So I am not asking for a police state to be organized, quite the contrary. The first part of my speech makes it clear that I am not in favour of it at all. I would just point out that this bill does not provide for cases where something needs to be investigated to be safe and to meet the wishes of organisations that have a number of desires in this area. Moreover, voluntary organisations would not even be able to make the payment, although the government would agree and would consider these points to be appropriate. That's what I'm asking for attention to be given to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-3.u6	Then let me turn that "of all things" into "everyone." I believe that your proposal or your question implies that a safety investigation should be possible for everyone working in the care sector and for anyone working with children in one way or another. However, there are already several possibilities for when there are indications. So I think it is a very far-reaching proposal or idea, if I may say so. It does not make me very happy, but it is up to Mr Meijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-3.u7	The sides of which Mrs De Boer is not happy, I can imagine very well, because I am not happy with them either. There is, however, a real problem which my group does not believe is receiving sufficient attention. I shall return to the end of my speech. In Section D, Article 10, paragraph 1, a negative wording has been adopted which states that "a new safety investigation has not been able to provide sufficient data to establish that sufficient safeguards exist'. It does not, therefore, state that there should be sufficient data to establish that there are insufficient safeguards. The wording chosen may lead to arbitrariness. A ground for rejection is not based on a well-founded suspicion, but on insufficient evidence for certainty as to the absolute opposite. I'm afraid that security can't be proven for anyone. Then the obvious consequence is that there are actually no persons who can be appointed to a trust function with sufficient certainty. Because people need to become available for such functions, appointment becomes more a matter of trust. So do we trust the environment in which the person concerned grew up and is in, or do we not trust that environment? This can lead to a nineteenth-century form of neighborhood politics: you only trust those who are of "good birth," only the children of those you already know because they belong to your own circle, to "our kind of people." That is why I have a question for the government. Is there not a risk that only those who already belong to a trusted "inner circle" and who are therefore rightly or wrongly considered above any suspicion in advance will be eligible to meet the required requirements? Is a different wording therefore no longer obvious, namely the exchange of the terms "sufficient" and "insufficient"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the "base for passing on costs related to conducting safety investigations." This means that the cost of security investigations for trust functions will now be borne by the relevant departments and, where appropriate, by private companies. This sounds reasonable, but the proposal, in the opinion of the PVV Group, creates unnecessary bureaucracy. If the government designates security functions, of course safety investigations are included. These costs may as well be borne from the Home Affairs budget. Where private companies are concerned, the PVV would like to know what the impact will be. Is this going to be a burden on business or is it going to be a matter of trust in private companies to do business with the government? In the latter case, the costs of the security investigations will undoubtedly be recovered from the government via invoices. If the additional costs for industry are to lead to fewer security investigations, the PVV would like to know from the Minister what the consequences for security and integrity are. It is of the utmost importance that we take due account of the importance of trusting positions in many crucial public administration posts and everything related to them. Safety costs money. This is reflected in the documents sent to us by the Minister. We all understand that. We are now seeing a shift or, in fact, a passing-through. It is, as others have already indicated, cardigan pocket pocket, shifting a post at Home Office to third parties. If that happens within the government, we wonder what the point is. It gets more urgent when it comes to companies. All of a sudden, they're gonna have to pay for themselves. Everyone who has worked in business knows that a company prefers to have as few accounts as possible. It's very simple. In addition, a company already pays almost all the costs itself. All operational safety costs are of course already borne by the company, only not the cost of trust functions designated by the Empire. In our opinion, this is a matter of national security and therefore belongs to the national authorities. My group's fear is that companies are going to be a little lighter about safety functions and confidence functions and that they will say: let's not do this for a moment, because that way we can reduce costs. The opinion of the Council of State is also critical. For example, it is argued that introducing a cost incentive with the sole aim of reducing the number of trust functions can lead to the undesirable effect that the employer underestimates or undervalues the risk of vulnerable functions within his organisation for financial reasons, so that the trade minister will not be able to identify the threats to national security and will wrongly refrain from designating trust functions. With the Council of State, we consider this possible side effect undesirable. This only increases the concerns of my group. I would like an answer from the Minister to the question of how he will ensure that functions which should be trust functions from the point of view of national security are also designated as such and will not disappear from this list for cost reasons. We await the Minister's reply with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-3.u9	Mr. Chairman. During the written examination of this bill, many questions and comments have already been raised regarding the need and the desirability of passing on the costs of conducting safety investigations to stakeholders. I would like to draw attention to the contribution of my own group and, in particular, to that of the VVD, which expressed the greatest hesitation in the basis of this proposal. Other groups too were not unsatisfied. The government has been able to respond to all these comments. Thank you for that; I do not intend to repeat all that. I shall confine myself to two points, which are crucial for my group's final assessment of the legislative proposal. Firstly, I come back to the objectives of this bill and the way in which the government has motivated it. In the reply, the Minister for the Interior acknowledged that he had caused confusion by arguing in the oral procedure in the Lower House a battle different from what was claimed in the documents. The reply to the provisional report of this Chamber restores this; at least the Minister makes an attempt to do so. I am sorry to note that this attempt has not yet been fully successful. Fortunately, this plenary debate is also part of the legal history, insofar as it will actually come to a law. So we can jointly make a final enlightenment hit. That clarification of the motive of the bill is necessary. In plain terms: is it money or is it less security investigations and less confidence? And is one thing compatible with another? The Minister describes the limitation of the use of public funds by the AIVD and the STUDY to pass on the costs for security investigations to the applicants, as the primary purpose of the bill. During the time when this bill was born, more than two years ago, there was, of course, a certain urgency: the Minister had agreed to a substantial cut in the AIVD when this cabinet was in office. He will have thought: all the bits help, including those few million that can be earned by passing on safety investigations; I do not want to marginalize it too much, but it is not about hundreds of millions. So far it is understandable, irrespective of whether passing on in the present case is desirable. A second, thus less important objective, is, according to the response, to reduce the number of trust functions and safety investigations. Elsewhere in the reply, the Minister refers to this as "the underlying objective," which does not directly promote clarity. The Minister expects that the aspect of the cost overcalculation will give greater consideration to the need to identify functions as trust functions. A sharper indication, as I read, will lead to a decrease in the number of trust functions. The latter is undoubtedly true, but the question is what this has to do with passing on costs. In the same documents, the Minister also refers to the new guidelines for safety investigations, which have recently been introduced. This guidance is based on the so-called "closing concept": if everything has been done physically and organizationally to ensure safety around work processes, there may still be residual risks where damage to national security remains possible. In this case, a function can be designated as a trust function and a safety investigation is indispensable. I would like to quote the Minister once again: 'Only designation of trust posts if there is a real need for this in the context of national security'. If so, how can the legal basis for passing on the costs of a safety investigation be relevant to the designation of a trust function? It is the trade minister who must indicate in his or her domain whether a function, including in the private sector, should be regarded as a trust function. For that, I would think, but one criterion is relevant, namely whether or not the residual risk of damage to national security is present. That residual risk is not determined by the price of a safety investigation, I think. However, the Minister writes in the same reply that "computing costs to the employer will provide an incentive to keep an eye on the need for designation in the appointment of confidence posts." Can the Minister really follow this? If the costs are an important factor in the test of whether or not a function should be a trust function, then it seems that national security is no longer the only justification for this? Does the Minister consider that, so far, there has been too easy classification of functions as trusting posts which are not actually because they do not know the residual risk? Is that then to be blamed for his fellow ministers, who, after all, have to check the applications sufficiently, or the private employers who want to have everyone screened? And would that happen by asking for an amount of €85 in future, which is the cheapest version; the more expensive versions cost up to over €1,000 in the future then suddenly no longer happen? I would appreciate it if the Minister would take the last opportunity he has to explain this 'underlying objective' as he put it once more and answer our questions very clearly. I would also like to receive a further explanation as to why the Minister does not agree with our suggestion that the so-called 'pooling' should be countered by the condition that only those who are actually supposed to occupy the confidence function should be subject to a security investigation. The Minister fears, I believe, a great bureaucratic burden, but this can be checked on a random basis and provided for a preventive administrative sanction. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. My second and final point concerns the cost transfer itself. Here are two ways of thinking possible. One is that charging costs for government acts or services necessary for national security is incorrect, as this is a core task of the government. The cost of this core task is borne by the general budget, so taxes, regardless of whether it happens to be convenient for an employer as well. The other reasoning is that a contribution may be requested from the employer concerned because there is a certain private benefit in this case. Application of the principle of profit. If that benefit can be constructed, it is then again the question of whether the full cost of the service can be charged or only part of it, because there are also matters of general interest at stake. The government opts for the last argument in this proposal, but hardly motivates it. To date, safety investigations have not been passed on and there has been a kind of tacit agreement that this could not be dealt with because of the nature of the public service. My group tends to find that still, but is happy to be convinced of the opposite. However, the justification for limiting the use of public funds is insufficient. Is it not true that all public transactions should be limited as much as possible? Although I am generally charmed by pragmatic views, the Minister's reasoning in the documents goes too far in this respect. His statement that the balancing or passing on of costs is possible and appropriate depends to a large extent on the specific characteristics of a particular domain, the specific type of target group that operates in it and the chosen policy objectives. And whether that is not enough pragmatism, the Minister adds further practical arguments: such as the costs for the government and the burden on citizens and businesses that a system of calculation entails. So many different interests play a role, the Minister concludes, and I fear that he is actually sending us, undoubtedly unintentionally, with a blink of an eye. In other words, the government does not have a policy of passing on the costs of public services and transactions and that it is always considered what is convenient and sensible. In a sense, that sounds like legal arbitrariness. It is also interesting that, according to the Minister, the question of whether citizens have a freedom of choice to use or refrain from a public service does not play a role. My group would believe that, in general terms, this could be a justification and therefore a motive for further calculation. This leads me to invite the government to consider this more general issue of applying the principle of profit and passing on the costs of public services and actions to citizens and businesses this year. That consideration could include a policy framework with important criteria for deciding whether or not to establish a legal basis for specific forms of passing on public costs. I believe there is a need for such a policy framework, both in government and in parliament and among citizens. For the economic activities of the government, the Market and Government Act provides a clear basis for the question of whether and to what extent the costs of economic activities of the government should be passed on, but there is virtually nothing for action in the context of the public service remit. That, I think, is one of the reasons why discussions about passing on police charges around paid football and other commercial events continue to this day. We haven't really given it any more structural thought. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. If necessary, I will table a motion on this point in the second term, but first, of course, I will be interested to hear the Minister's first-term replies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-3.u10	Mr. Chairman. Listening to Mr De Graaf, I come to the conclusion that my contribution is very much in line with his, but let us assume that repetition is the strength of the message. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is not opposed in principle to passing on costs of public services to citizens and businesses. However, in this legislative proposal we have the necessary reservations which have not been removed by answering our written questions. Where previously two objectives of the bill have been identified, namely to generate revenue for the government and to reduce the number of security investigations, the Minister makes it clear in the reply that the primary purpose of the bill is to limit the use of public funds. This raises the necessary questions. First of all, how much is this bill going to cut public funds? The proceeds from the private sector's transfer could be $9 million, I read. I do not consider the passing on to other authorities, because this cannot be seen as limiting the use of public funds. However, it is not clear how much the implementation of the law will cost, and therefore what the net yield is. It is also unclear why these costs have now been charged. If the aim is to limit the use of public funds, it would be obvious to start with an overview of all the public costs that could in principle be passed on, and then to release a substantive test and a cost-benefit analysis. Why has such an analysis not been made? At least we don't know it. And why exactly was this calculation chosen? Why are the costs of security investigations being passed on, for example, for police deployment at events, football matches and evacuations not? Which public services lend themselves to passing on, and which do not? Everyone will agree that costs of services that are mainly provided in the interests of citizens or businesses can be passed on. But what about costs incurred in the general interest or in the general interest? And does it matter whether a citizen or company is obliged to take the service, or does it voluntarily? Does the Minister agree with us that the more general interest there is, the less legitimate it is to pass on costs and that it is less likely to pass on costs if the government requires the purchase of the service? If we apply both criteria to the safety investigations, it does not seem appropriate to pass on them directly. Safety investigations are carried out mainly for national security purposes and a greater public interest is hardly conceivable. In addition, it is often required to have a safety investigation carried out. I would therefore like to ask the Minister once again to explain on the basis of which criteria were chosen to calculate precisely the cost of security investigations. I come to the secondary objective of the proposal: to reduce the number of safety investigations. Formulating this objective implies that too many investigations are now being carried out in the view of the Minister. Is that right? If so, what is he basing himself on? And if not, why is it set as an objective that the number of studies can be reduced? Another question is whether creating a financial threshold is the right way to limit the number of security investigations now that it is ministers who designate the functions for which a security investigation is necessary. Logically, you limit the number of investigations by identifying fewer functions as minister. We understand that this will also be done through the strengthened guidance guidance on trust functions. It is not clear why a financial threshold should also be set. And how can taxation at all lead to fewer investigations if the application for an examination for the designated functions is compulsory? When I read the legislative dossier, I get the impression that there is a very specific problem at the root of this bill, namely the large number of security investigations requested for the purpose of pooling civil aviation and its costs. I get the impression that the Minister is trying to tackle this very specific problem with a very generic measure. In the opinion of my group, you will have major problems with the justification of the measure. There are also problems in this case. I come to my conclusion. With this proposal to pass on the cost of safety investigations, the Minister presents a proposal which is poorly motivated and whose effectiveness is questionable. I would like to invite the Minister to come up with proposals at the levels at which this can be effective. On the one hand, propose a general framework setting out criteria for the passing on of public service costs on the basis of which subsequent calculation proposals can be made............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Because we agree that the latter poses a problem, not only because these security investigations cost money, but also because unnecessary investigations violate the privacy of unnecessarily many people. However, we are not convinced that a financial threshold will solve that problem. We look forward to the Minister's reply with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-3.u11	Mr. Chairman. It is perhaps appropriate that I apologise to previous spokesmen, except Mrs De Boer, because I have not been able to hear them. They would like to be assured that this is not related to a lack of interest in their contribution. I am sorry at that time, due to personal circumstances, that I was unable to take part in the written preparation of the legislative proposal before us. In the meantime, I have been able to learn about the pieces that have been exchanged. There has gradually been some doubt as to whether I could support this proposal. And it is for that reason that I think it is right to put that doubt on the table here, not because I would think I could add so many new elements to the discussion, certainly not because I missed part of the discussion this morning. The bill provides, inter alia, that the costs associated with carrying out a security investigation in the performance of a trust function are charged to the public or private employer. This cost calculation results primarily from the aim of developing a more stringent designation policy so as to reduce the number of trust functions and thus the number of safety investigations. The number of trust functions has doubled in five years since the entry into force of the Safety Investigation Act in 1997. Since 2007, as a result of the new Guide designation trust functions, there has been a decline. However, according to the government, the importance of the bill lies in limiting or further reducing the still large and growing social need for "screening" of staff. We will agree that the designation of trust functions and associated security investigations should serve national security and thus vital interests. It is against this background that the dual objective of the legislative proposal raises fundamental concerns for me. The first objective mentioned by the government is the AIVD's and STUDY's calculation of the cost of security investigations. This is considered to be a primary objective. This corresponds to the explanatory statement which stresses that the conduct of security investigations involves public resources and that, at the present time, an efficient use of those scarce resources is more than necessary. I could add: as if that were not ever necessary. That sounds like a simple austerity target. The following is added to this statement of reasons in the reply to this Chamber: "A financial incentive is the most effective. Otherwise preventing and combating unnecessary safety investigations is difficult and very labour-intensive." The second objective is to reduce the number of trust functions and the associated number of safety investigations by means of a sharper designation by the trade union minister as regards the designation of trust functions. It is repeatedly stated in the response to this Chamber that pricing remains desirable, even if the number of confidence functions falls structurally as a result of a strengthened new guidance. This government position underlines once again that the primary objective of cost transfer is the primary objective. I agree with the Council of State that introducing a cost incentive for the sole purpose of reducing the number of trust functions could lead to the undesirable effect that the employer underestimates or undervalues the risk of vulnerable functions within his organisation for financial reasons, so that the trade minister will not be able to identify the threats to national security and will wrongly refrain from designating trust positions. Given the nature of trust functions and the importance of national security in the designation of trust functions, I consider this possible side effect undesirable. It is the combination of both objectives that makes me suspicious of the proposal. For the sake of clarity, I have no objections in principle to the application of the principle of profit. That principle is briefly addressed in the reply. Cost accounting is generally considered legitimate when it comes to the provision of services by the government, such as a passport or a statement of behaviour. The costs of certain forms of authorisation, such as licences, exemptions or approvals, can also be passed on. With these examples, a safety investigation is not easy to compare, so I want to avoid it. This is already very clear when it comes to public functions where, unlike perhaps a private employer, there is no economic interest at stake. My reservations about the undesirable effects of a financial incentive are not reinforced at this time, at least it has not yet been found that the criminalisation of non-application is generally applied. In short, even if the introduction of a financial incentive would be the most effective, I am not convinced that it is the right instrument in the context of national security. Of course, I will listen with interest to the reaction of the government to my contribution and, above all, to that of the other spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-eerstekamer-3.u12	I note that none of the Members wishes to speak in the first term. Then we have come to the end of the first term.
