ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u1	I would like to welcome all those present. I would, of course, like to welcome the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment in particular to this debate on ProRail. Ten speakers have come forward. The first speaker is so enthusiastic that he is already ready. It is agreed that, in the first term of the Chamber, a maximum of three interruptions are made per person, consisting of a question and a follow-up question. It can always be less. Then we'll suspend for dinner break. This one starts a little later. In this way we can combine the dinner break and the preparation of the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u2	Mr. Chairman. About 1.1 million people use the train every day. Although they travel with NS or Arriva, the course of the journey depends on how the track is located. ProRail maintains the switches and sharpens the tracks. This is an important task. In 2011 the Dutch parliament decided to investigate the railway in the Netherlands. The conclusion was that the level in the Netherlands is high, that the track is safe and that the trains run on time compared to the rest of Europe. But there were long-term concerns. 29 recommendations were therefore followed. Among other things, there was a need for a long-term vision and a firmer position of the Ministry. In addition, the contracts with NS and ProRail had to be settled and a new security system had to be introduced. All conclusions were taken on board. All the recommendations have been implemented, but some of them are still up-to-date. There are improvements particularly in the field of knowledge at ProRail and the Ministry. Today I want to discuss the progress of ProRail and the Ministry and I will also discuss the maintenance of the rail and the money for that maintenance. ProRail indicates in its annual report that an action has been launched to improve information provision. ProRail knows for itself that it can do better. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State what actions are currently under way to improve information provision. In addition, we ask whether there are any risks that are not reflected in the annual report or in other reports. When ProRail violated the law when contracting maintenance, this was reported internally. That's lucky in an accident. There was no explicit communication with the Ministry about this failure. It was only after the Supervisory Board did, that an investigation started. We would like to hear what considerations have played a role in the decision to close the investigation before informing the Court of Justice about it. ProRail itself notes that due to the large amount of legislation and rules he has to comply with, there is always a chance of violating rules. So the question is whether there is sufficient alertness. What is being done to minimise the risk of breaking the law? There is still a lot of work to be done in order to better control the finances. Is there enough financial knowledge at ProRail to get control of the greenhouse? Can the Secretary of State outline the path that is still to go? Can it indicate how it will implement the recommendation to increase knowledge at ProRail and at the Ministry? Then I'll come to the maintenance of the track. Good maintenance is the basis of a safe track, but it must also be done efficiently. Previously, all rails, switches and overhead lines were replaced according to a fixed schedule, regardless of whether this was actually necessary. That's like going to the garage with the car and not doing it after maintenance. However, a number of parts were replaced according to the schedule. Luckily, that comparison doesn't work anymore. Now contractors are responsible for a safe track. How they organise this is their business: the more efficient, the more profit they make. This step, from planned to replacement of any rail and exchange bolt to steering on performance, safety and cost of parts with a certain life cycle, ensures savings. For years too much has been paid for maintenance and that explains the dissatisfaction of market players about this. Yet there is more to it: ProRail must know what the track is. Those data need contractors to perform the maintenance properly and knowledge is required in order to be able to effectively steer. As the director of ProRail himself said, there is not enough knowledge in the house. That's exactly the point the PvdA is concerned about when it comes to purchasing maintenance: how can you know what you're buying if you don't know what you're purchasing? We would like to hear from the Secretary of State how it is prevented that the discipline of market forces, cost reduction and outsourcing will help the Dutch long-term track of rain in the drip. How does the Secretary of State judge the fact that the law has been broken by ProRail? What scope does the right of tender allow to apply long deadlines for maintenance contracts or to carry out work itself or in co-production to gain knowledge? I come now to the money for maintenance. The amount ProRail intends to spend on railway management and maintenance is higher than the subsidy available in the coming years. For every €100 ProRail wants to issue, there are only €97 available. Building a new station and opening a new railway line are more attractive than maintaining a switch and grinding a railway arc. However, the latter two are crucial and that is why we spend a lot of taxpayers' money on this in the Netherlands. Nevertheless, the budgets for maintenance do not seem sufficient. There are ideas to save on that. Can the Secretary of State state state what solution it envisages to resolve this impasse? There seemed initially to be a deficit of 1.1 billion and this later became 475 million. Why did the Secretary of State have an extensive investigation done before sending a letter to the Chamber? I want to end where I started. That is with the recommendations of the Temporary Committee on Maintenance and Innovation rail. I would like to mention a recommendation: the House of Representatives should weigh its own questions for short-term solutions to rail problems against the long-term perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u3	This is a nice college of the Labour Party on the track. Mr Hoogland has requested this debate himself. Two weeks ago, we were standing here together and he said that this had to be kept very quickly. Is what Mr Hoogland has just put forward here the reason why he wanted the debate so quickly in his name? I do not hear any urgent questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u4	The answer is yes. I asked for the debate before the summer. It was about the maintenance contracts, on which I also asked a number of questions. A number of other issues have also been raised, which I would like to mention in my contribution. In the end, it was the choice to plan the debate quickly. The whole room agreed on that. We have now discussed this procedure, but I do not find that very interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u5	I shall then go into more detail so that it may be interesting for Mr Hoogland. Can he say anything about how the information was provided by the Ministry to the Chamber? Doesn't the PvdA have any critical questions about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u6	If Mr Van Helvert had listened carefully to my speech, he would have heard that I had asked two questions about it. For example, I asked about the considerations that have played a role. So as far as that goes, my input was clip-and-ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u7	I am not only curious about the comments made by the Secretary of State, but I am also curious about Mr Hoogland's opinion on the report which the Supervisory Board refused to send to the Chamber and which we had to learn about in the media. I refer to the report published in De Telegraaf and which we received today. I have two questions. What does Mr Hoogland think about the fact that this report was not proactively shared by the organisation with the Chamber? What does he think of the content of that report?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u8	That's a lot of questions. I don't think this report itself contains much news. I myself read ProRail's annual report. As a general rule, the report shows a little more detail than that annual report indicates that there is room for improvement. I have also asked a number of questions about this. With regard to the failure to send the report to the Chamber, I believe it has now been sent at the request of the Chamber. This is an internal management report from someone who no longer works at ProRail and who has performed a number of ad-Interim activities there. We have to make choices here about how we want to steer on the track. And I kind of ended up with that, too. I don't think we can discuss every detail of every report here. We must confine ourselves to that dot on the horizon. We have discussed this point on the horizon in detail here, together with all of us, and that is the Long Term Track Agenda, which we ourselves have asked for as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u9	I'm a little surprised about this. Perhaps Mr Hoogland has a much better information position than the rest of the Chamber. Has Mr Hoogland read in the annual report that material adjustments should be made to the reports and annual figures, that after four weeks, a dossier could only be drawn up on where the 20 million had remained, that half of the financial staff is not good enough, that there is a worrying quality of the subsidy accountability, that effective monitoring of progress and well-founded forecasts are available, that Excel spreadsheets were used on local computers and that fraud cannot be ruled out because financial manageability is not in order? Doesn't he find anything new in that report?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u10	I would point out that we are holding the debate here on the broad lines. Of course, those facts are serious. Of course, improvements need to be made. However, on the basis of every report written by a member of staff working at ProRail, there are 3,200 of them, I say from my main point of view. That is why it is right that we should confine ourselves to the main points. That is why it is good that a number of improvements are being launched and I would like to hear what they look like.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u11	Mr Hoogland began his speech with the report of the Chicken Commission. One of the conclusions was that the money flows were not transparent. The appeal of the Chamber to the Ministry was therefore: make those money flows transparent. What's my surprise? Last year, in the summer of 2014, it was already clear that ProRail was facing a huge deficit of possibly EUR 1.1 billion. The Secretary of State did not send this information to the Chamber until the last budget, so a few weeks ago. What does Mr Hoogland think of that? He has not just answered the questions of colleagues, but I hope he will answer them now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u12	I asked what considerations played a role in this. If a company, in this case ProRail, receives subsidies from tax money, which ultimately comes from money that we all have to distribute, comes up with the story that there is a shortage of a certain size, then I can imagine that you push it back first, and says: I'm not going to immediately pull the wallet, you will first look at creative solutions. I can imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u13	Mr Hoogland was just talking about main lines and the dot on the horizon. Now an amount of 1.1 billion does not appear to be significant. It wasn't reported to the Chamber. You can at least inform the Chamber that from the perspective of ProRail, from the perspective of the people who know it, there is probably too little or too little budgeted. However, the Secretary of State never informed the Chamber about this. In fact, ProRail talked about a period from 2013 to 2028. Then you can't insist that if we deal with the 2015 budget, you won't send that information to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u14	Then there was information. At that time, the budget was already much smaller, as you call it. The problem has been reduced in this respect. It is only a question of whether additional debates in the Chamber would have helped. I also understand the question; Mr Bashir would have liked to know. That is a legitimate question, and I asked it. What were the reasons for reducing the amount first, resolving the problems and then informing the Chamber? There are also 11 proposals for how we can deal with this. That is what I like to debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u15	Over the last few months, it's turned out to be a financial mess at ProRail. It is about taxpayers' money and I do not really hear from the PvdA that there is something real going on. It is actually business as usual, when I hear Mr Hoogland like that. I have here an overview of the news reports from the last few days. That's 92. Has Mr Hoogland been following the news lately, or does he not know what the debate is about?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u16	I have made a number of points on which we are critical. Of course, the presentation of things that the PVV gives, namely that it is a great chaos, cannot be true. That is not the case. We need to look at things a little bit in perspective. A number of reports have been released that give a nuanced picture. Improvements are needed in a number of areas, but in a number of areas things are just as well. In 2011, the Chamber, which also had a representative of the PVV, established that. So let us not conclude too quickly that it is all wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u17	There are many examples of leaked reports showing that the control fails. We see there's a lack of financial records at ProRail. There may be fraud; this cannot be ruled out. There are millions of deficits, rising to a deficit of up to 1.1 billion. That's not nothing. For years the trains are not able to drive properly because there is overdue maintenance. There's concrete rot on the Betuwe line. It's such a huge series of examples of a failing government, that I want to hear from the PvdA spokesperson whether he thinks there's something special going on, or that we can go on as we are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u18	There's definitely something special going on. We are debating a series of issues here. I mentioned a number of them, and Mr Madlener mentioned a number of them. We don't do that for nothing. We do that because things have to be better. However, the Chamber itself found that the Dutch track was in order. To take as a starting point that it is a great chaos, I go too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u19	I don't have the impression that it's a big mess, and I don't think we should have all the reports and reports of an employee. However, does Mr Hoogland share my view that the second progress report is not just a report? The client is H. Alders, chairman of the Supervisory Board, and the contractor is Eelco de Boer bv. Does Mr Hoogland think that this is just a report by one of the 3,300 employees? How does he see this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u20	This report gives an idea of the internal state of affairs at ProRail. The report is not the most important report for us. We have the management concession. We control ProRail remotely. I think it is right that the Supervisory Board should keep its finger on the pulse and shape the improvement actions. That's why I'm asking what they look like. What does the path to better financial administration look like at ProRail? Can we understand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u21	Can I say, then, that this is a report that Mr Hoogland would have liked to have? Can I say that it's a little unpleasant that it took us a very long time to get it at all? We only get it an hour before the debate. Don't you think it's too late?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u22	I'll leave that qualification on your behalf. It's important that we get all the information we need. The question is then always how you look at it, that is always a point of contention in this Chamber. It's a good thing the reports are there now. We should not exaggerate by saying that we need every internal report of ProRail for our work, because then we will ultimately do what we pay the Supervisory Board and the Director of ProRail for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u23	Thank you very much, Mr Hoogland. I see that Mrs Van Veldhoven wishes to put another question to Mr Hoogland.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u24	I am a little surprised at the way in which Mr Hoogland downplays the findings of the report in the newspaper today and removes it with 'there was something about it in the annual report, actually I knew it all'. I've been reading it. The annual report states that in 2014 the Board stresses the importance of communicating the project progress to the Ministry in a timely manner and of balancing policy ambitions and available resources. I think it is very good that Mr Hoogland says that ProRail's fraud resistance is not in order, that the project cycle is not in order and that the tax money spent by ProRail is not properly administered. How well can Mr Hoogland read between the lines that he gets it all out? I'd like to take a course with him sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u25	Mrs Van Veldhoven's quote will undoubtedly be included in the annual report. Whatever it says, I'm paraphrasing it for a moment because I don't have it in front of me. That is not as profound as the quotes that Mrs Van Veldhoven mentions, but it is indeed in it. That is why we are asking questions and holding this debate. That is why I am glad that we are doing so now. It is also a fragile balance between which the Chamber should steer and not steer. Hence the final quote in my contribution. The Chamber wants to know, we have the report now and it's important that the Secretary of State indicates the future of the financial administration. It's got to be solid.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u26	Then it is very much a question of whether the PvdA, Mr Hoogland, believes that the Chamber should only get that information when the Chamber itself asks for it, when the Chamber itself draws between the lines from this kind of overflowing descriptions that there may be something serious going on. Or is there also a responsibility of the Secretary of State to proactively inform the Chamber of where problems have been identified and what are the solutions proposed for them? Is that with her or is that with ProRail? So the question is: should the Chamber be proactively informed, or does it depend on our interpretation of this kind of texts of annual reports?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u27	I can answer with one word: yes, it must be done on the basis of Article 68 of the Constitution, out of my mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u28	In line with the previous question. May or should ProRail in some cases keep bad news to itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u29	I'm not a ProRail. You really won't be able to ask me this question. ProRail must carry out work according to mandate, report to the Ministry in the annual report and therefore I ask how this information will be provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u30	I trust that there will be more information than an annual report. How does Mr Hoogland see that? Should every case of bad news be reported to the Chamber quickly, or should it wait until the next annual report?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u31	We're not gonna write ProRail's annual report here. It is important that there is a proper report, I have already mentioned this several times. The question is always when it is time to bring things out and when amounts are so sure and hard that you do so. That tension is always there. That is why we have requested the document and are asking questions about how this financial administration can be put in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u32	First of all, it is remarkable that the Labour Party is doing everything it can to keep up appearances that nothing is going on and nothing has happened. What does the PvdA think about ProRail's clear statement to the Ministry from 2012, for example when applying for grants, that there are problems and that there is not enough money, and that we have actually only heard from the Secretary of State, from this cabinet, until recently, that there was nothing going on and that everything would be budget neutral? What does the PvdA think of this kind of information, if you sell it against the reports that we recently received and which were also published on De Telegraaf's website last night?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u33	Mr Van Helvert asked me to give him my opinion, but I asked him a question. I can also imagine that the problem will be reduced first. I remember a minister from Mr Van Helvert's party, Camiel Eurlings. When ProRail was asked to do something with the bills and ProRail replied that it was far too expensive and it couldn't afford it, he said: boys, you get a grant, find out for yourself first. I also see this trend in the solution of the problem in the first instance. ProRail comes to the Ministry with the announcement that it has a problem. Then the first reaction is: guys, let's just go around the table first to fix that. That's what you're a driver for. That you don't go straight to your own supervisor, there's something to say. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State to the question of how she has come to the choice of doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u34	It is not the functioning of Mr Eurlings that is central here, but rather that of the current Secretary of State. That's why I'm asking what the PvdA thinks. Mr Hoogland is a representative of the people. As early as 2012 ProRail indicated in applications for subsidies that there were financial deficits and that we must now say that there are budgetary tensions from Mr Alders, and the Secretary of State says to the Chamber that everything is still budgetaryly neutral. I may understand that the Secretary of State does not immediately put everything on the table, but naming that everything can still be budget neutral is a completely different form of information, isn't it? Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u35	That is also the question of whether it can be budgetaryly neutral. I think that is a very relevant question. Then you will also come to the measures that have been sent equally to the Chamber. So there is not only a problem here. A number of solutions have also been provided. One of the solutions we all know is to do maintenance during the day. That is a complicated choice, because it affects the timetable. I would be happy to discuss this with Mr Van Helvert, if that means that the meeting will be held for the coming years. I think we should have that discussion here in the near future. That is why I asked you to indicate what the improvement process looks like, the route to ensure that these budgets are ultimately sufficient to carry out that maintenance properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u36	It is well known that in this type of debate on rail, the SP Group wants to start more often the discussion on rail planning, the discussion on why we separated ProRail and NS and whether we should not bring it back together. It is a coincidence that last August an article was published in the magazine of the PvdA, Socialism and Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u37	Look, you read it. I had previously suggested it to Mr Bashir. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u38	That article supports that. So that's good news. What am I supposed to conclude from this? Does this mean that the PvdA Group is up? Is the PvdA Group, like the SP Group, for merging NS and ProRail and bringing them under the direct responsibility of the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u39	"Om" is the wrong word. We have always been in favour of merging NS and ProRail, bringing it closer together. However, we also have a practical objection to this. That is a realistic objection. If we are going to do that now and we say that it seems very easy here 'hup, put it together' all the energy from those companies will merge in the coming years. That is what we cannot use in this sector right now. We are therefore saying that it is a good thing that they cooperate more and that investments are seen together. It is good that they are now working together, because in the end these tracks are very closely connected to what is going on over them. Doing so now, however, is too easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u40	That is where Mr Hoogland himself began to discuss the report of the Chicken Committee. Before that, we have talked about direction on the track. Every time we come to the conclusion that both the Ministry and the Chamber are behind the facts. Why is that? That is because the track has been set at a distance, because we no longer have eyes on it and no longer know what is happening. We will only be informed afterwards and then it will be too late to adjust. And what does the PvdA's own magazine say? That says: we actually agree with the SP, we need to see how we can combine it and create more synergy. I hear a different sound here from the PvdA Group, namely: we agree with it, but we do not. I don't understand. Either you're ahead of us, and then we're gonna work on getting the track back together, getting direction back, or you're against it. What is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u41	This is where I recognize the SP: either you're in favour or you're against it. It's a little more complicated than that. Mr Bashir himself has already said that distance travel is a problem. However, this is not solved by merging the two companies. This means that the distance between the government and those two companies is still the same. So it's too easy to say: let's bring it closer, because it's set at a distance. That's not necessarily the solution. Mr Bashir himself also says that bringing the two companies closer together is really something other than bringing it in. So that is a complicated discussion and we cannot just settle it here in a few moments. That is why I think we should leave it at that, otherwise we will be discussing the structure for hours to come. That doesn't help the traveler at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u42	I'm gonna try again. ProRail is controlled by a supervisory board. We'll check with the Secretary of State. Now the Supervisory Board, in Mr Alders's person, has stopped crucial reports while the Chamber asked for those reports. So one inspector gets in the way of the other. Mr Alders is also a member of Mr Hoogland's party. What does Mr Hoogland think about Mr Alder's withholding information that is so important to the parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u43	There are separate responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u44	Yes, but that can also be a problem, namely if one auditor withholds information from the other auditor, namely the Chamber. It is only one interest, that of the traveller. By so naming this separation of control tasks, I think the PvdA is abandoning the traveller. That's how I know the PvdA, because she often abandons her constituents. But there's something going on on the trail, isn't there? Now Mr Hoogland says: yes, there is something going on and we have finally got those secret reports out, but we are not going to find much of that because that is not our job.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u45	Above all, it is not our job to go to the rail with a screwdriver and participate in something we pay other people for. So the Chamber shouldn't do that. The supervisory task, which has been invested in the Supervisory Board, should not be taken over by all of us here. Then we'll be able to cancel that board of directors. Yes, perhaps Mr Madlener would, but I think it would be extremely unwise to do so. I think it would be extremely unwise for us here in the Chamber to write the booklet together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u46	Mr. Chairman. How much longer? How long on earth, Madam Secretary of State, are you going to defy our patience? We asked for documents, but we didn't get them from the Secretary of State. We asked 77 questions, but the answers are missing. The Chamber has all the documents, the Secretary of State reported. That same night, the pieces we asked her for were on the website of a big newspaper. We can only see the recent problems surrounding ProRail in a historical perspective. Whatever preceded this is also important. In that history of the Secretary of State's intervention, it goes from incident to incident. I mention the most important, and only the incidents that have a relationship with ProRail. In January 2013 it appeared that a critical report on the working methods of ProRail and on safety on the track was wrongly not sent to the House of Representatives. The report was withheld for six months. A mea culpa followed, and the minister and the secretary of state received a yellow card from the opposition. Furthermore, there was disorder on the hsl due to falling trains. The replacement of the Fyra was removed from the rotation because the pantograph appeared to be particularly sensitive to wear and tear. Sander de Rouwe, my predecessor at the CDA, proposed to remove the Secretary of State from the file. Since November, the State Secretary knew that ProRail would extend four maintenance contracts against the rules underhand. Those contracts should have been tendered out publicly. This will only come to light in August 2015. The conversion of Utrecht CS station under the direction of ProRail would then prove to be more expensive than 50 million. Next, ProRail appears to lack nearly half a billion euros for management, maintenance and replacement. That money's not in the Infrastructure Fund. The Secretary of State thinks he's gonna find options to cut down on the regional rail lines. Then there will be an interview with the director of ProRail. In it he indicates that the cooperation between ProRail and the Ministry of I and M is not going well. He says it's part of ProRail, but it's not part of it either. The director of ProRail also says that he will no longer respond to I and M's request to keep opponents quiet. That follows the debate with the curious 'I am not giving you a hand' incident. De Telegraaf writes that ProRail has been a mess in the financial administration for five years. Internal control is so weak that it cannot be ruled out that fraud has been committed. Last weekend, Strukton's top guy hits the press. The management of the ministry itself would not be in order and it would not be fair for ProRail to be blamed. And yesterday we received a letter from the Secretary of State: without documents, because we already had everything. Then the pieces we wanted were on the site. With this history in mind, the question arises whether ProRail's problems can be solved in a reasonable time with reasonable costs and in a way that the company can return hopefully into the future. After all, a lot of people work very hard and very well there. Another question is whether Secretary of State Mansveld is the right one to introduce the direction as shareholder and politically responsible. I have some questions. The most important question is what is the relationship between I and M and ProRail. How do the directors of ProRail and the Secretary of State work together, especially after the last debate and the disagreement? What is true of the statements of the Director of ProRail that he had to keep bad information under his hat? A lot of attention is paid to that by the director, and later he had to take it back. However, you cannot speak of a real slip of the tongue in this case. What is the role of the Secretary of State in relation to ProRail? What is the role of the Ministry? Is there enough expertise? Is there sufficient expert official effort to assess, supervise and coordinate the work of ProRail from the Ministry? Is it true that absenteeism in the Ministry is very high? Now that the Chamber is so often confronted with incidents and hassles, the question is whether the Ministry can handle it. Is it true that the plan is to close ProRail's deficit mainly with money and plans from the region? Every quarter ProRail discusses with the Ministry of I and M the progress of major railway and station projects. Cash flows are discussed every six months. Every year there is an audit of the major projects. Then how is it possible that the Chamber will be surprised? ProRail's financial records could be better. In the annual report approved by the auditor, ProRail itself stated that the internal control of financial processes is not sufficient in all respects. What has been the role of the Supervisory Board and what will that role be in the future? Why couldn't the Secretary of State give us the documents De Telegraaf does? Why did the Secretary of State wait so long to report on the PGO contracts? The Secretary of State says that companies that have pilot contracts are willing to dissolve them. Who, for example, from Strukton agreed to this and when did anyone from Strukton agree to it? Why didn't the Secretary of State inform the Chamber about the deficits at ProRail? And my final question: how long has that report, which is on De Telegraaf's website, been with the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u47	Mr Bashir, it is also your final first-term question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u48	In fact, Mr Van Helvert has partly answered my questions with his last questions. I wanted to refer to the debate a few weeks ago, on 10 September 2015, with the Secretary of State on, among other things, the statements of the boss of ProRail. Then we asked the Secretary of State to put all the information on the table. I said all the bodies out of the closet. Mr Van Helvert says that the Chamber would like to be informed properly and quickly. Can I conclude that he feels that the Secretary of State did not tell us everything during that debate? That she was withholding information that didn't get out until weeks later?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u49	So the question is whether I think the Secretary of State said everything in that last AO. I didn't put up any chairs or benches that I thought the Secretary of State didn't let go of anything in that AO. At the end of that debate, I made it clear that if the Secretary of State does not want to let go of anything, then I have no choice but to request all the information that remains. I even asked for all correspondence between the ProRail summit and the I-M summit that is relevant for ProRail's funding and management. I didn't get it, because the coalition didn't think it made any sense. Of course, I felt that we didn't have enough information, otherwise I wouldn't have to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u50	I agree with Mr Van Helvert's analysis. I too am disappointed. We didn't get all the information we asked for. However, I am surprised to understand from journalists that the Secretary of State told us in the corridors that she had agreed with the Chamber that she would share information with us at certain times, for example during the presentation of the budget. I don't remember the Secretary of State meeting me like this. Has it been agreed with Mr Van Helvert or with someone else in the Chamber that the Secretary of State would only give information on the deficit of 1.1 billion in the budget, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u51	With me such an appointment is absolutely not made, let me put it first. What I did say was that we wanted all the relevant documents on ProRail's funding or management that the Secretary of State still had somewhere in a deep drawer, on the windowsill or in her purse as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u52	Mr Van Helvert represents a group which in recent years has held government responsibility in various Cabinets, even in periods where there has been considerable cuts in ProRail. In part, we are still experiencing the consequences of this. Mr Van Helvert asks a lot of questions in his first term, also a question that triggered me a little bit, namely whether this Secretary of State is still the right person in the right place. I'm just going to summarize it in my own words. Of course, such a question is never value-free. What does the CDA Group think?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u53	I did say in my first term that today the question arises whether the Secretary of State is the one who can direct and coordinate this, whether she feels strongly about it. It is not for nothing that I asked for the debate with Mr Hoogland. We are not satisfied with the way it has been done so far. This means that the Secretary of State will have to come up with a strong story to prove that she is the one who can do it. If we had no doubts, we would not have requested the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u54	If I asked a few colleagues what a strong story is, I might also get different answers. In short, what does the CDA Group want to hear to have sufficient confidence in this Secretary of State? It is not nothing that Mr Van Helvert is doing here. The Secretary of State and the rest of the Chamber are entitled to know exactly what he said there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u55	To know exactly what?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u56	To know exactly what you said there, namely that you indicate exactly what you mean by that and not say a vague text whether this is the right person in the right place. No, what's the strong story? What do you want to hear in the term of this Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u57	Two things. First of all, I want to know what the relevant action of the Secretary of State was in the past. I have raised a number of points and put a number of questions in that direction. One of them is how it is possible that ProRail has been pulling the jacket at the Ministry since 2012, that it is not going well, that there are deficits and that the State Secretary has made the decision not to share it with the Chamber. In fact, there has been a weighing-up to say to the Chamber that so far everything can be budgetaryly neutral. That's a question back to the past. I have also asked a number of questions. Secondly, I would also like the Secretary of State to indicate what we can expect from her as Secretary of State. Then I want more than what happened in general consultation, namely that the Secretary of State says she's on top of it shortly. Then when I ask how we can see next week that she is on top of it, she says she will report better. I want to see what this directing, coordinating function is as a 100% shareholder and as a politically responsible one. I want to see these two things and I think that the Secretary of State has a lot to explain about the way in which he communicates, including with the Chamber as the highest body in this country, and about her own input.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u58	Mr Van Helvert made a number of suggestions, for example with regard to the Director of ProRail, who had a different opinion than the Secretary of State on keeping information under review and who later took back these words. He'll come back to that. I have a number of questions for Mr Van Helvert, first of all which leads him to raise that question again, because I think that is actually done. Secondly, I ask him why he flies on these things in this way. What are his reasons for following the director of Strukton, for example? How does Mr Van Helvert qualify the performance of these two gentlemen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u59	These are two questions. First of all, the director of ProRail in Het Financieele Dagblad clearly says that he will no longer bow down when the Ministry asks him to keep information that is not pleasant under his hat. He says: we've done that too many times, and we're not going to do that from now on. He uses three full sentences for it, in The Financial Daily. He, an experienced director, commended by the Secretary of State, uses three phrases to confirm it. That's not a slip of the tongue. The verdict stands. Of course, the director must then withdraw it from the Secretary of State. That does not mean, however, that that remark was made for nothing. The question behind it is: what does the Secretary of State do with that information? Apparently, there's that thought at ProRail. Apparently, they received the information from I and M in such a way that they felt pressured not to share information they wanted to share. Today we see something essential in De Telegraaf. A former top man of ProRail I have to be careful not to mention names, because it is so recent.. wants to share negative information but should not be allowed by Mr Alders. Oh, now I'm gonna call it a name, but he's gonna be in the papers himself, so I can call him. The same gentleman, who was not allowed to do so by Mr Alders, then sent a letter to the Chamber and to the Secretary of State stating that it was not so bad and that it was not so bad at all with ProRail. Then those documents will be made public in De Telegraaf. They all contradict it. That means ProRail feels pressured. What's the Secretary of State doing with that? So far, the Secretary of State has only said that it was clumsy and she has withdrawn it. That is far too short a turn and does not do justice to the verdict behind which there was a thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u60	What about Strukton?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u61	How do I weigh the words of the Director of ProRail and the words of the Director of Strukton? Two gentlemen, in this case, are very concerned about the way the government handles business or semi-business. They're worried. They both work very hard in their company. The director of ProRail has clearly said that things have gone wrong with ProRail, but we are working on it. I am confident that the current director of ProRail is on the right track with ProRail. Because he is worried, he says in the newspaper: the collaboration between I and M and ProRail is not going well and that is partly due to ProRail. He's still so neat not to tell what the other part is. If I ask the Secretary of State what her reaction is, the answer is no response. And now I haven't been able to say anything about Strukton.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u62	I note that Mr Van Helvert needs a lot of words in order not to give an answer. That's one. Two, he's sticking to suggestions and insinuations. I see this order: ProRail's director later revoked the piece in the FD. I would say that the latest information is the current information. Mr Van Helvert must agree with me. If I can believe the newspaper and some other things, then perhaps I should also believe what was in the report that we received today and that was on a national site last night: it appears to be a report that was apparently stopped within ProRail itself. The question is, can you blame the Secretary of State? So briefly and well, my question to Mr Van Helvert remains whether he wants to give an opinion not on the information itself but on the manner in which both directors act, such as press communications.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u63	Mr Houwers, too, will have to do so as a representative of the people. Sometimes you communicate through the press when you can't hear where you knock. That is why I should like to put a counter question to Mr Houwers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u64	But we're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u65	How does he judge...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u66	You can ask that question in a moment when Mr Houwers is behind the speaker's seat.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u67	I think that is a very nice suggestion, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u68	I am trying to get the series of questions put to the Secretary of State by Mr Van Helvert to work on me. I'm not getting out of there, to be honest. A number of questions affect the responsibility of the government representative as Secretary of State. A number of questions affect her responsibility as a shareholder. A number of questions are directly related to the management of ProRail. I ask Mr Van Helvert where exactly the boundaries between the responsibilities lie. I have the idea that both the appetizer and the main course and the custard are mixed in one plate with Mr Van Helvert. For me, this is not a tasty dish.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u69	We are dealing with a Secretary of State who is 100% shareholder. We are dealing with a Secretary of State responsible for the appointment of the Supervisory Board. That's right, there's double caps. That is no reason or argument at the moment not to question the Secretary of State. As soon as the Secretary of State agreed to her portfolio, she knew that these were her responsibilities. At the moment when the Secretary of State thinks that a number of responsibilities are becoming too much for her, it seems to me right that she should indicate that. As long as this is not the case, we shall address her on all these responsibilities. In the end, we do so from the point of view of the purpose of sharing this objective in this Chamber, which makes the track as good as possible and allows all users to drive it as well as possible. We can therefore appeal to the Secretary of State on all her responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u70	We agree on the objective, not on how we can achieve it. Or even more reluctantly put: we differ on how we can make a contribution from the Chamber in order to achieve that goal. I have the feeling that I am waiting for the reaction of the ruler that Mr Van Helvert wants to have a sprinter run over the HSL at the moment, to use imagery. The instruments used by Mr Van Helvert do not match the various responsibilities. This gives you an inconceivable, impenetrable knitting that does not serve the business. I hope that the govern ment will manage to structure the questions put by Mr Van Helvert. Where are the precise responsibilities invested? I would like to move forward together in this way. I would like to invite Mr Van Helvert to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u71	I understand that this is primarily a question for the govern ment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u72	Yes, through Mr Van Helvert, of course. That's how I do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u73	I would like to say that Mr Bishop can do this on his own time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u74	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u75	But I thought it was very valuable. I am also pleased that you agree with the principles. I keep saying that as a representative of the people, and so may you, the Secretary of State may address the mix of responsibilities she has. She accepted them all consciously when she became Secretary of State. To say now, now that there are problems, that poor Secretary of State has several responsibilities that are mixed up is not a good argument. This was known in advance. It is not an argument for the Secretary of State to be cautious about gauntlets now, when we are poorly informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u76	Thank you very much for your contribution, Mr Van Helvert. I call Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u77	Mr. Chairman. Over and over again, we are surprised with information about ProRail: setbacks and deficits, annual reports that may not be correct, information that is not in order, tense relations between the Ministry and ProRail. It is only after we have specifically asked for it or when they have appeared in the media that matters are left to the House. Moreover, it appears that not only the Chamber, but also the Secretary of State does not have this knowledge. This doesn't seem to hurt her. The example is the handling of the report on the financial chaos at ProRail. De Telegraaf quoted from this report last week: an administration that is kept so poorly that fraud cannot be ruled out, annual reports that do not give a reliable picture, send them on receipts and not on the question of whether the money has been spent usefully. The Secretary of State replied that she never faced the documents, asked ProRail for clarification and waited. The President-in-Office just wrote something else. He says it's already been discussed with the Secretary of State. This can't be both true. Did the Secretary of State know these problems or not? Then what is it that's been discussed with her? I come to the contents of the report. Mr Alders did not want to bring it out because it would be a matter for the Supervisory Board. This touches a little on Mr Bishop's question. I don't think there's a black and white answer to that. Such a shocking report with such conclusions is something the Secretary of State, as well as the Chamber, should know, even if you want to steer broad lines? I assume the Secretary of State has read the report very well by now. So I ask her what her verdict is now. Should she have gotten that report? Does she still think that there is no sign of financial chaos or does she think that the Chamber should have been informed about these problems? No one says it's easy to track. It is a complex company with high demands and high ambitions. Co-workers are working hard on that. Progress is certainly being made, but much remains to be done. This report is not on its own. There are also reports on illegal pilots, on lack of management and maintenance, on abuses in the tendering process in Limburg and on the management of independent administrative bodies: all reports with critical conclusions. So it's about your attitude. Do you take the problems seriously, even if they are unpleasant signals or if they concern your own organization, or not? The new ProRail top man, appointed by this Secretary of State himself, said: we need to report setbacks earlier and we need to stop postponing bad news. Strukton's top man says, "The Ministry doesn't have his affairs in order." A former CFO of ProRail talks about an unhealthy working relationship between the Ministry and the railway company. Another one wrote about an organization that lost control of finances. However, the Secretary of State sweeps things a bit under the carpet and varies on the themes "does not exist," "is not so" or "is not so." Then I think: are they all wrong? Are they all creating a completely wrong picture? Or did the Secretary of State want to know part of it? The letters from the last few weeks lay down what shall I call it? The Commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity and on the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of equal treatment. In the Long Term Track Agenda, the Secretary of State said that she wanted to tighten up her drive. In yesterday's letter what it mostly: I want to be a remote shareholder. What is the Secretary of State's vision now to offer the traveler the best on the track? Tighter control or leave it to ProRail? What's her vision on this? I come to the financial problems. We knew there was a big shortage at ProRail. Now we have clarity, because in 2013 ProRail reported a deficit of 1.1 billion and now it turns out to be "only" a hole of 475 million euros. The crucial question is, of course, how that deficit could have arisen. Did the Secretary of State possibly end up making a shopping list without realizing how much money was in her wallet? My concern is above all how we prevent the traveller from being affected by additional disturbances, major diversions, more daytime delays or fewer tracks in Gelderland, Limburg or Overijssel. Has the Secretary of State in the Long Term Track Agenda and at the regional tables created a dream that was no longer realistic in the sum, but which was not allowed to be pierced? Is that perhaps the finger that put ProRail's top man in the sore spot? There are major problems with ProRail that need to be solved. I am convinced that within the organisation there really is the will to put it in order. However, the Secretary of State will have to recognise and deal with the problems. Does she see the problems and the role of its ministry and the Supervisory Board of ProRail? Does she take responsibility and have a vision of the approach? That is the essential question for my group today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u78	D66 raises some rather important questions. We both share the concern for the traveller. Which of these problems are inherent in the functioning of the market in such a complex market as rail? What vision does D66 itself have on the control? Should the Secretary of State be much shorter on top of it? Or is it part of market forces and the way it is rigged with a supervisory board, appropriate distance?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u79	That's a lot of questions. To which of these problems is specific, always and directly related to market forces, the answer is: none! You can set up market forces in many different ways and very carefully. A strong market, a strong government, that's the way D66 looks at it. So if you're gonna put a company like that away, that means you're gonna have to keep an eye on what that company is doing with the taxpayers' money. When there are signs that things are not going well, you should also actively look for what is going on. You should not then sweep it under the mat, but try to grasp the essence of the problems and then, of course, with respect for the division of labour, provide an approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u80	I think this might be a little naive. In fact, we have been holding ongoing debates on this subject, no matter what govern ment there has been on this subject in the last 15 or 20 years, and no matter what President-in-Office we had. It had to be closer, then further away, then closer and then further away. Does D66 not agree with me that it is a bit naive to say that such a company can be managed without difficulty with a form of market operation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u81	I think it's a little simplistic to pretend that it would all be resolved without market forces. I made it clear in my contribution that it is a complex business. We're asking a lot of it. With all these types of big projects that we ask for, things sometimes go wrong. But then it's about your attitude, the willingness to really examine the problems, to see what your own responsibility is, and then to have a vision of how to deal with them. That is also the essence of my question here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u82	Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks is a passionate pro-train and pro-public transport party. We see these things as an essential utility in the Netherlands. Tonight, during this debate, we will judge and look at these paths along the following points. We would like to know from the Secretary of State why the Chamber did not receive the documents in the Telegraph this morning. Why didn't we get it until after the Telegraph had it? These documents and reports present a staggering picture, which I cannot reconcile with the letter from the President-in-Office of the Council, Hans Alders. So we would like the Secretary of State to explain to us how she can do that. The pieces show that there are a number of improvements. I understand that it takes time to implement improvement plans, but I would like to know how the Secretary of State looks at them. How does she intend to roll out these improvement plans? And how can we get a reasonable degree of assurance on that? It cannot be wrong, but an incredibly much better than what I read in the report should certainly be possible. Other participants in the debate have also said the following. The financial problems are called the 'voltages', but are actually a major deficit. The utilities, which we consider to be so important, may be affected by this, especially in the regions. How does the Secretary of State intend to deal with that? Yesterday we received a report from the Minister of I and M on the supervision of ZBOs. ProRail was also specifically mentioned. One of the conclusions of the report is that there is no substantive supervisory agenda. Where do we judge such a company, especially the Secretary of State? If you don't know what you're being judged on, you don't know what you're gonna stand for. The report contains a whole series of useful recommendations and responses. I would very much like the Secretary of State to say that she is taking over, and we do not get the answer that we have to wait until the end of the year for a cabinet Juice. For GroenLinks, of course, the priority is that the problems should be addressed quickly and structurally and resolved. That's the same for the other spokesmen. This requires the full commitment of all concerned. The President-in-Office of the Council has a very active role to play in this, given the letters. However, we seriously wonder if Hans Alders has enough time to do so. I'd like to know from the Secretary of State how she sees this. Shouldn't there be more commitment from the President-in-Office? We have also asked questions from the start of this ministry about the gravity of the assignment of tasks to this govern ment and to the minister. I wonder how the Secretary of State is looking at that now. This debate is part of the neverding story of the privatisation of rail. I think that everyone should acknowledge afterwards that the political lines in the privatisation process should have been much better thought out. ProRail still has one shareholder, but privatisation has placed both the NS and ProRail at a long distance from the government. I wonder if the Secretary of State feels that she has sufficient power of perseverance to prevent the budget overruns that have now come to light. Does she have the opportunity to do so? I think it would be a good idea for the Secretary of State to explain tonight exactly how the supervisory role of the portfolio holder has been legally shaped and how it is shaping it in practice. Does that have to change? As far as the Secretary of State is concerned, should anything change in the statutes? How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that relevant information comes to the Chamber in a timely and complete manner? That's what everyone's actually been asking for. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that relevant cases also come to the Chamber unsolicited? What about, for example, the message that former top lady Gout of ProRail warned about budget overruns in 2014, but that this letter was withdrawn by her successor? This is just one of many examples. Are there any substantive or political considerations behind this? As one of the tasks of the governing director responsible for the track, GroenLinks calculates the management of NS and ProRail. We call on the Secretary of State to find a solution to the cuts in regional rail links as soon as possible. We think this is a huge problem, especially in view of the fact that car kilometres in the Netherlands seem to be even more harmful than we knew before the tampering with the Volkswagen software was discussed. So we want more people to be encouraged to travel by train.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u83	Mr. Chairman. On 9 June 2015 we had a debate about the unsuccessful procurement of the railway in Limburg. There was fraud there too. That debate took place following a report by the ACM on irregularities and breach of the Railway Act. During that debate, it emerged that the Secretary of State had already received the ACM's report in question on 12 March. That report could be shared with the Minister of Finance, but disappeared in a drawer of the Secretary of State. It was only a month and a half later that Finance found out that there was a solid report from ACM. At the end of the debate I was tipped by e-mail about another report, a report by PwC on the secret and illegal extension of the term of maintenance contracts at ProRail. I then walked forward and asked the Secretary of State if there was anything else to report to the Chamber about a report from PwC. The Secretary of State pretended to bleed her nose, but would still look in her drawer. And indeed, two weeks later, we got a summary of that PwC report. Turned out what? The Secretary of State had been able to know for nine months that ProRail would not go well with the term of the maintenance contracts. In March 2014, ProRail had already sent an e-mail about the term of these contracts. That e-mail was also missing in a drawer. How can this keep happening? Why does everything disappear in a drawer? Since then, we have had a better picture of the situation, not thanks to the Secretary of State, but thanks to the media. Because the Secretary of State doesn't answer parliamentary questions and doesn't send reports to the Chamber. De Telegraaf published information today that the Secretary of State has withheld. What we read there is truly staggering. There's staff understaffing. 50% of the financial employees are not in the right place. So people are dismotivated massively. The finances are kept in Excel files, the head of finance is not in the accounts and there is even talk of possible fraud. Why didn't you let us know? What's the reason for that? Is it true that all this has been known since 2012? The question is therefore whether the Secretary of State still has a grip on her track record. How does the Secretary of State himself look back on recent times? Recently, the Secretary of State came into conflict with ProRail's new top man, who, incidentally, was brought in by the Secretary of State himself for a salary higher than that of the Prime Minister, and that is contrary to the terms of the agreement. The press reveals an even more disturbing picture of a Secretary of State who is only "screaming" at her department, where there are overworked officials, crowded loads and high staff turnover. The question arises as to whether the Secretary of State still enjoys authority in her department. Can the Secretary of State explain where this image came from? Can the Commission also answer the questions and comments of the Strukton Directorate, which states that half of the questions are answered wrongly, and that the Ministry has wrongly informed the company about the PGO contracts, namely that they have not yet been terminated? It is known that the SP wants to merge the NS and ProRail into one company under the direct responsibility of the Ministry. This is how we can finally direct things. However, this Secretary of State seems to like it all the way it is, and in the meantime, she's ranked the Chamber again and again to the wrong track. It is still unclear which setbacks we can expect now. At first it was only the stations of Breda and Utrecht, the last with a setback of 29.5 million. After statements from the boss of ProRail we received a letter with a whole list of stations. However, the budget shows that Utrecht has a total overrun of 95.1 million. Why didn't the Secretary of State come clean about this right away and hold on to the 29.5 million? Then we are not even talking about the deficits at other stations. It gets a lot worse. This Secretary of State can't be buried either. PwC has calculated that the rail maintenance deficit amounts to EUR 1.1 billion. On 25 June 2014, ProRail informed the State Secretary. That information also disappeared in a drawer with the Secretary of State. Finally, the Secretary of State reported this to the Chamber one year and three months later. Why did it happen so late? Didn't the Secretary of State actually put us on the wrong track with this? In fact, the Chamber received the Long Term Track Agenda with all the ambitions of the Secretary of State, while in reality there was no money at all. How is she going to implement the Long Term Track Agenda, or is it going to disappear in a drawer again? As far as we are concerned, this is the next question. Is the Secretary of State still the appropriate person to deal with the ever-increasing problems on the track? If so, how is she finally going to get back on track?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u84	Mr. Chairman. In the past period we have witnessed a series of negative messages about ProRail. There has been an image of a lot of uncertainty. The VVD believes that ProRail should be fully aware of its social responsibility. ProRail has a social task that he fulfills with taxpayers' money. As far as the VVD is concerned, this debate concerns the use of taxpayers' money and the way in which the Chamber controls it. Working with tax money means that the railway manager must carry out work efficiently, with the importance of the passenger and the shipper at the forefront. That's why the VVD asked the Secretary of State to be on top of it. I would like to receive a re-affirmation of what has been said in the first period of the general consultation that we have already had on this subject. I would like to receive a confirmation that the Secretary of State will send the Chamber more regularly and more frequently updates on the progress of these major rail projects where deficits occur. When can the Court expect the first report on this matter? It's a big amount of taxpayers' money. That's why we want to keep a finger on the wrist. How does the Secretary of State relate this to the agreements we recently made in the Long Term Rail Agenda? Then I'll get to the imaging. The chairman of ProRail's Supervisory Board states that he does not recognize himself in the image of ProRail. In the letter we read that facts and images differ widely. In the meantime, that imagery has emerged. I would ask the Secretary of State to respond to this and to include the reports which were sent to the Chamber this afternoon in a hurry. Does the Secretary of State recognise the picture outlined in the reports? What actions have been taken in the meantime? Communication and cooperation between ProRail and the Ministry are essential to ensure good rail infrastructure within the current organisation. The news of recent times gives us the picture that it seems to suspend on this. Passengers and freighters must not suffer from this. What does the Secretary of State intend to do to improve communication between ProRail and the Ministry in the short term? What role does the Secretary of State see in this for ProRail and which for its ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u85	Mrs de Boer asks the Secretary of State about the imaging, but I am curious to hear the opinion of the VVD on the report we received through De Telegraaf at the very last moment. I would almost like to ask Mrs De Boer: what went through you when you read it? I have to say that when I read it, I was really shocked by all those points, which are not clear whether the taxpayers' money was well spent. What did Mrs. De Boer think of that report when she read it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u86	There are indeed qualifications in there that are not wrong. I could only put it badly this morning, because there was no date in it. That is why I ask the Secretary of State to give an assessment of these reports. When did those reports start? What's been done about it in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u87	If I interpret Mrs De Boer correctly, she says that what is in the reports is actually impossible and she therefore wants to know what has been done about it since the moment it is going on. If the Secretary of State was aware of this issue, does Mrs De Boer think that the Secretary of State should have informed the Chamber about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u88	That is also our question to the Secretary of State: when were these reports sent to the Ministry? We have understood, at least, that's how it came about in the imaging that the reports didn't go to the Ministry either. That is the question I would like to put above: what is the state of communication between the Ministry and ProRail?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u89	We're dealing with a financial mess at ProRail and a Fyra that didn't drive and cost millions and we have concrete rot in the Betuwe railway line. And now the spokesperson of the VVD claims that the traveller should not suffer. Then I would like to remind the VVD that ProRail's usage fee is going up and the train tickets of the NS become more expensive. This is all happening to cover the hole that those blundering drivers hit. How can Mrs De Boer say that the traveller should not suffer? The traveller will suffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u90	Mr Madlener also referred to all kinds of other qualifications and issues in this area. No, we are certainly in that: the traveller must not suffer. We have also agreed on this in the Long Term Track Agenda. That is also the question I am asking here, which I want the Secretary of State to answer. I want to know what she thinks of the progress of all these agreements, which we made in the Chamber only a year and a half ago, and where we said: that traveller is on one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u91	We are dealing here with a lack of financial administration by ProRail and a report stating that the Betuwe line, the Rotterdam port freight line, is far too expensive and that Rotterdam can no longer compete on the railways. Mrs De Boer says that the traveller should not suffer, but then I remind her that the Dutch train tickets have become too expensive because of all the flatters and that Rotterdam entrepreneurs pay too much for the train. Of course the traveller will suffer. I therefore believe that the VVD should come up with a story on how we can improve this and not with a story that the traveller should not suffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u92	That is why we are having this debate today, which is all the wrongs we have been able to observe in recent times and which we have already had a general discussion on before. We have all asked a number of questions, including the improvements on this point, because we do not think that the traveller should suffer. I can assume that Mr Madlener agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u93	You can ask Mr Madlener that question later. I shall now give the floor to Mr Madlener for his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u94	I look forward to hearing Mrs De Boer's question. Mr. Chairman. Clearly, the mess at ProRail is not an incident. It's been wrong on the Dutch trail for years. Everything has to do with each other. From the Fyra to the overpriced train tickets, from falling trains, late maintenance, financial disorder at ProRail and inadequate management to a screaming State Secretary, according to De Telegraaf's sources. Everything's coming together here. We, as representatives of the people, should be guarding the railways and defending the interests of travellers and safety, without worrying whether taxpayers' money is being spent properly and efficiently. But the ProRail organization appears to be made up of kingdoms and this Secretary of State has no control over the situation. It is doubtful that President Commissioner Hans Alders refuses to make two incriminating reports available to the Chamber through the State Secretary. This PvdA-bobo with his 21 big paid jobs fails as Commissioner and is partly responsible for the abuses and he acts as if it is all okay. At the same time, he tries to cover up important information about the mess he created and to deceive the Secretary of State and the House of Representatives. Our secretary of state has lost all direction. There's a lot going on, but she seems to be chasing the facts. Report after report, disappointment after disappointment, and over and over again the Secretary of State seems surprised and surprised. Then again, she says not to go about it. Then again, she says she didn't know. Then again, she says everything's gonna be okay. But is that right? Can the weather be good now that it has become so painfully visible that placing ProRail remotely has contributed to this mess? The Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry Fyra is almost coming up with the conclusions on the NS and it will also show that it is completely wrong. ProRail's problems aren't on their own. The problems aren't new. As early as January 2013, a motion from my predecessor, Mr Machiel de Graaf, was adopted in Chambers, and that motion says that communication with the Chamber must be put in order and that safeguards must be put in place to prevent errors. In 2014, President Marion Gout resigned. She wrote in her suicide note that it's a mess at ProRail. That letter disappeared in the cover-up. Then I have a whole list of incidents. I will mention them very briefly when I have enough speaking time. Maintenance contracts were illegally renewed. At the stations Utrecht, Breda and Arnhem there were huge budget overruns, of which it is still unclear how much money is involved. There is a lot of late maintenance and concrete rot on the track, including the Betuwe line, which was eventually built for 4.7 billion. The Secretary of State is still in the dark about the extent of the damage and the way in which it can be recovered. A deficit of 1.1 billion initially in the Infrastructure Fund has now become inexplicably 475 million. In a report by the Rotterdam administrative expert Wim Derksen he shows that there is a looming error, which leads to confusion about the division of roles between the ministry and the supervisors. There have been recent statements by the new top man of ProRail, Pier Eringa, who has rightly pointed out to us the shortcomings of ProRail, but was quickly flogged back by the Secretary of State. Finally, two leaked reports have been published today by De Telegraaf, which show a very disturbing picture of the state in which ProRail is located. The reaction of the Secretary of State is again negative: these documents have not been validated and are for internal use. She doesn't go into the content at all. She again chooses to deny and disprove the reports, just like Commissioner Hans Alders. We want to talk about the quality of rail transport, about passenger tariffs and about safety. However, due to the lack of guidance from the cabinet, we only talk about financial disorder, organisational problems and arguing directors and Commissioners. ProRail manages public infrastructure with public funds. This is why the PVV wants public guidance by the State Secretary and public control by the Lower House, just like with our road manager Rijkswaterstaat. Relocating ProRail as an implementation organisation under the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment will not automatically eliminate all problems, but it will lead to the disappearance of a management intermediate layer and much more direct guidance by the Ministry. It could be the beginning of the solution and I wonder if the Secretary of State is prepared to do so. Can the Secretary of State comment on this? The problems that have arisen on the trail are not new. The Secretary of State has become part of the problem in recent years. We have not yet seen the beginning of a solution and openly wonder whether this Secretary of State can really put a firm order on things, reorganise and send out failing Commissioners, such as Hans Alders. I look forward to the first deadline of her response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u95	Mr Madlener, your wish comes true. There's a question for you from Mrs. De Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u96	Of course, I do not want to disappoint Mr Madlener; he has been looking forward to the interruption. A year and a half ago we had the debate here on the Long Term Track Agenda. The PVV then proposed to merge the NS and ProRail. Mr Madlener is now making very different proposals, so we are now going to have a structural discussion as a solution to the problems that exist today. A year and a half ago we had a debate and now he is making very different proposals? How does Mr Madlener look at it himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u97	Relocating ProRail to the Ministry is not a completely different proposal, but a step in the right direction. We want to bring NS and ProRail back under the direct responsibility of the Ministry. Furthermore, Rijkswaterstaat, the administrator of our roads, falls under the direct responsibility of the Minister. There it goes a lot better with the control. So it's a win if we can put ProRail back in the Ministry, because then we'll lose that whole interlayer. That seems to be a good first step.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u98	A year and a half ago, we discussed this. I'm sorry we didn't have the PVV on our side back then. Then perhaps we could have had a more fundamental and broader discussion, because Mr Madlener is now referring to all kinds of things that were already going on back then. I will leave that to Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u99	I have not heard a question, but I would like to point out that all these problems are not new. The reports and all the cases we've been discussing today have been going on for years. There's been no directing of the Secretary of State for years. For years I have heard 'we can't help it' and 'the Commissioner doesn't want to tell the House of Representatives'. It's been the same for years, hasn't it? Mrs De Boer says very nicely that the traveller should not be the victim of it, but he will be the victim of it. The train tickets have become more expensive because of the waste. The competitive position of the Rotterdam port is under pressure because the rates for container transport to Germany are too high. Then how can Mrs De Boer say that the traveller is not going to suffer? The whole of the Netherlands will suffer from this policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u100	Mr. Chairman. Due to some portfolio changes in my group, I am making my rent on the infrastructure portfolio today. With a topic like ProRail, that transition is quite frankly not that big. I have a note that I published at the end of November 2010, when I was a spokesperson. The title is: On the way to one Rijksinfra manager. That note was about ProRail. In summary: the people who work for ProRail worked and worked very hard. Some have been doing that for a very long time. There's a lot going well, but there's also some good things going wrong. This way the control is really not always clear. ProRail stood and stands in our eyes a little too far from the Ministry. The complexity of our rail network, which is being used very intensively, also causes the necessary problems. At the time, I can simply repeat our conclusion today: it needs to be more efficient, it needs to be more customer-oriented and it needs to be more transparent. We had no support from the PVV then, but something had to change in that structure. It was said at the time that it was long-term work, but now we are five years ahead and almost nothing has changed. Something else happened in between. The Chicken Commission put its finger on it, partly on the initiative of the Christian Union and the VVD, but that too was a few years ago. Unfortunately, a lot of valuable time has been lost. In addition to control problems, there are also financial problems. They've only gotten bigger lately. Why? Some predecessors of this Secretary of State have spent quite a lot. They have also raised some issues, which have reduced the amount of money available to their successors. There have been cuts, even a few times. At the Rutte I cabinet too, I have a look at the PVV section, which has been cut. That has had consequences for ProRail. There are nasty overruns, they keep coming back every time. This means that there is a considerable deficit. There are even scenarios that would show that there would be less money available than we would really like for the region, but also for the High Frequency Rail Programme. I note that this Secretary of State has received a few inheritances in her portfolio from predecessors who, to say the least, are not very pleasant. I do not understand why she has laid down conditions for this, and that is why she is now fully politically responsible, especially given the time she is on this dossier, or is on it. My group does not doubt the commitment of this Secretary of State. I tracked it remotely. Our former spokesman, who is now also in the Chambers, has also experienced it very closely. I believe that she has worked hard to tackle the structural problems she has experienced. We can see that there has been insufficient results so far and that it is really time to step up. What's to be done? First of all, there must be greater openness about what is going on. That jojoing with reports like the one that took place last week shouldn't be like this. I had to prepare myself for this debate this morning as a Member of Parliament via the Telegraph website! My advice to the Secretary of State is: inform the Chamber in good time and do so even if there are shortages on crucial issues. Utrecht is, of course, such an example of which we all know how it came about. Inform the Chamber in good time so that we can face it and see what can happen. My group would also like to have some reflection of the Secretary of State on her own role, in particular on the way in which shareholdership has been fulfilled. I'd like to hear about that. I would also like to hear from her how she sees the direction of the Ministry of ProRail. We know that it is actually broader, when we look at the evaluations of the monitoring of the ZBOs, but how does she see the direction from the Ministry? Does it intend to do what its predecessors have left behind and has not yet done: intervene on it? I would like to know about the concerns about the lack of investment space due to the overruns and deficits. Do they rest on truth? As far as we are concerned, it would not be good if these deficits were to be passed on to the region or if the High-frequency Track Programme were to be cut. I'd like some clarity from the Secretary of State. Locking up. There's hassle, a lot of hassle. In a way, there is not much news under the sun, because we have experienced this more often in recent years, also with predecessors of this Secretary of State. I would like to hear from her in this debate what her agenda is to really tackle the problems in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u101	Mr. Chairman. As a frequent train traveler, I have followed closely the construction of some major stations in recent years. To be honest, I have received great admiration for these projects; the logistics surrounding them and the fact that trains continue to run, at least mostly, and the safety of hundreds of thousands of passengers passing through such a station every day. They are projects that cost a lot of time and a lot of money, and sometimes also caused surprises. However, after sometimes the apparent chaos that exists, such a station still looks better and better. At some point the station is ready and will be delivered. I'm making the comparison with ProRail now. In the 1990s the railways were split and the infrastructure company is also at some distance from the Empire. We're 20 years away and things are still out of order. In 2011, the Parliamentary Research Committee on Maintenance and Innovation launched a very critical, if not destructive, report: insufficient visibility of money flows, short-term thinking, serious concerns about maintaining rail quality and lack of information. I am talking about 2011 and not about ProRail's internal report from 2014. Despite all the steps and promises, the train is still not on track. I'm gonna walk by a few cases. I'll start with rail maintenance. The parliamentary committee of inquiry has already indicated that ProRail has insufficient knowledge and what did the current top man say recently? Only 2 out of 4,000 employees know all about overhead lines. Track maintenance is still a child on hold. I'd say this has everything to do with business, doesn't it? I would like to hear a reflection of the Secretary of State on the question of whether or not all these positions are equally happy again. In that sense, Mr Van Helvert is, of course, quite right about how she sees her responsibility as a shareholder in this example. How far does she think it goes? Then the money flows. Internal research by ProRail shows that at least last year there was financial chaos. Does the Secretary of State recognize that? For example, the list of criticisms states that a provider itself had to address ProRail that it was entitled to a substantial volume discount under a contract. Then you're a long way from home in your operations, when your trading partner, your contract partner, has to point that out to you? Should we dismiss such criticism by saying that ProRail should not be approached as strictly as an ordinary business? No. A billion-dollar company with a monopoly position and public funding should not be magical with purses. The fact that ProRail didn't have everything financially in order was already known. Why, as a shareholder, did the Secretary of State accept the repeated refusal of the Supervisory Board to consult the internal investigations concerning the management of the company? In the position of shareholder, you could, you would say, make certain demands. I'd like to hear a reaction to that. I also noticed that yesterday's letter from the Secretary of State left some important things to be desired. The letter sent by Mr Alders states that ProRail believes that structuralally it is not getting enough money to carry out all the tasks. This sign on the wall leaves the Secretary of State unnamed. I'd like to hear a reflection from her on that. In addition, the review of the multiannual financial series shows that the Betuweline may be at great risk due to concrete rot and subsidence. In her response, the Secretary of State only talks about the HSL-South. I am not talking about the communication and information problems relating to the station projects and the procurement issues. They have already been sufficiently discussed. How is the Secretary of State going to make it clear to us that the problems will no longer be covered with the cloak of love? I invite her to convince my group that she has enough visual and control over things and that she really has and controls things in the short term where that is not the case. Or should the Secretary of State find that we can't manage with just a broom through management? In other words, how does the Secretary of State intend to prevent us from continuing to muddle so that this station is never finished and can be delivered?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u102	Mr. Chairman. We stand here to defend the interests of travellers and freight and we must ensure that taxpayers' money is spent properly. As far as I am concerned, it should be about the latter. I will therefore begin by complimenting you. The Secretary of State does not hide behind matters and wants to provide the Chamber with good, validated information and reports. For that, I congratulate her. However, I must point out that this is happening with a great deal of hesitation, that it requires the necessary encouragement and has been leaked first. Today, the committee has even explicitly asked for this information. However, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for that information, even though it came very late. As far as I am concerned, this is one key question. Where does the Secretary of State get the confidence that ProRail's finances will be clarified, and that all the processes relating to the maintenance and construction of rail infrastructure will work out? There seems to be a lack of money and knowledge. My concerns about the finances are extra serious because I listen and see that the deficits will be passed on to the region. I absolutely don't want to. If there are financial concerns, they should not be solved at the expense of the regions. Is the Secretary of State indeed going to make things work out? Is it prepared to share all relevant information directly with the Chamber, including its own comments?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u103	This brings to an end the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u104	Mr. Chairman. After the last few weeks, there is a great need for me to debate with you, the Chamber. I also think it is a good thing that we are discussing this with each other. I understand you're asking me a lot of questions. Based on many signals, mostly in the newspaper, you show concern. I understand. That expresses commitment and the strong desire to make things better. I share that wish with you. I am pleased that you have given me the opportunity to list a number of issues relating to the railways in order to reach the core of the concerns and then to assess whether I pay sufficient attention to those concerns. I too have concerns about the track, but I also have a lot of ambition and I see that things are changing on the track. I fulfill different roles, I have actions in different roles. Those actions also make things turn up. I'm about to deal with a number of issues. I'd also like to list for you what's going on. It concerns a variety of issues relating to rail and or ProRail, which are, however, sometimes of very different order. I hope you will give me the opportunity to structure these matters. Of course, you must be able to fulfil your role as a Chamber. I fully realize that. This means that you must be informed properly and in good time. That means I have to answer for taking decisions or making decisions. Relevant to you and me, it has to be good and workable information. Information verified. I consider it my duty to inform you properly and in good time. Therefore, I will indicate what I can provide to you when. I will go into the information, the maintenance and replacement series, the regional projects and all the questions you have asked. First of all, I would like to comment on the words spoken by Mr Slob of the Christian Union. Those words struck me. That was the reflection. Mr Slob presented a report from 2010 reflecting on the past. He asked me to reflect on what I'm doing. Looking back on the past three years I conclude that great steps have been taken, but that it is not perfect. With the Long Term Track Agenda, we have set up a common framework for the Chicken Commission to see how we can shape that long term so that we know where we are heading. I will also reflect on my three roles: the shareholder, the grant provider and the concession provider. Reflecting on what really needs to be better, on the issues where I have an important task to perform, it is about the signalling function, the expectations management.I think we should deal with this very well and continue to provide overview. Those were the things that struck me with the word "reflection."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u105	There are a lot of questions already. Mr. Van Helvert, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u106	We've already had a lecture from Mr Hoogland, and now we're getting one from the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State has specially come to this Chamber and walked past all the cameras because she wants to speak in the Chamber. The main question needs to be answered immediately: why were these reports in that drawer for so long? Why didn't we get it? We want to know the answer to that, of course, first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u107	I've indicated that I'd like to discuss the direction first. How's the steering going? Then, of course, I come to the question of information and management. I want to answer all the questions. I have a build-up in my story, so it's coherent. That's why I started this way. Of course, I'll get to that information question in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u108	That's not how it works. We have a pressing question here. With all due respect, we don't need another whole lecture on reflection. We would like to see that reflection in practice. That doesn't have to be a story in the Chamber. We would like to know why that report was in that drawer for so long and not shared with the Chamber. We are all very much wondering what the answer to that question is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u109	I also come to that question. Many more questions have been asked and I would like to answer them in a structured order. Of course, I do not intend not to answer that question, because I know that it is pressing for the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u110	But before we go into the content of all the questions, I would like to make the following point. The Chamber has asked a large number of questions about information. We wanted reports, but the Secretary of State didn't see them, didn't they, or they were on a website? That's how they came to the room. How does the Secretary of State view that trial? Is it true that Mr Alders has said that he will not send them and has he accepted them? What does the Secretary of State think about the provision of information to the Chamber on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u111	If the House will allow me, I would like to give a brief introduction to my speech and then I will come straight back to the questions raised by the groups of D66 and the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u112	I understand that the Secretary of State has a certain line in mind, but before we go into the content, we still need to reflect on the process through which we came to this debate. I am referring here to the report that has been requested and what the chairman of the Supervisory Board has refused to send to the Chamber. The Secretary of State has accepted that and we have received it through the media. Before we go into the whole process about ProRail, I would like a clear answer from the Secretary of State on this essential point of providing information to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u113	Of course I want to answer all the questions of the Chamber. This debate concerns, among other things, the management, maintenance and transport series. There has been a number of occasion for this debate and today the question about the report has been added. I will really go into that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u114	Mr. Van Helvert!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u115	I haven't said anything yet!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u116	Mr. Van Helvert, take it easy! You have all asked a great many questions and have all given your own emphasis to them. The Secretary of State indicated in her introduction that she would answer all these questions. I have now given two of you the opportunity to ask if the Secretary of State wishes to keep a different order and she will do so in her speech. I would suggest that this is not unreasonable, because you have all chosen your own accent in your term. Then there is plenty of room to go into the questions you still have. Mr Helvert, you can ask me a question and not the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u117	A point of order. That's not how it works. We do not need a piece that has been given to the Secretary of State for the Civil Service to read from A to Z. We want a debate. The main question is why the report was in the drawer. That is the question that has been asked. We're not gonna make a whole introduction, are we? We're not waiting for that, the Netherlands aren't, and neither is ProRail. Because the Secretary of State got it on her paper from the officials...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u118	I heard you, Mr Van Helvert. You're not in a debate with me. I note that ten speakers from the Chamber have all just been given the opportunity to ask questions. The idea behind a first deadline is that the Secretary of State will also answer those questions. It has now said in response to two questions that it will answer all the questions. I think you yourself have asked more than ten questions! It seems to me to be the quickest thing to do if we give the Secretary of State the opportunity to do so. We can continue to debate the answers. That doesn't seem unreasonable to me. That is best for the speed of the debate. It's clear that sometimes things don't always work out according to your wishes, but let's just give the Secretary of State a chance to answer all the questions. That's all it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u119	I have heard the Chamber correctly and I see a number of people who want to talk so urgently about this subject that I will answer it immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u120	So the Secretary of State will deal first with the section on the provision of information to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u121	In the run-up to the establishment of the annual accounts, the Supervisory Board intervened in response to a signal from the then CFO. Those are the internal reports received by the Chamber today. These documents date from before the adoption of the annual accounts and from before the auditor gave his approving statement. The first part of December 2014 deals with the shortcomings at the time. The second part of March 2015 deals with the state of improvement actions and the follow-up steps. These documents, as the Chamber knows, were produced on the instructions of the Supervisory Board. On the basis of these documents, it was decided to take a number of additional measures and hold the general meeting of shareholders (ava) at a later date. In the documents it is much about the control framework and the management of the financial column within ProRail. In the Ava and in the letter from the Supervisory Board, there was a reference to this. Financial management was discussed in the Ava in June 2015. It was discussed at the time that there was a hard work on improving ProRail's financial management and the ambition to tackle it this year. On the basis of the approach chosen, the auditor concluded that an approving statement could be issued. That is where I sail as a shareholder, as well as on the image of the supervisory board.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u122	This is exactly what I was afraid of and why I thought it was so important to discuss the trial point first. Our question to the Secretary of State does not primarily concern the agenda of the general meeting of shareholders. The question is another one. The Supervisory Board has a very critical report. It's what the Chamber's asking for. The chairman of the Supervisory Board says: you will not get it. And the Secretary of State accepts that. Then it comes to the Chamber via the media. I ask the Secretary of State for a reflection on that point. So I am not asking for all the technical details, but for a reflection on the provision of information to the Chamber. Does she think this turned out so well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u123	I welcome the fact that the Supervisory Board has requested this report. This is about business management, about the financial management of ProRail. Internal reports by ProRail on this issue are used by the Supervisory Board, through the Audit Board and the Auditor, for the preparation of improvement points in annual reports and financial improvement plans. At that time, I do not think it is appropriate for such reports to come from the shareholder. I think that's a matter for the organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u124	Here is the question: who is the boss? Is that the Secretary of State? Or is that Hans Alders? Can Hans Alders...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u125	ProRail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u126	... in his letter: I do not provide this information? Or is the Secretary of State in charge as shareholder? If she is in charge as a shareholder, that consideration is up to her and we can ask her about it. Now the letter from the Supervisory Board said: I do not wish to provide this. So my question to the Secretary of State is: who's in charge?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u127	I don't think that's the key question. The point is: how are the responsibilities divided and who is addressed to what? I believe that the board of directors is in charge as far as the organisation ProRail is concerned. I believe that the Supervisory Board oversees the organisation. And I think the shareholder is about ownership. This means that, as far as I am concerned, once a year, we have a shareholders' meeting twice a year, which reports on progress in the organisation's operation. However, NS and ProRail were put at a distance, I think a little over twenty years ago. Then it was said: it becomes an e.g. and a government-nv. In this way, the organisations are also controlled. I told the Chamber, on the Long Term Track Agenda, that I think it is important that we deal with each other differently and change our direction. This applies not only to ProRail, for which I have several roles, but also to the NS, of which I manage the transport concession. I think it is important that we should be better steered in all roles, including in the role of shareholders. But then it does apply: steering as a shareholder. This does not mean that internal reports of organisations are on the board with the shareholder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u128	This is exactly the heart of the problem. The Secretary of State is responsible for the railing and sailing. Now, through the report, she gets the idea that ProRail is very wrong. And then she says, "It's not up to me to do anything with that right now." I say this all the more because, as early as 2013, the entire Chamber adopted a motion by my colleague, Mr De Graaf, which states that you need to do better, you need to communicate better with the Chamber. We've asked the Secretary of State over and over again. Over and over again she has promised to communicate better with the Chamber. And now she comes up with the story: yes, I do have a report, but I'm not going to communicate it with the Chamber. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u129	I just described that we have different roles. A role is that of a concession holder, in which we have made the concession agreed by the Chamber. A concession that controls the organisation in a different way, tighter and more transparent. These are words that are also important for the Chamber. Within the grant-giving role, the major projects should be presented more transparently to the Court. I shared that with the Room in the AO. The information is too divided, too diffuse. I think it is important for us to take a different approach in the direction and to inform the Chamber better and more transparently. Within the shareholder role we stand at a distance. The shareholder is not the person responsible for the day-to-day operation. It is done by the Management Board and the Supervisory Board. That's the model. We have also had an extensive structural discussion on whether or not to organise it differently. I've come to the conclusion with the Chamber that we're not going to do that. We do say that there are a number of looming errors in the way it is now organized. We think the NS and ProRail should work together better. We also believe that the cooperation between ProRail and the Ministry should be different: better, more transparent, more effective. That's the business I'm meeting with the Chamber. It fits within the shareholder role that it should be filled in as it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u130	The Secretary of State is a shareholder for the people in the country who pay taxes to drive the trains. The Secretary of State is now getting a report showing that it's a financial mess and she's gonna hang back, do nothing with it and say it's not her role. Her party mate Alders says: "Don't do that in the Chamber for a while, because that's not convenient for me. You can't do this! It is for a secretary of state to intervene if ProRail fails financially; that is why she is a shareholder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u131	In ProRail's letter you can read that it is not going perfectly and that it needs to be improved. I also think it should be improved and I see that things are getting better. That's not gonna go without a fight. I can't guarantee you that things won't turn up anymore. I can guarantee that if an employee in the organisation says that something goes wrong here or there, it will act on it. This is a call made by the CEO of ProRail to the organization. Changes are taking place now, there is much better consideration of the financial management of the company. This can be read back in the letter from ProRail. This is important to me as a shareholder. It is important to be responsible and to improve the processes towards transparent and sound financial management.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u132	Do I understand correctly that the Secretary of State has just told Mrs Van Veldhoven that the chairman of the Supervisory Board, Mr Alders, can say to the shareholder, the Secretary of State, that he refuses to give her the documents?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u133	The President-in-Office of ProRail gave it to me when I asked for the documents. I forwarded them to the Chamber and gave them a qualification by letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u134	I understand that Mr Alders, the chairman of the Supervisory Board, can do that. Now the Secretary of State says that the CFO has given documents, but that's someone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u135	I don't think I've expressed myself well, or at least not been clear to the CDA Group. Mr Alders, the President-in-Office of the Council, stated that he did not consider it necessary to provide the documents because they were shared with the auditor and the audit committee and that the consistency of the annual accounts took place a little later, precisely in order to include this report in the auditor's recommendations. That's why it stayed in the organization. After I asked for that report to be sent to me this afternoon, Mr Alders did so and I forwarded it to the Chamber with the qualification.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u136	Just now the Secretary of State didn't want to go to these questions, but now she's going a little too fast. Before the Secretary of State sent the reports to the Chamber today, she refused to send those documents to the Chamber. We received a letter yesterday with an annex, in which the President-in-Office of ProRail says that everything is going great. Today, through a large newspaper, we have heard that there are shocking reports, after which the Secretary of State was asked by the committee to send those documents to the Chamber. Then the Secretary of State sent them to the Chamber. That's the order. Who decided yesterday not to send those documents, those reports, to the Chamber? Was that the Secretary of State or the President-in-Office of ProRail?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u137	I've decided not to send them to the Chamber. In the end, I was responsible for not sending that to you yesterday. I have also given the qualification why I have made comments. That's what I did in today's letter. I think the pieces are part of ProRail's operations. I have said that these pieces do not in themselves give a complete picture of the situation at ProRail. The information has not been validated and the information is not put into context. I just did. I also put forward further arguments in the letter for not setting a precedent and why I did it today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u138	That is remarkable, because the Chamber has expressly asked for these documents. The newspaper had a message about it. The media knew what was going on and the Chamber didn't know it. We specifically asked for this through the committee at that time. So the Secretary of State actually says: I had those documents too, they were in my drawer, and I decided not to inform the Chamber. Then what difference does it make with today? Why did the Secretary of State decide today to inform the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u139	I have decided to send this by way of exception because this has been published.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u140	I'd like to continue with the division of roles between the Secretary of State and Hans Alders. That's what statutes are for. Will the statutes allow the President-in-Office not to give a piece to the Secretary of State or give a piece to the Secretary of State, but to the express wish that it is not shared with the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u141	As I said, I asked for the documents today and I sent them to you for reasons which I indicated in a letter. I'm gonna repeat myself now. I always find that very difficult, but I think it is relevant in this case. You look at the role of the shareholder, the role of the supervisory board and the role of the board of directors. That is the choice we made about the design of the model, apart from a number of looming errors that I would like to get rid of, for example as regards the cooperation with NS et cetera. At that time, we're laying down the business with the board of directors. At that time, we have a supervisory function in the management of the supervisory board. As a shareholder, I'm further away from the day-to-day operation. I think it is important that I direct ProRail to the agreements that have been made there through the concession. Through my funding role, I deal with the agreements I make on transparency, the implementation of large projects, their budgeting and the handling of interim adjustments. When it comes to business management, and looking at this report in this case, I think that this report has been handled very accurately in the organisation. That's where it belongs. For me, the anchor point I see is that an audit committee has discussed it, that an auditor is aware of it and that the auditor has involved this report in his approving statement and in assessing the improvement steps taken in ProRail's financial management. That's what I trust. That's the expert.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u142	That was a very long answer, but not to the question I asked. I asked what it says in the statutes. How is it legally settled between the shareholder, the Secretary of State, and the President Commissioner? Does he have the legal opportunity at all to say: I do not want a piece to go to the Lower House? Does he have that possibility, or does he not have that possibility formally?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u143	He does not have that possibility, because the moment I request it, it will also be sent. Only I gave an opinion on this, including in the letter. I asked for it for my magical reasons. I think the report belongs in the organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u144	So he's exceeded his responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u145	No, Mrs. Van Tongeren, we'd do interruptions in half. I give the floor to Mr Slob.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u146	Formally, the Secretary of State is, of course, right to indicate how the responsibilities are invested and how to report back and forth. But it's a little too easy to think about what's been happening structuralally and for years. In 2005 there was already a large report on ProRail, in which there were major concerns about the control. I myself mentioned the year 2010. Even then, it was a big topic in the Chamber. The Chicken Commission was then set up and made a clear recommendation. There was a need to put things in order. However, I understand from the letter from the President-in-Office of ProRail that the Secretary of State was informed orally at the annual meeting about the content of the report, but without sharing the reports with her. Didn't all the alarms go off on her?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u147	Of course you know there are concerns. That's what I said. For me, at that time, in the shareholders' meeting, it was the most important that I knew that the shareholders' meeting had been postponed precisely for that reason. The meeting had just been postponed to ensure that the report could be integrated into the way in which financial management would be handled further. Mr Alders' letter also shows that it is not only positive. There are some very critical points in it. For me, the most important thing was that it appeared that the audit committee had discussed it, and that the auditor had taken the report and had considered whether some of the items contained in it should be taken into account or could have an impact on the approving statement. That's where I lay that responsibility at the time. As a shareholder, I am not going to sit in the seat of one of the other parties, either on the seat of the board of directors or on the seat of the supervisory board, the auditor or the audit committee. That is a very conscious way of doing things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u148	But then it becomes clear at such a time that there are still major problems with the direction and that there is a report somewhere whose content is only communicated orally. I might even say: please give me that report, because I want to know a little bit more about it. We have read it now and I am really shocked by the points on which the finger is being put. We know how long this discussion has been going on. Doesn't it turn out that the structure isn't right? Formally, it may be true what the Secretary of State says: it is their responsibility and their report and she will eventually test them in a different way. However, that is what is causing the problems, and that is why we are always following the facts. And that is with all the problems of that, including for the Secretary of State. She has to answer here every time for the misery that has arisen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u149	Mr Slob raises a rather fundamental question here: does this structure not appear to be wrong? I do not know how many companies have this structure, with a board of directors, a supervisory board and a shareholder. I don't think the problem is in the structure. If you take responsibility in this structure and work in a good way, I think it is actually workable. Of course, I realise that there have obviously been problems with financial management for a long time. That is also why this is high on the list for both the auditor and the audit committee as well as for the supervisory board. But it's also high on my list. And that is not only because of my role as a shareholder, in which I look at how the financial structure is implemented within the organisation. That's what my other two roles are for. Is that too many hats and rollers? No, I think they connect very well. From the grant-giving role, I had a strong discussion with the Chamber about how you deal with adjustments. I'll be back in a minute on management, maintenance and replacement. But how do you deal with it when an adjustment that can be explained comes as a surprise, right? How do we manage these expectations? I already told the Chamber I'd have a research firm look at two major projects. How do you analyse the course of such a project and the moments of reporting? Unfortunately, Mr Van Helvert and Mr Bashir did not recognize the agreements we made. I'm sorry to hear that, because you make arrangements in such a role about the times you report on. But apparently, expectations management is not good. However, I believe that the role of shareholders, which Mr Slob specifically asks for, should be filled in in this way. I also have a very specific interpretation for the other two roles.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u150	I'm really surprised here. The Secretary of State is a shareholder and a grant provider. It is also politically responsible. If it turns out that the way in which taxpayers' money is handled is not in order, namely that there is no proper administration, so that there would be room for fraud or budgets to be spent efficiently, the Secretary of State really does not show ownership at all. It has previously been updated by the Supervisory Board on this issue. Has she really not felt any urge to say: I want to read that report, I want to see how serious it really is? Did she really only make the request this afternoon to get that piece and read it? I'm really surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u151	For me, it's important that there's an approval statement from an accountant. It assesses the progress year in, year out. I think it is very important that this approving statement was postponed at the shareholders' meeting precisely in order to look at this report and see how it can be anchored. For me, it is most important that there is a transparent and visible approach to improvement, because I do not want to get into the situation that we will be there in five years' time where Mr Slob gave a reflection on, namely in the situation of 2005 and 2010. I think it is important to take a step forward. For that, I need the accountant, an audit committee, the board of directors, the management board and the supervisory board.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u152	Now the Secretary of State is doing exactly the same again. As a shareholder and a grantor, you want to know what happens to your money, don't you? If there are signs that it's problematic, don't you want to know how big the problems are? This doesn't matter if you want to interfere with the solution. Last week, more than a week ago, the signals were in the newspaper for the first time. Did the Secretary of State really not think until this afternoon: gosh, it's interesting to read that report yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u153	Those signals were there and there's been an act on them. I think it is important that we act financially in the broadest sense on all these signals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u154	You can actively be a shareholder and actively see if things are going well with the organisation. However, you can also be very lazy and think: I can see it, I'll wait and see. It seems that the Secretary of State chooses the latter, but of course that is not possible. Because the Secretary of State is responsible for the well-being on the track and for all those travelers on the train who have to buy far too expensive train tickets. I would now like to ask about the role of the Commissioners, because the Secretary of State says that they are waiting to see what the Commissioners will say. But we are dealing here with Commissioners who disagree. Moreover, Mr Alders, the President-in-Office of the Council, says that I do not wish to interfere with my business. Is the Secretary of State really mad at those commissioners? When is she going to intervene with these Commissioners? In my view, it is the role of the Secretary of State to appoint or dismiss the Commissioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u155	I would remind you that a large part of the Supervisory Board has changed over the past year, even more so: in the short term. In addition, the Management Board has been amended. I'm active in the appointments there. I think that active shareholdership means that we have a shareholders' meeting twice a year, not once a year, but from this year on, two times a year, both in May and in November, where all these kinds of items are actively on the agenda, in particular financial management.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u156	It now seems that a number of Commissioners have left and that the very critical Commissioners were. The Commissioner who stays is Mr Alders, a party colleague of the Secretary of State, who does not want to bring it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u157	I understand that this happens occasionally, but will we just try to say "President Commissioner"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u158	Yeah, but this is a serious point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u159	I understand that, but we usually try to avoid names of people who do not participate in the debate as much as possible. I'm trying to point that out to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u160	Some Commissioners who I will not mention by name have left. Looks like those were the critical Commissioners. But the Commissioner who says 'keep that report under the hat' remains. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u161	There is no question of keeping things under wraps. The reports have been actively asked for in the organisation and the reports have also been actively acted on. The interim CFO has also stated in its report that it supports the approach already adopted to the issue and has indicated how it intends to accelerate it. His recommendation to pay extra attention to the closure of the year because he suspected a number of uncertainties has been followed. The additional work carried out in connection with the closure of the year has led to improvements. On this the auditor concluded that an approval certificate could be issued. All this is without prejudice to the fact that there are points of improvement, but these have been mapped out and the auditor has issued an approval statement, following the information he had. He later came up with this report because it was there, requested by the Supervisory Board. I therefore believe that there has been active action in the place where that should be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u162	By the way, an audit opinion is not a licence, so no one has to do anything or even have to look out for it. I have a question about the role of the Supervisory Board. The report we received through De Telegraaf states that ProRail was not financially in control. If that is in a report, does the Secretary of State not think that the Supervisory Board should immediately inform the shareholder?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u163	The Supervisory Board informed the shareholder and asked for this report itself and provided it to the auditor and discussed it. In short, there's been an active act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u164	The Secretary of State himself just said that the general meeting of shareholders was being moved to June. She was very happy about that herself. I wonder how it works, given that it is the only shareholder. I assume she's getting a call, and they're saying it's off. How does a phone call go, I wonder. Then you ask what's really the reason it's going to be resistance and if something's going on? The minute you know that, don't you have to act on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u165	It's been reported to be later. We have separated the roles of shareholder, grantor and concession provider within the Ministry. That might be a clearer indication of how we fill out those roles. At a time when there is contact and an explanation is given as to why it is later, I think it is logical that we should have a later shareholders' meeting. It is important, however, that we hear about the auditor and the audit committee. It is also important to know how that process has gone through, what are the signals that come from it and how we find them in the improvement plans, in the audit report and in the explanations thereof.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u166	The Secretary of State is trying to complicate things. She talks about the roles of the shareholder, the grantor and the concession provider, and she pretends to be three different persons. No, it is one and the same person, this Secretary of State, who is ultimately responsible for this. It may be that she has divided those roles in the Ministry among all different officials who do the work, but in the end it is this State Secretary who is responsible for this. The question that was just asked was: why did the Secretary of State not send that report to the Chamber until today? The Secretary of State replied that she requested the report from ProRail and immediately sent it to the Chamber. That can't be both true. When was the Secretary of State informed about this report? When did she read it? Can she give us a timeline?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u167	In the shareholders' meeting, the report was reported for the first time. This meeting explained how the report was processed. I received the report this afternoon and forwarded it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u168	So if the report was discussed in the shareholders' meeting, it happened to the Department of the Secretary of State. This was done under the responsibility of this Secretary of State. The Secretary of State now says she was only informed about it today, but it can't be both. The Secretary of State is also the shareholder of ProRail. If its officials have been informed, the State Secretary has also been informed. Why did the Secretary of State wait so long to get to know the report?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u169	I am sorry that I have not made myself clear to Mr Bashir. The report was discussed orally at the shareholders' meeting and I requested it from the supervisory board this afternoon. Then I sent it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u170	I appreciate the integrity of the State Secretary's administration. She makes a careful distinction between administrative responsibility, responsibility as a grantor and responsibility as a shareholder and concession provider. That's to be commended. However, it has just been mentioned that this construction leads to friction, discontent and a feeling of unease. You're wondering if the case is under sufficient control. Suppose this structure is maintained, what instruments does the Secretary of State have at her disposal in order to prevent us from being back here in a year and a half with the same degree of irritation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u171	That's actually a very good question. In my piece of reflection, I just indicated this. I believe that the management of expectations and the way in which the alert is sent should be changed and improved. It needs to be more transparent. People are not supposed to be surprised or interpret information in the wrong way as we take all kinds of regular steps. I think it's a very fair question. I think it is important for the management of ProRail itself to look closely at financial management. I also want those improvements to be made. I am thinking, for example, of the management, maintenance and replacement series. It is very good that ProRail signals that there will be tension. At some point it became clear that there was indeed a tension, but we couldn't really get the finger behind it and we didn't know how much tension that was. Then PricewaterhouseCoopers and two more offices I thought was important for a number of months to see how that process went. How do you manage to make a possible tension, a possible shortage, that can occur between 2018 and 2028, transparent? How do you make insight into how big it is? How do you make it manageable at the front, so that we do not have to find out in 2019 that there is a setback in a year and we do not know how that happened? I tried that with the management, maintenance and replacement series. It is about a lot of money, over 13 billion to 2028. What's with the tension? I will come back to this in a moment, but I will give you a sneak peek: so look at the indexation and at a number of measures called PricewaterhouseCoopers. At that moment, you're at the front of a process and you can see what you can influence and where you can't. I'm not saying it's easy, because it means you're facing dilemmas, because the budgets are tight and there's tension on them. This applies to the whole range of budgets, because all the investment money is almost spent until 2028. However, this is the way I want to steer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u172	The Secretary of State makes it very clear that she wants it to change. The question that lingers is how she will implement her will. I doubt it's just a financial story. This is, of course, an aspect. I would like to suggest that we reflect on this in detail and include the committee in this with a note. We can then have a discussion about how we are going to deal with this. In fact, we all want the same thing, but we have a different assessment of which tools are at our disposal. I would be grateful if we could discuss this with the Secretary of State to prevent us from standing here again in a year's time with all sorts of unpleasant feelings.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u173	I think this too is a good question, because I think we should talk about it. Mr Bishop says that he doubts that it is only a financial story. In addition, we will look at the major projects to see how the processes are going there. It is not just the financial aspect, but also the question of how it is planned, when it is indicated and how it can be changed. I have analyses carried out on two very large projects, namely DoorStroomStation Utrecht and OV SAAL. I do that because I want to see a different report, so that you as a Chamber will not be surprised and the manageability of such projects will become much more transparent. Very often, a project does not have the duration of our parliamentary term, but it can last eight to twenty years. At the station Arnhem we've been on the road for 20 years. I think we should do these processes differently. I also said in the AO that I think we should report differently to the Chamber and that we should always report to the Chamber in the same format as regards the major projects from the beginning to the end, so that we can see where adjustments are taking place and on what arguments. I agree with Mr Bishop that it is not just about the financial picture. So, yeah, I'd really like to talk to the Chamber about it. In fact, that's why, if it's okay, next week we'll have the overview of major stations, and I'll also show you how I look at them. In November, I get the investigations into the trials. I want to talk to the Chamber about this, because expectations management, alerting, reporting and information really need to be improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u174	The Secretary of State couldn't answer me just now. I've been looking into it for confirmation. The statutes say, of course, that the Secretary of State has full power over all decisions. How do we reconcile that with Hans Alders' quote in the NRC?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u175	Shall we...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u176	The Ministry asked: the Chamber wants the documents, can it? Hans Alders, the President-in-Office of ProRail said... in the paper was Hans Alders, chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u177	I don't want to be there every time...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u178	I know, but I'm reading a quote for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u179	I know, but I just want to explain. I don't want to say anything about it every time, but I think we should all try to avoid this. That's how we stand in it. So you're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u180	How does the Secretary of State reconcile the statutes, which say that the Secretary of State has full authority over all decisions, with the President Commissioner's reply that it is a matter for the Supervisory Board? Also the letter from the President-in-Office, signed by his own name, says that the Council sees no reason to disclose the relevant internal documents. Did the Secretary of State resign himself to this, or did the President-in-Office go beyond his authority here by saying: Secretary of State, that's none of your business, that's up to us? What is it, one or the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u181	The Supervisory Board has an opinion on how it intends to fulfil its role. I told the Chamber that I requested the report today and forwarded it. I agree with the Supervisory Board and the Management Board, as the roles and responsibilities now lie, on how this report has been handled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u182	The Secretary of State therefore agreed that the report had not been forwarded; her opinion on this was in line with that of the President-in-Office. Yet, contrary to her better understanding, she did send the report to the Chamber today. So the media can force something, which the House of Representatives cannot do, in its view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u183	I would like to refer to the letter I sent with the reports. It gives full clarity about the answer to the question why I chose to request the report and forward it to the Chamber, but the letter also makes it clear that this does not set a precedent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u184	I would like to refer to the answer given by the Secretary of State to a question by Mr Bashir about the shareholders' meeting. When I hear the Secretary of State, I get the impression that it was just a very pleasant meeting: it's the end of the season, it's summer, a barbecue is added, the Secretary of State is there and the President-in-Office, whose name we can't say, is there. A report needs to be discussed, because it was postponed for a month. That will then be discussed orally at the barbecue, in a garden chair I would almost say, but that was a different debate. That report simply states that ProRail is not financially in control and that is discussed orally. Is that the way in which you, as a shareholder, engage in that debate with the supervisory board?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u185	A kind of barbecue meeting is being sketched out, but I do not think this is a subject of hilarious imagery at all; I leave that entirely to Mr Van Helvert. If he had listened carefully, he would have heard me say that the shareholders' meeting was postponed because this report, requested by the supervisory board, was processed, discussed with the audit committee and discussed with the auditor. The accountant had the report, also reviewed it and considered it before he gave the approving statement. This has been discussed with the audit committee and an improvement plan has been put in place to support the auditor. As far as I am concerned, this kind of conversation does not take place in the entourage that Mr Van Helvert is talking about. That and the way he conducts his meetings, I leave it to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u186	Then I learned a wise lesson. The Secretary of State does use the barbecue not to answer my question: how is it possible that you discuss such an important report, for which a shareholders' meeting is postponed for a month and which states that ProRail is not financially in control, only orally?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u187	If the organization were not financially in control at that time, as Mr Van Helvert puts it now, the auditor would not have issued an affirmative statement either. Precisely that report was reviewed by the accountant before he issued an approval statement. As far as I am concerned, that is at the heart of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u188	For this report, the shareholders' meeting was postponed for one month. Nevertheless, without having read the report at all, the Secretary of State says: I don't need to know anything about this; this is internal business. How could she know if she didn't see and read the report? I would like to know exactly what, in the words of the President-in-Office of ProRail, "some things" is discussed with the Secretary of State. There's got to be a report on that. I'd like that report. I would like to know what 'this is' about which the Secretary of State has been informed and which has led her to the conclusion that it concerns internal management and that she does not have to read the report, despite all the reports that appear about it in the media at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u189	I have said that, as far as I am concerned, such internal reports fall within the scope of internal management. The fact that the President-in-Office of the Supervisory Board asks the CFO for that report is a matter of good supervision. After all, the directors of the organisation are asked to show what financial management is like. When the report appears and when the content is discussed with the auditor and the audit committee, the report is therefore placed in the right place, so that it can be assessed whether there is sufficient control. I think it is important that it went that way. This means that it is an internal report and that, as far as I am concerned, it can remain an internal report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u190	I can't get an answer to my question. My question was very specific. The President-in-Office of ProRail himself states in his letter that "everything" has been discussed with the Secretary of State. For me, it is very important to hear from the Secretary of State exactly what that meant. Nothing else has been explained. It has just been said that there is a report and that has passed through the accountants, so it's okay. The Secretary of State has settled for that. What's "everything" that's been discussed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u191	You can read that back in the President's letter. One of the issues discussed was the registration and management of assets, the management of grant flows, the accuracy of the costs of the PGO contracts and advances. The opinions on the auditor's report have been shared and for me it is important that I find the improvement points in the area of financial management indicated by the CFO at the request of the Supervisory Board. You will find those points. I have given the shareholders' meeting with the auditor's opinion of an approving statement sufficient confidence to leave that report in the organization in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u192	The President-in-Office of the Council refuses to hand over the report to the Secretary of State with this important content. Then it's in De Telegraaf. Doesn't the Secretary of State feel enormous in her shirt?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u193	I have wondered how an organisation will deal with internal reports in the future when they go outside in this way and in this context. Okay, it's happening. I gave you my opinion on the report and how I judged how it was handled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u194	You didn't do anything with the report. That's the point. You have taken note of the contents of the report, but you are doing nothing else. Then it lies with De Telegraaf and the Secretary of State stands here defending himself with words like "well, I shouldn't have known." You can't do that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u195	This is a very strange expression of what I have just said. It is a very relevant report and it has been properly discussed. The auditor has given an opinion and the points of improvement are included in an improvement plan monitored by the auditor. It is important that the organization deals with this in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u196	This morning we were able to read the reports via De Telegraaf. We've been watching them, and what's in it for us? That there is under-staffing, that 50% of the financial staff are not in the right place and are therefore dismotivated massively. The finances are kept in Excel files, the head of finance is not in the accounts and there is even talk of possible fraud. Are all these aspects that struck me when I read the report also discussed orally with the Secretary of State at the shareholders' meeting?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u197	Not all aspects of the report were discussed in the shareholders' meeting. The main points of the report and the observations which have been of interest to the auditor have been discussed. In the letter from the President-in-Office, you can read back how some of these issues have been dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u198	When I read the letter from the President-in-Office of ProRail, these aspects do not occur. In fact, it is said that there is a wrong picture of ProRail in the media. It's said that things are written in the media that don't add up. I think that's contrary to what's in the report. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether the aspects I mentioned have been discussed orally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u199	I have just answered that. I do not share Mr Bashir's view that this would not have happened. The Supervisory Board writes precisely about the abuses encountered by the Board and how they were reported in the annual reports. A wide-ranging investigation has been launched to determine whether these were incidents or structural problems. I do not share the view that this would not have been discussed. In fact, it is explicitly mentioned in the letter from ProRail which I forwarded to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u200	Mr Slob, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u201	Mr. Chairman. I want to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u202	You're addressing me, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u203	Yes. This debate is now half an hour away and we are still trying to find out exactly what happened at the shareholders' meeting: what was discussed and what was not? The questions we ask are simply not answered. I mentioned a number of things. Surely it can't be so hard for the Secretary of State to go into that? You could help us with that a little bit, otherwise we'll keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u204	I am helping you in the sense that I am giving you all the opportunity to answer all these questions, or I mean to ask them. You'd also like to answer them yourself. I get that. That's how I try to do it. I give you the opportunity to do that time and time again. I can help you by asking the Secretary of State to answer a little less, because the Members of Parliament may feel that they are getting an answer to the question they have asked and not to a question they have not asked. I shall now give the floor to Mr Slob.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u205	I have one more question about the letter sent by the President-in-Office of the Council and which went to us through the Secretary of State. For example, he writes that he saw no reason to disclose those internal documents, which eventually happened. He writes: it has been discussed with the shareholder and has concluded to have confidence in the approach. My question to the Secretary of State is what that confidence was based on, even now that we know what was in those reports that were passed on to her orally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u206	Trust is based on the way in which the auditor handled this report and on the list of improvement points drawn up together with the auditor and which would be worked on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u207	For the Secretary of State, therefore, it is particularly important that there should be an auditor's mark in the exercise of shareholdership. At the moment that's okay, that's for her reason to give the green light to move on. I ran into cases in the report, for example with the organization. Then you see that there are still big holes there and that even in important positions there are no people. You can see that there is still a lot of mistrust, also towards the ProRail summit and the Supervisory Board. The points of improvement are not things that you solve in the short term, but which can cause major problems in implementation. I'd like to have some real focus on what the Secretary of State is sending. It is a shareholder, but it must also safeguard the public interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u208	That is a fair question, Mr Slob. We are now discussing the financial section, as expressed by some of your colleagues through the President. What I also think is important and what you mention is, of course, the piece of culture. How do you handle business? Is there an open culture in an organisation, people feel senang to report things and is there a follow-up? How are agreements made on management, maintenance and replacement? What about asset management? Is that the right way? Are there indeed vacancies or departments that need attention? I think that's the strength of the new CEO. He's trying to get that up. He has also been open in interviews about how he looks at that organization, who has to endure changes. Because I think it's wider. On only the financial story, you can of course put experts: PricewaterhouseCoopers, but also the accountant. However, we are talking about more. It's a piece of culture and change. I must not give too long an answer from the President, but I can come back to a number of points where improvements and changes are also taking place, not being the financial aspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u209	A few things may have been dealt with side by side, but I would like to look at the measures taken in response to the report since it appeared. Can the Secretary of State go into that? What measures have been taken since then?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u210	That too is a fair question. An improvement approach has been announced. That is why I want a second shareholders' meeting in November, instead of once a year in May. I think that's important. It is precisely because of the improvement approach that is not only financial, but also because of the other parts of the organisation where shortcomings have been identified and where we expect improvements, there is a second shareholders' meeting. It is November, six months later, to follow up precisely on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u211	During these shareholders' meetings, the Secretary of State intends to look into the measures to improve the situation? That is where it wants to discuss these measures and whether the improvements have been properly implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u212	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u213	For the fifth time, I see some spokesmen standing at the interrupting microphone asking a question about the same point. The Secretary of State has so far devoted three minutes and sixteen seconds to answering the questions raised in the first term. The answer will deal with the questions which are also being discussed during the interruptions. Let us give the Secretary of State the opportunity to answer the other questions raised in the first term. That is what the Chamber needs. I see some spokesmen shaking no now. In their first term, they also asked questions which still have to be answered. That is why I am making this proposal. Anyone who is currently on an interrupting microphone will have one more opportunity for me to ask a question on this subject. After that, I am really going to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to give a few answers to questions that have just been referred to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u214	I'll come back to that shareholders meeting. That's the point the Secretary of State is getting over so easily. She herself says that the report that was discussed there is a relevant report. She's the only shareholder. We are also talking about a great deal of money. The shareholders' meeting will be postponed for a month specifically for that report. However, that report will only be discussed orally at the shareholders' meeting. The Secretary of State does not see the report itself. That report says that ProRail is not financially in control. If she looks back on this, what does the Secretary of State think of her not asking through at the time? What does she think of her not saying at the shareholders' meeting: 'Dear people, thank you for the explanation', but I would also like to see the report?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u215	The report has been dealt with very comprehensively orally. There has been a great deal of talk about finance. I told Mr Slob just now that not only has there been talk about finance, but that things have also been more widely discussed. There has been talk of a piece of culture. How do you use and hold change processes? In fact, we can learn from the past that we need to be more consistent and better management of expectations. It is also necessary to create an environment in which these changes are continued.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u216	This is exactly why I interrupted the Secretary of State at the beginning of her speech when she gave a lecture on self-reflection. I just asked her a question about self-reflection. I asked what she thought, in retrospect, that she didn't ask through at that shareholders' meeting. I'll ask the question differently. Suppose it was last June again and the shareholders' meeting would be held again. What if that important report were to be discussed again? The Secretary of State is the sole shareholder. Would she say, if she had to do it again, "Dear people, could I have a look at that report?"
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u217	I would act exactly the same way, including the future. We are going to look at what happened every six months. What has been observed and how do we make the changes? So how do we look back in November on what happened at the points of improvement, at the financial level, but also at a broader level?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u218	The Secretary of State says she wants to look at the situation every six months, both financially and politically. However, she did not look, but only discussed matters. The issues have been discussed extensively, but she has not taken note of the content of the report. She says she didn't get this report until today. How can you agree on points of improvement if you do not know what the points of improvement were based on? How can you make those appointments if you haven't taken note of the contents of the report? How did the Secretary of State test whether the points of improvement were actually the points of improvement needed to address the problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u219	I am talking to a supervisory board, to a board of directors, to an accountant and to an audit committee. Exactly they are the ones responsible for both the management and supervision of that business and an independent assessment. I rely on their expertise. That applies to all subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u220	So the Secretary of State will also take an oral look at the organisation's position at the general shareholders' meeting next time. Then, on the basis of what others say or indicate on the spot, she will decide that everything is going well. This isn't the way you're supposed to watch things as a finalist for such a large organization, is it? This is not about small beer. It's not about a euro or two. We're talking about billions here. It's about rail safety, it's about a lot more than an accountant can see. In the end, the Secretary of State is ultimately responsible. How can you agree improvement points if you don't know what's going on if you haven't taken notice of the report? I find it really, really incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u221	What went this way in June will not go this way in November. I think it's important that a progress report provides insight. I do not think that there was any error in June. I think everyone did the right thing. However, I do think that we have learned from the situation in the past that I have been able to learn more widely than that day. We have seen that financial management was not in order and we have learned how we wanted it to be permanent. I will therefore enter the shareholders' meeting with a different commitment from November. I think it is important that the issues remain thoroughly discussed, but also that we take such steps forward that we do not get into a situation as Mr Bishop has just described, namely that we are in the same position here in one and a half years' time. That's exactly what I'm trying to prevent. I would like to make one more point about the ease with which the word security just came along. It is said: because this is about safety. Our trail's clear. There are a lot of other routes on that, with the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u222	It's getting a little cocky now. In reply to Mr Van Helvert's question, the Secretary of State replied: next time I would do it exactly like this again. Next, to say that at the next shareholders' meeting she wants to do things differently, because it has to be followed carefully, while at the first shareholders' meeting she did not take note of the report because it was not relevant to her. I think it's a wonderful reasoning. The Secretary of State says: I didn't have to do that, because there was an audit report; there was an external auditor and I base myself on that. The reports in question state that "The current relations with the external auditor should be reviewed. In addition, the depth and quality of parts of the audits of the annual accounts of recent years can be questioned. The same applies to insufficient active detection of structural gaps in the control framework. The latter also partly applies to the lack of effective alert by the internal audit." Finally, it says: "Despite the many work that has been done, there is still insufficient substance for presenting the annual figures without heavy qualifications. Managers FC and SSC have indicated that they do not yet have sufficient confidence in the quality of the figures. ProRail will be in the danger zone in terms of financial situation in the coming period." The Secretary of State has just stated that this report was discussed extensively at the shareholders' meeting. Have these comments also been brought to the attention of the Secretary of State before expressing her confidence in everything presented on the basis of the accountant?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u223	With regard to the cases reported on the finances, I have found the auditor's assessment of them to be very important. I also think it is important that this was looked at thoroughly before the audit report was issued. I think it is important that there is an improvement plan which I think should be implemented. That's why I'm having another shareholders' meeting in November. In fact, I believe that we should stay on course and discuss the improvement plan over and over again. Next year the improvements made in the financial administration will be reviewed again by the auditor. Therefore, I do not think it is relevant at this time to review this report rule by rule, as D66 is doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u224	The Secretary of State bases her entire argument on the fact that she didn't even have to read this report before deciding that it wouldn't go to the Chamber because, based on everything the accountants said about it, she had such a solid faith that it was all right. However, the report itself states that relations with the external auditor must be reviewed and that the quality and depth of the audit have been questioned for many years. Was that criticism also discussed in the shareholders' meeting?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u225	I didn't exactly discuss the exact points in front of the glasses. The report has been discussed orally and has been acted on by the attendees. This means that not only did this happen financially, but there was also a board of directors and a supervisory board to supervise the organisation. In this way, it is embedded in the audit report and in the improvement points, and that way I will also follow up on it. The alert is from March 2015. After that, actions were taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u226	Mr. Hoogland?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u227	A point of order, because we are really stupid.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u228	If it's a point of order, you'll be discussing it with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u229	We were stunned by the way things are going at those shareholders' meetings. We are talking about huge amounts of money, billions of dollars.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u230	Your point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u231	The Secretary of State doesn't know what's been discussed. I would now like to ask that all the documents, i.e. agendas, invitations and the like that have been discussed over the last two years, be sent to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u232	A point of order. I'll put it to the Chamber. Is this a request that can be made on behalf of the Chamber? I'm going to finish the list unless Mr Bashir doesn't want to say anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u233	I support this request. Let us suspend the sitting for ten minutes, so that the Secretary of State will seek and share with us the documents and reports of the general shareholders' meetings of the last two years. Then we can look at the documents and then continue the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u234	Mr Bashir supported the request. Mr. Hoogland?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u235	I normally take it off with one word, support or no support, but in this case it requires a little explanation. Allow me to do so, because I have not said much for the rest of the debate. This request is exactly the same as we made last week permanently about the e-mail. Everything must be thrown over the fence towards the Chamber to look for a needle in a haystack that is not there. I don't think this is wise. Let us hold this debate on a broad basis. Now let's get on with it, because we started it. Everyone wanted to have this debate quickly. The information is there, so let us now continue the debate and also listen to the answers of the Secretary of State, because she has not yet received a single response. I have also asked questions, and I would also like to answer them. I just walked to the interrupting microphone to get an answer to my question. That's what everybody does. This means that we repeat our own term in the term of the Secretary of State, and that is not effective. So let's not do this and let's just keep going for a while. No support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u236	No support for the request. You just want to finish the first term. Mr. Houwers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u237	No support for the request. I agree with what Mr Hoogland said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u238	Support, and I'd like to put it a little smarter. I think it is good that we get the agenda, the documents, the people present and the report from the last ava, which we are talking about all the time. Then we can see it and we can continue in ten minutes. Then we've lost all those questions about the ava.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u239	The SGP does not support this request. It seems as if that deepens the debate, but it clouds the discussion. Let us finish the debate as it has been so far and let us please give the Secretary of State the opportunity to conclude her speech. Then we can attack her with questions and keep a second term and it will be neatly completed. At the moment, no support for the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u240	I support the request, but much more limited. I would very much like to see the part that is specifically about these reports: what was or was not discussed and decided? I don't think the rest is necessary at this stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u241	No support for the request. I call on the opposition to conduct the debate in an orderly manner this evening. I think that's what we're doing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u242	No support for the request. I would now like to hear the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u243	At the heart of the debate is the question of what exactly was discussed in the shareholders' meeting, to what detail was the Secretary of State informed and whether she actively asked questions about it. So I would like to receive the report from that particular shareholders' meeting. The other information may be interesting at some point, but it is relevant to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u244	I have given you all the opportunity to respond to Mr Madlener's request. I note that a large majority of the Chamber is asking for the debate to continue and for all the first-term questions to be answered. In the meantime, we could ask the Secretary of State if it would be possible to obtain more information, in any form, in the course of her first term, to the Chamber relating to the general meeting of shareholders concerned. Normally I would pass that request through a stenogram, but it's shorter to just say it. I expect that there will be an answer to the questions at the end of the first term. This can then be given orally at the end of the period, and I assume that behind the scenes there is a need to look at what can and cannot be done or the information requested by the Chamber rather than in a different way from the Chamber. Then we can always continue on this point in the second term. I also suggest that we do not close this point now but just park for a moment. A lot of questions have been asked about it. I would like to give the Secretary of State an opportunity to proceed with her response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u245	I have a very brief point of order, Mr President. Thank you for this solution. It is important that the information is in writing, because we have just received the oral reply from the Secretary of State. Moreover, I do not believe that a majority is required for an information request from a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u246	I get that addition. Nor did I say that the Secretary of State should give the answer orally. I have said that at the end of her first term she may be able to indicate how she can respond to this request. Maybe there'll be written documents by then. We'll see. I'd like to park it now and let the Secretary of State continue answering your questions. Mr Houwers, would you like to go further on this point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u247	No, not on the point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u248	Well, that's what's going on right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u249	I thought that was already done. Before you give the floor to the Secretary of State, I would like to ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u250	Me? No, not to the Secretary of State. We're in the middle of the point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u251	Finish that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u252	I would like to emphasise that a majority of the House wants to continue the debate. Let's do that, too. In my opinion, we have just decided that by a majority. We're just gonna do that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u253	That was about the summation of my proposal. Mr Houwers, I would like to say, bearing in mind the decision we have just taken and the fact that Mrs De Boer has briefly and forcefully summarized it, that we are giving the Secretary of State the opportunity to make her speech, which is now 3 minutes and 16 seconds on the way, a little further on the way, fed by all the questions that have been asked in the first period. In the course of that, questions can be asked again. I'm gonna... no, Mr Van Helvert, I'm gonna give the floor to the Secretary of State right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u254	A point of order. It's unclear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u255	It's a summary. I said it myself. Several people have also said that it is clear. I'll give you the opportunity...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u256	Will the documents be in writing, in a moment, within the first term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u257	I cannot answer that at this time. I said the Secretary of State will continue with the answer. Either the documents will arrive at the end of the deadline, if possible, or they will respond in writing. This will then be discussed behind the scenes. We're not gonna do that here and now... we're not gonna do that here and now. So that's not what we're gonna do here and now! I am now going to give the floor to the Secretary of State for the continuation of her speech. I give the floor to the Secretary of State. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u258	Thank you, Mr President. I recognise that there are problems and that there are problems that need to be addressed. Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mr Madlener in particular asked for this. Improvements are needed. We share that view. It is also the opinion of the director of ProRail. We're gonna have to put our backs on it. That is why the Long Term Track Agenda has been used on a different direction. The core of this approach is that I and M, my ministry, will focus more intensively on performance improvements and cooperation in the sector. For example, the cooperation between ProRail and the Dutch Railways has greatly improved. The Netherlands has a nice rail system. We should be proud of that. We're investing billions to further improve it. Up to 2028 there is 11 billion invested in it. More than 13 billion is spent on management, maintenance and replacement. That is important, because what is there must also be at the top. In that sense, I would like to congratulate all those who are working hard on this at the moment. Rail projects are complex. We set high standards and during a renovation the shop must remain open. Large projects involve many parties. They often stretch over years. I have just indicated this to Mr Bishop. Often this goes well and results in very nice projects. Due to its complexity, the uncertainties are also large around railway tracks. There's been a lot of coincidence and setbacks. Mr Hoogland referred to this. In the future this will be no different, because major projects will require adjustments and there will be circumstances that will require more. At DSSU, the project at Utrecht, we saw that. A judge's ruling on vibrations and an investigation by the Safety Research Council into the accident at the Singelgracht require adjustments. These costs are higher. That will be no different in the future. Communication about the windfalls is not always smooth and wrinkle-free. There is no doubt in my mind that it needs to be improved. ProRail is an organization with a lot of money. Many projects are being carried out and there is maintenance on the rail network every day for a reason. There are many parties involved in all projects. ProRail needs to identify problems in time, then the facts have to come to the table and if this is necessary, I will carry out an audit or investigation. Then we draw the conclusions to see what action we should take. I want to be transparent in this to the Chamber so that the Chamber can perform its controlling function optimally. I'm not doing this with half or unverified information. I want good information so I can have the right conversation. This sometimes takes some time, and for that I ask for the understanding of the Chamber. I can imagine that information sometimes comes to the Chamber too much in pieces, making it difficult to keep seeing the overall picture. That's what you see in the big projects, for example. I have therefore promised the Chamber to make a proposal on the periodic shaping of information on major projects. This is what we discussed in the previous debate. The VVD Group has been clear on this and wants good, manageable information that is timely and transparent. I'm gonna work on this. Now that things are moving, a lot of things are coming out. This is annoying, but only in this way can further order be established. Both at ProRail and at me the drive is very big to make it better for the traveler. Performance needs to rise steadily and steadily. That's the purpose of the change. ProRail is also working on that desired change. The new top structure and action plan to improve compliance culture are examples of this. I've been asked what I'm doing to take control and improve it. The basis for me is the long-term vision, established last year with the Long-Term Track Agenda. The position of the Ministry has been strengthened and the direction of ProRail has intensified. More is being directed towards performance improvement and cooperation with the sector. ProRail needs to become more of a public implementation organisation. The new management concession is based on this. Regular reports will be sent to the Chamber, in addition to the budget and MIRT cycles, as promised in the previous AO. The information needs to be improved. From the role of shareholder, the conversation with ProRail will be more active, at various levels in the organisation. I believe that maintaining knowledge as a working culture is an important point. Mr Van Helvert raised the question of how to ensure knowledge, for example when it comes to maintenance. The warden has already said something about this. I think it is important that attention should be paid to this. Appointments of new Commissioners and Directors will be steered with greater affinity for ProRail's public tasks and social role. That's what I'll do as a shareholder. Within the new top structure that is expected this autumn, I hope that I will be able to name it, and this includes, among other things, the financial aspects. Consideration is also given to whether ProRail's statutes are sufficiently in line with the public interest. That is something that Mrs Van Tongeren specifically called attention to. I come to the concession provider and the grant provider. With the concession and the grant decision, I steer on the quality of service provided by ProRail, such as the reliability and availability of the rail. In addition, the new ProRail concession requires greater transparency. Things that don't go well have to be reported earlier. I would also like to ask for my agreement on more subjects. I use audits and evaluations more often to see if we can actually improve these matters. That's what I do with ProRail. But even if you look at my role and the role of the ministry, we've invested a number of tasks in the organization differently. Other expertise has been brought into the house in order to do precisely that direction better. Yeah, people outside the organization sometimes notice that. They see it being dealt with in a different way. This is sometimes quite exciting, also between ProRail and the Ministry, but otherwise the proportions are good and content. Of course they can be improved, but we are sending them now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u259	Once the Secretary of State is reading, there's no keeping it. But in fact, they are often not answers to the questions. She closed the part about the shareholder role, but I do have a question about that. It itself states that the shareholder must communicate more actively at all levels. This means that the Secretary of State himself considers that it was not sufficiently active before. That's a bit of self-reflection, something I find very positive in itself. If she thinks that she should communicate more actively and present all these improvement plans in succession, doesn't she think that she should have gone through such a report before she stopped talking to the supervisory board about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u260	I'm going to try to give a slightly longer answer and put it in context. We chose this structure. We have opted for a policy participation on which a board of directors sits. I've said that a few times and I'm going to repeat it. It's important that everyone gets their part, too. As a shareholder, I do want to steer a number of things tighter, but from the roles as they are. The Management Board shall be responsible for the day-to-day management of the organisation. The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the organisation. As an owner, I stand at a distance in that sense, guarding the main lines and ensuring that ProRail carries out its public tasks. When I look back at the question about that report, I have already given that reflection. It has been discussed by all concerned. Improvement plans have been drawn up. I'll follow up on that at the shareholders' meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u261	If the Secretary of State says she wants to communicate more actively, she indicates that it was not active enough before. I agree with her because I do not think it is very active to discuss something orally when it comes to such an important issue. How can I see next week or next month that there is more active communication at all these levels?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u262	You can ask me about that when it comes to the role of shareholders. From that role, I communicate with the organization twice a year. I think it is important that we see that the organisation of ProRail makes improvements and that we see them in the whole acting of ProRail. If you are asking me to share what is going on with job vacancies in the organisation and so on, I do not think that is wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u263	After the whole discussion we had with the Secretary of State about what she calls internal management, which she thinks she should not interfere, I am surprised that she is now coming up with issues such as information and knowledge assurance. That's in line with the Secretary of State, isn't it? Why would she want to interfere in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u264	I am glad that Mrs Van Veldhoven is asking this question. Of course, it is important for me that the knowledge in the organisation is secured, for example in the area of maintenance or concession, and that, if the ILT carries out inspections on it, I also see that ProRail is in control with its knowledge on specific functions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u265	The Secretary of State says from the report that she doesn't want to go through that rule by rule. But there are all kinds of comments that have to do with quality and knowledge assurance within the organisation. Does the Secretary of State consider that to be the case or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u266	I have just said that I would like to see this reflected in, for example, the granting of concessions. However, I also said that I would like to share a number of points discussed in the shareholders' meeting next November, in accordance with an improvement plan as it will be. This is also about culture and how the chairman of the board and the supervisory board look at the organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u267	It is still unclear to me how the Secretary of State sees the division of roles and responsibilities. She just said it's perfectly clear. I have already quoted the following quote from the President-in-Office of the Council, but I will now add the last sentence. He says, "I said no," and he says, "That was my reckoning." I just went through with the Secretary of State that it was her decision and her decision. Who's right now, and who told you what's really going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u268	As I have just replied to Mrs Van Tongeren's question, I asked the President of the Supervisory Board this afternoon to send me the report. He did it right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u269	No, now we're further in the story than I just spoke to the Secretary of State. The President-in-Office said, "It's my decision, it's my decision. The Secretary of State agreed to that at the time. That's just what that letter says. At the shareholders' meeting, the Secretary of State resigned to the fact that it did not come. The Secretary of State explained to us at the beginning of the debate that she did not ask until the newspaper published it. The President Commissioner says it's not the Secretary of State's decision, it's his decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u270	I find this difficult, Mrs Van Tongeren, because we have been discussing this issue for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u271	But I would like to make this point very clear and I still do not have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u272	No, but there has just been a point of order and we have concluded that a large majority of the Chamber has expressly expressed its wish to go further. The Secretary of State is going to see if she can provide more information on this issue, so that we can proceed with it in the second term. In any case, the other questions put by Members of Parliament may also be raised. I see now that you are continuing at the same point. I do not think that is wise, nor is it in line with the agreement just made by a majority of the Chamber. There has been a debate on this one point for over an hour. We can come back to it in the second term. Other questions should also be addressed in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u273	Then I'll make a point of order. I have a question about the distribution of responsibilities. The Secretary of State just said a very long sentence about that. That is a different point from what was exactly discussed in that shareholders' meeting. I still want to know from the Secretary of State if she or the President-in-Office is going to do this. I don't have a clear answer to that. That will not be resolved with the minutes of the shareholders' meeting. Of course, it all has to do with the same report. Who knew when and when what came to the Chamber? I would therefore like to make an attempt to draw the Secretary of State to an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u274	Madam Secretary of State, can you answer that briefly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u275	I shared the decision of the chairman of the Supervisory Board not to provide the report. I asked for the report for my magical reasons, which I mentioned this afternoon in the letter. I got that report, and I transferred it directly to the Chamber. So I finally asked for that report this afternoon to pass it on to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u276	We continue on this subject, because it has been about this for years. How do we direct ProRail and what does the Secretary of State do? I haven't even started an answer yet. If you listen to the debate properly, nothing changes. What's the Secretary of State gonna do? What has actually changed? She has exceptionally forwarded a report. She herself said that this was a one-off and exceptional. What has actually changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u277	I have devoted part of my speech to what has changed. This is about transparency, more active acting on all three roles, and it is also about the director's commitment to ProRail. He has to make sure that ProRail also makes those steps forward. He identifies a number of problems, but he also sees absolutely a number of opportunities. That's what he shared, including in interviews. Those are the steps forward that we are taking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u278	These are texts that are of no use to us: problems and opportunities. That doesn't mean anything, does it? We have a lack of direction here, a lack of direction by the Secretary of State. This has been on the agenda for years. There have been motions passed in this Chamber. I haven't heard the beginning of a solution yet. I only hear lyrics like: it has to be better. When I ask what is being done in concrete terms, I cannot get an answer. Honestly, I've had it a little bit with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u279	Then Mr Madlener seduces me to describe a piece of the past two years. We have laid down a management and a transport concession. These concessions are completely different from past management and transport concessions. Mr Madlener, you know how much work has been done on these management and transport concessions. I think we have been on the road for a year and a half. They also received the approval of the Chamber. In the concessions, you can see that we are committed to the same goals. We ensure that ProRail and the NS work towards the same goals and do so in cooperation. There's transparency in that. There are a number of matters to be dealt with. After five years, we will consider whether we should continue to do so. At the very request of the Chamber, we have dealt with all these matters. For example, look at what happened in the case of freight transport. We removed Keyrail and decided that freight should be embedded in the ProRail organisation. A freight commissioner has come and we have decided that the planning and implementation of freight should be changed. We saw that, while goods were planned, train paths were still in the middle of the peak or empty, because the slots were not filled. We've done much better. In this way, we will fill in what we agreed on in the long term railway agenda and, in fact, earlier on in the light of the report of the Chicken Commission. These are two examples. We must take these steps. The term "wide" means that this also goes in the width of the organisation of ProRail. It is known that there has been a major incident in The Hague, which caused the matter to stop. Then we looked at how to solve that. At that time, we saw that something went wrong in traffic control and in the distribution of capacity, but especially in traffic control. How do you stop it from stopping? We've been running a little bit lately. As soon as it stops somewhere, you'll find that things need to be handled better. That's where they make improvements. These are just three points that have a huge impact on the organisation ProRail, but on which we are taking huge steps forward in our mutual interest. For you have said it a few times: it is about the traveller.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u280	I'm trying to make the discussion a little bit more groove. For that, I need to go back a little bit. The Secretary of State indicated that she was the one who decided on the provision of information. To my disappointment, she said that this was mainly due to the fact that there had been leaks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u281	We shall return to information, Mr Houwers, in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u282	This is what I need to ask my question. Mr President, I would like to ask you to allow me to speak because I do not think I have spoken. The Secretary of State indicated that it leaked and published about it was decisive for her. I had hoped that the fact that we met this morning in the permanent committee on infrastructure and the environment and asked for it again was perhaps a reason for the Secretary of State. Now I'm making the leap to the future. Mrs Van Veldhoven indicated that she thought the Secretary of State's reasoning was lubricious, because the Secretary of State says, looking at the past, if I had to do the same, I would do the same again. However, I do not want to know what the Secretary of State would have done in the past, but I would like to know what she is doing in November. She now knows that the Chamber is very interested in all these improvement plans and the things that are there. Is she now more inclined to include us in the results of the improvement plan and so perhaps I do not need to know more about all the vacancies about what is being achieved? What's your answer to that, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u283	If I say yes now, Mr President, I do not know whether that'supposed' can be said to be'supposed'. Yeah, I'm willing to take the Chamber more into that. I think it is important for the Chamber to be more involved in all three roles, but from the purity of the role. I think it is important that the information on the improvement plans should be brought to the Chamber. These plans concern not only financial management. They are broader and are also about culture, for example. How is business, for example? How's the board looking at it? Moreover, I am not supposed to sit in the seat of the supervisory board or the board of directors. I will do everything I can to prevent you from accidentally sitting in that chair, because I don't think this is your intention. I'd like to take the Chamber in all three roles better. In the concession we secured this in all kinds of management plans. I have already promised to improve the information on the granting of grants for large projects. Nor do I have any difficulty in including the Chamber in the shareholders' role and informing the Chamber of progress in the main plans. This is about the purity of the role, even when it comes to the conformity of the annual accounts, the audit report and the financial documents. The Court knows, like no other, the purity of the shareholder's role. Given the need for information and the importance for me that steps are being taken and that we keep our course, I would like to include the Chamber in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u284	Clear. That means we keep the roles that way. As far as I'm concerned, you can validate the reports or comment on them. In any case, we are receiving more information than we have received so far. I would like that to be established.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u285	I can imagine that after the shareholders' meeting we will show what progress has been made. I'll do it from my information point of view. I do not think it is right to distribute reports, agendas and internal documents at that time. I hope the Chamber will understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u286	Last week, the Secretary of State was defending a railway bill in the First Chamber and she praised ProRail. She said ProRail works so efficiently. In the summer, the Secretary of State discussed the report on everything that had gone wrong at ProRail orally in the shareholders' meeting. How does this relate to the praise trumpet in the First Chamber last week? We know that the report, which dates from 2015, doubts whether overview, knowledge, acceptance and sense of urgency at all necessary levels within the ProRail organisation are sufficiently present. How do we reconcile that with the praise trumpet about the good work of ProRail?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u287	That praise trumpet can be placed in a framework. Your colleague in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has done this. He indicated that we are always talking about the problems on the track, but that we also have a well-functioning track and that this deserves more attention. I think he literally said that this deserves more attention than the 5% of the problems we are talking about. In that context, I said that what is happening now deserves a compliment, especially in the case of ProRail. Every day, this track is so big that more than one million passengers can cross it. 413 stations are operated. 7,000 kilometers of track is maintained. That's the first thing we've talked about. The second thing I praised was the European railway environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u288	That's double. I think we all want to congratulate the hard workers at ProRail or at NS. There's a lot of work going on. There is also a lot going on, but we are talking about a company whose sole shareholder is the Secretary of State. She discussed a report stating that the organisation was not financially in control. As of 2012, this organisation has been screaming to the Secretary of State for subsidies that ProRail is in trouble and that he will remain in trouble until 2028. However, the Secretary of State is constantly telling positive news in the First and Second Chambers. This way of communicating with the Chamber is awkward. I ask the Secretary of State to reflect and look back at all the positive news she has had in the Chamber. If ProRail literally says it's not going well, that he needs help and money, isn't it wise to tambourize more strongly in the Chamber in the future that there is also a downside?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u289	I have mentioned the downside several times in this debate. I also said that there is a lot to improve at ProRail. However, we cannot forget what has happened and forget the good things that have happened. ProRail needs to improve financial management. We also need to deal with project management differently. I'm gonna take the concession. I'm gonna run it differently. I therefore share Mr Van Helvert's comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u290	The report that reached us today through a large newspaper also mentions the years 2012 and 2013. The report states that E&Y, ProRail's accountant, made certain comments about 2012 and 2013. Now the Secretary of State has only seen the report today. My question to the Secretary of State is what she did with the comments of E&Y from 2012 and 2013. It is claimed that even when E&Y said that the landscape was not in order at ProRail. In other words, there were big problems back then. Would the Secretary of State care to comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u291	Ernst & Young looked at it from 2012 and 2013 onwards and also indicated the improvement points in the approving audit reports. This is something the organisations should follow up on. The difference between 2012 and 2013 is that in 2015, so this year, the Supervisory Board asked for a report from the CFO-ad interim. You have that report and it is also involved in the audit report, which delayed the shareholders' meeting for a month.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u292	That's not what I read in the report. I read that E&Y also had sharp points of criticism in 2012 and 2013. It is said that the landscape was not in order and that things had to be improved. There was talk of a long-term problem. The Secretary of State is acting like she knows what that's about. I therefore assume that she has also read those pieces of E&Y. Then my question is why this problem still exists today. The report states that the problems from 2012 and 2013 have not actually been resolved. We are talking about a long-term problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u293	That is exactly what I am doing, namely the step forward. This means that if there are improvement plans and concerns, they need to be closely followed up. It also means implementing the improvement plans and ensuring that financial management at ProRail is extremely well organised. The management, maintenance and replacement series involve a great deal of money, over 13 billion. It therefore means that this will be validated externally and that it will be checked where the improvement points are located and how to prevent budget tension. Those steps need to be taken. I would like to follow that up more closely. I want to ensure that, among other things, from ownership and an additional shareholders' meeting, that follow-up takes place properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u294	It remains amazing that the Secretary of State bases her defence of the past on "I didn't need to know anything about that because that was internal business" and that she continues to base herself on "I'm going to tighten it up" in terms of the future. I have not yet been able to reconcile these two, but perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to answer them later. My question to the Secretary of State is: is it in favour of the legality of the use of the subsidy granted to ProRail in recent years?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u295	In principle, I can only say yes to that. However, I do not know what the specific points for improvement are.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u296	The Secretary of State says yes to this. However, according to the report, there has been little or no verification of the legality of costs in recent years. How can the Secretary of State say yes to this? Can she back that up?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u297	That is precisely what the audit report is about. The auditor considers that the audit information he obtains is sufficient and appropriate to provide evidence of the opinion. For me, an audit report means that the financial administration has been looked at and that it has been assessed whether it has been carried out correctly and what the points of improvement are. Those statements were made by ProRail's home accountant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u298	Let me make a factual remark. An audit report says if all the receipts are there. That does not mean anything about whether the money has been properly spent. The Secretary of State has said that it is responsible for the legality of expenditure. I would like to know from her what, in addition to those audit reports, she bases her judgment on. The audit reports do not provide any basis for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u299	I do not know at the moment what the points of improvement for the declaration of legality are, as I have just said. I can inform the Chamber in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u300	I too find it curious that the Secretary of State can answer yes by heart to the question about the rightful use, yet there are incredibly many questions about internal control and yet there is a whole range of examples in the report. For example, there is an example of the 50 million spent, which later, when examined, turns out to be an advance. That's one example. I will not tire the Secretary of State with a whole range of examples, but how can the Secretary of State say that the money has been properly spent?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u301	I don't have any information right now that this wouldn't be the case. When employees in the organisation stand up and say that things have not gone well in the past, first of all I think it is good that these people get up and secondly that they should be followed up immediately. However, that information is currently not known to the board of directors, nor to the supervisory board, nor to me. Of course, people can always stand up and say things have gone wrong. Where people work, mistakes are made. People who don't make mistakes, I think they live in the Efteling. The legality of the use of the grant is checked by both the accountant of ProRail and the accounting department of the Reich.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u302	Now my clog breaks. First, the Secretary of State says that the money has been properly spent. Then she says she has no information that it is not. We have been working all evening on this one report, which is just a lot of information, should raise a lot of questions and should set off a lot of alarm bells, about the legitimate use of those funds. How can the Secretary of State, having read this report by now, still say that she has not obtained any information that the money may not have been properly spent?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u303	I repeat my answer. Should things that have not gone well in the past and which are not known at the moment become known, for example because an employee says that things have gone wrong at the time, I am pleased that someone is standing up. However, I think it is important to examine and validate whether that is true. Should it prove that in the past things that had been legitimate have not gone well, apart from the assessment of the legality of the use of the grant by both the accountant of ProRail and the accounting department of the Empire, then we will have to act on matters at that time. At present, with these two parties, the legality of the use of the subsidy has been checked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u304	In reply to Mrs van Veldhoven's question, you have just said that you must return to this in writing. Can we expect these answers during this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u305	I just gave the answer about both ProRail's accounting department and the government's accounting department. I don't have any information right now that it would be any different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u306	So there will be no more written answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u307	The list of improvement points is not known to the Secretary of State. I imagine she can't get it all up like that. It is nice that she will send that list; I understood that it will be sent. My question is whether we can do that in two weeks' time, so that we can see to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u308	I said that I would first wait for the shareholders' meeting to be able to inform the Court in broad terms about the progress made on the shareholder role. The shareholders' meeting is scheduled for November. Then I'll inform the Chamber in two or three weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u309	The list of improvement points is just there. It exists, but the Secretary of State is not known. I just heard the Secretary of State say she's sending it over. However, I hear her say that she must first consult in the shareholders' meeting, while she is the sole shareholder. I wonder why that piece can't come in two weeks with the time frame attached. It seems sensible to me that we should also get the reports of Ernst & Young from 2012 and 2013, so that we can get a good understanding of what exactly went wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u310	I just said that I think it is important to consult with the board of directors and the supervisory board at an additional shareholders' meeting in November. I will then talk, among other things, about the points of financial improvement, some of which are mentioned in the letter in the President-in-Office. I also think it is important that I share the view there on the progress of the organisation in a broader sense. What I will discuss there, I will share with the Chamber in general after the shareholders' meeting. That's the commitment I just made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u311	I'll come back, because a promised written answer won't come. Since 2012, the external auditor has warned that the landscape of large projects is not in order. The external auditor also warns about the worrying quality of the grant accountability. I am not asking the Secretary of State with her hat as a shareholder, but with her hat as a grantor, whether she does not think that if she grants such a large subsidy to the organisation every year, she should also be able to guarantee the legality of its use.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u312	Each annual report shall include the audit report of the independent auditor. You will also find the text of the independent auditor, which, among other things, addresses some of these points. It seems to me that that is the way to inform you. You have the information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u313	The information we have relates to the quality of the figures. That's another sentence for "all the receipts were in the tray." It is implicit in the report that "it should be emphasized that, until now, there has been hardly any review of the legality of costs or quality." That is why I ask the Secretary of State how she can justify it. After all, she said quite clearly yes to the question of whether she can justify it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u314	I also said that the rightful use of the grant is also controlled by the National Audit Office. So there are two parties that do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u315	What is happening now is at the heart of the problem of this debate. Either the Secretary of State doesn't listen to the questions, or she won't listen. It has just been clearly quoted here what the report says: legality has hardly been checked in recent years. The Secretary of State claims that this has happened and can put her hand in the fire for it, as the accountant has looked into it. However, there is something else in the report. Can the Secretary of State explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u316	Not only the accountant has looked at the legitimate use of the grant, but also the accounting service of the Empire.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u317	So that's not in the report. Mrs Van Veldhoven has just read out what is in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u318	The report has been discussed. Several points have emerged and have been explicitly looked at by the accountant. The accountant still issued that statement. I have said that we will follow up on the issues that have been discussed in connection with the report at the forthcoming shareholders' meeting. Of course, six months later, because then the annual accounts will be on the agenda. I have also said that I will inform you on the main points. I will be happy to take this very important question with you specifically.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u319	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u320	Then I come to management, maintenance and replacement. Mr Bashir said that there was a deficit of 1.1 billion, Mr Slob asked whether there were deficits and how I judged them and asked Mr Houwers whether this situation would be all right. With ProRail's grant application it has been reported that there will be tension on the budget. That was in 2013. At the moment when it is not clear what the tensions on the budgets are, I cannot share them with the Chamber. I have already said the following to Mr Van Helvert when it comes to DSSU. Suppose I tell you there's a deficit of 107 million. We validate that and a few months later it turns out to be 29.5 million. If I inform the Chamber that it is not 107 million but 29.5 million for the reasons why, then I can give you a note that Mr Van Helvert asks me if I have my information in order. I think it's important that validated information goes to the Chamber. This means that there are sometimes signals that are not yet certain facts, accompanied by many disclaimers. I think it is important that I inform the Chamber correctly and in good time. Let's look at management, maintenance and replacement. It has been reported that there is tension on longer-term budgets. This was then discussed with ProRail and it turned out that there was a misunderstanding in shared and not shared conclusions. Finally, the conclusion was that it was indeed necessary to look at how to proceed with this and I decided to have an audit carried out on the series until 2028. Again, there are a lot of billions going in and I think it's important to know if we have the management, maintenance and replacement of ProRail in order. Even if there is no money to invest, it is important that what lies there is in optimal form. I also mentioned in the 2015 budget that we were going to do that, that there was tension on the budgets and that I would look at the tension. That report is here by now, and I've reported it. It is in the 2016 budget. We do not provide any information on the budget in advance. The underlying documents were also sent to the Chamber on the day of the budget. The remark that came to the press at some point, by any means, that there is a deficit of 475 million for ProRail, is not a correct representation. It has been considered that a deficit could occur between 2018 and 2028 if we do not now look at how we deal with it. Moreover, the factors that can create this are also external. This is due inter alia to indexation and the expected transport forecast, which is not so high as to reduce the usage fee. At that point, we are looking at how we can prevent this. Eleven measures have been identified by PwC and a comment has been made by the Supervisory Board on indexation. There is talk with ProRail about how we will deal with indexation in the future. I'll probably report to the Chamber before Christmas about the part that's going to play. I also asked ProRail if he could assess all 11 measures and see how they could be manageable. I expect the results after Christmas, in January or February. I shared that with the Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u321	Validated information is very important, I absolutely agree with the Secretary of State. Of course, this also applies to the financial management of ProRail. The question then is who validates what. Perhaps it is to be able to close a case and be able to look ahead when we get a validated view of the past few years, an evaluation of ProRail. We have the ADR for this in the Netherlands, the Audit Service Rijk. My question to the Secretary of State is whether she is prepared to be evaluated by the Audit Service in recent years. Broad, including the legality of the subsidies granted to ProRail by the State Secretary. I ask her to do so and to send the results to the Chamber within three months. Would she be willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u322	Each year, the ADR looks at the legality of the use of subsidies. I have no idea whether that is being communicated or how it is. I'll check it out and I'll get back to you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u323	That's nice. It's nice to have the Secretary of State come back to that. It is true that I am also concerned with subsidies. Perhaps, however, we can have a full review of ProRail, so that we can also say: things have gone wrong here. We're gonna look forward now. Then it is good that we get a validation from our own audit service. There may be some painful numbers coming up. It's possible. However, the ProRail has also said that something has gone wrong in recent years. We are on the right track, so I'm sure ProRail himself is not ashamed of that and that we can even help ProRail with that. Thus, the shareholder is not entirely dependent on the supervisory board, but also has an opinion of its own audit service. If the Secretary of State wanted to look into that, I'd think that was a very good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u324	I will look into exactly what is being done by the ADR and to what extent that meets Mr Van Helvert's question. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u325	In reply to Mr Van Veldhoven's question whether the money was properly spent, the Secretary of State said yes. To the question of how she knew that, we received the answer: there is an audit report. Mr Slob took a look at the audit report. It only says something about the size of the power and whether there is a true picture of the 2014 result. It is the 2014 audit report. There is nothing in that about whether or not the money has been properly spent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u326	I don't have the audit report ready. I'll check what's in the accountant's report and then I'll come back to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u327	We have already looked at the accountants' statement. It's a good thing the Secretary of State is doing the same. However, I do not want to know what is in the audit report. I'd like to hear, with justification, how the Secretary of State knows it's been properly spent. I am still surprised that the Secretary of State says that she has no information that it may not be legitimate. She says this, while there is also the report we received today from the Secretary of State. It sets out one example after another of points in which there is doubt as to whether the money has been properly spent. In any event, the audit report does not provide any guidance. On this basis, it cannot be said that the money has been properly spent. Does the Secretary of State agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u328	I told you before, we're not looking at the audit report, we're looking at the audit report. Then I'll come back to the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u329	The Secretary of State just mentioned the 1.1 billion. If I have understood correctly, the Secretary of State was already informed on 25 June 2014 about the shortage of grants of 1.1 billion. She only informed the Chamber about this a few weeks ago. I understand the Secretary of State wants to validate everything, check everything and double-check it. However, she is responsible for ProRail and has very great ambitions towards the Chamber. If she gets the news that she's running out of EUR 1.1 billion on the railroad, shouldn't she at least have something to report to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u330	That's what I did. I did so in the 2015 budget. In that I indicated that there is tension on the multiannual budgets. The amount of 1.1 billion was not validated at the time. I said at the time: I will instruct PricewaterhouseCoopers and a number of other parties to review the management, maintenance and replacement budgets and also to check whether there is any tension, which causes this tension and what possible solutions are. That report is here now. In the 2016 budget, that validated information came to the Chamber. I had already reported this to the Chamber in 2015, but also several times in the meantime if requested during AO's. That information shows that there is a potential voltage of 475 million in the period 2018-2028. We are currently considering whether it is possible to prevent such a deficit from arising with management measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u331	If there is a deficit of EUR 1.1 billion, it is not enough simply to tell the Chamber that there is tension in the budgets. If you're talking about a strain in the budgets, isn't it about EUR 1.1 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u332	There is no deficit of 1.1 billion. That is the first point Mr Bashir has made here and I am fighting. After passing over, it appears that there is a potential voltage of 475 million. I do not think it would be good if I shared amounts with the Chamber that have not been validated and that are not yet clear whether such deficits are going to occur. Sharing such amounts with the Chamber can give a distorted picture. However, I think it is important that I let the Chamber know that there are possible tensions, that I let that pass and that I share with the Chamber the facts that ultimately arise from them. I did. So there is no deficit of 1.1 billion. As it now looks, there is no shortage of 1.1 billion. There may be a voltage of 475 million. That's what I reported to the Room. I have also explained this and mentioned the causes of this tension. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked what exactly caused these tensions. I will come back to that in a moment. However, this was my answer to Mr Bashir's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u333	The Secretary of State rightly says: I want to know what that is based on. Now she says: based on what I know now, is the amount of 475 million just the maximum that we have to take into account now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u334	In any case, that is the validated amount that has been explicitly examined. It is possible that such a deficit will occur. Of course, I can't see into the future. I do not know to what extent there will be pluses or minuses in the future. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked what caused these tensions. I hope I can answer that question right away, Mr President. That's not exactly possible. There are huge sets of them, which contain pluses and mins every year. However, it is clear that those multi-annual series started to rise in 2014. The transport forecast has an impact on this, but also on the indexing. The Chamber knows that the IBOI is indexed. However, the soil, road and hydraulic indexing is a very different one. I'm gonna take a look at that. That signal from ProRail is clear. I hope to be clear about this before Christmas. I put the other points to ProRail with the question of what the possible solutions are. Given the amount of money left, the solutions may also lead to difficult discussions. I have already mentioned the following example: maintenance on the railways during the day is cheaper, but the choice is an additional burden for the traveller, because then trains will fail. That's the kind of dilemma you could run into. I'd like to share it with the Chamber. I would like to discuss this with her once ProRail has looked at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u335	I have listened carefully to the variables that the Secretary of State says they can ultimately determine how big that deficit is going to be. A point I didn't hear her mention. This concerns the qualification by PricewaterhouseCoopers that the design of the systems does not have sufficient safeguards to ensure the reliability of the series to the future. The Secretary of State just said about the 475 million: that's it. But the same report states that the justification of those series is insufficient to guarantee those guarantees to the future. Then how can the Secretary of State say it's going to be 475 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u336	I didn't just say that. I have said that this is the indication that is now available and that a number of actions are being taken on it. However, I have also said that I cannot look into the future. I think it is important that there be a reaction from ProRail to the frameworks that PricewaterhouseCoopers indicates in the report. I myself will talk to ProRail about the indexation. That's not what those 11 actions say. I will return to that in January, February, in the Chamber. I think it is important that we discuss all these issues at the moment when ProRail has been able to indicate how we look at the PricewaterhouseCoopers report and the estimate of the 475 million and the solutions to prevent this from happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u337	It is good that the scale of the problem is in the picture. The question is how hard that figure of 475 million is. A $400 million reservation was made to finally be safe to cover the case. This can be at the expense of local projects. Questions have been asked about this before today. Can the Secretary of State answer that? Why reserve 400 million if the deficit is likely to be around 475 million? I can't rhyme with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u338	I think it is important that there should be a reservation on the management, maintenance and replacement series in the future. That has been looked at and the target amount of 400 million has been achieved as a very reasonable amount of reservation. That's the reservation I'm making right now. In this context, I can go straight to the regional lines. Existing programmes, including PHS, are maintained and commitments to contribute to regional rail projects are also maintained. In the coming years, this has simply been and will be the implementation of a large number of projects on the regional lines. I say this in response to Mr Hoogland's question, Mrs Van Tongeren, Mr Slob, Mr Houwers and Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u339	The hallmark of the evening is that you do your input in the first term, but all your questions actually get answered through interruptions. That's why I'm here now. My follow-up question is, why 400 million? It could be 200 million. That amount isn't exactly hard. What are the figures and assumptions below?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u340	The total budget is over 13 billion. PricewaterhouseCoopers' estimate of all cross-compliance is 475 million. In this respect, the financial experts consider 400 million to be a realistic reservation. I will then realize it. Of course, I will go into that in consultation with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u341	There have also been serious problems with the concrete construction of the Betuwe line. Has the Secretary of State had an in-depth investigation on this yet? Or is she gonna wait for the accountant on this, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u342	An in-depth investigation has been carried out. It is also expected that the Court will come to the Chamber at the beginning of October. I think that's next week or the next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u343	Then we'll wait and see. In an earlier debate, the Secretary of State reported that several reports had not yet been sent to the Chamber in which the Secretary of State had had access. At least I've just heard such a sentence reference. I didn't just ask, but it's in my head all the time. Are there indeed any other cases or reports that have disappeared in drawers or are still flopping out of drawers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u344	I don't keep reports in drawers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u345	If those reports are not kept in drawers, it would be good if they were sent to the Chamber. I'd still like to ask a few questions about the 475 million. The Secretary of State says she needed a year to validate that 1.1 billion and then get to that 475 million. If I take the documents that the Secretary of State sent to the Chamber for a change, after by the way a journalist had called the Ministry to ask what was going on with the 475 million ECU, we see that there is no validation. The design of the system does not have sufficient safeguards to ensure the reliability of the series in the future. In other words, the 1.1 billion is an estimate. How did the Secretary of State out of 1.1 billion out of 475 million? I can't find that in the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u346	That the reports have been sent to the Chamber thanks to a journalist is, I think, a very incorrect representation. I indicated that those reports would be sent with the 2016 budget. That's what happened. It is referred to in the budget and, during the day of the budget, the letter and the documents were sent to the Chamber. The 1.1 billion was an estimate of ProRail. The 2013 grant application indicated that it was expected that tensions would arise on the multiannual budget until 2028 and that they suspected that the amount would reach 1.1 billion. At that time, I said that it was important to carry out an audit on the whole methodology and that we get an amount that is also substantiated. It is no different that there are a number of preconditions for the researchers to do so. PricewaterhouseCoopers and the other two parties have explicitly looked at a number of elements. It has been looked at how these management, maintenance and replacement series are put together and after that it has been substantiated an amount of 475 million. That is then the amount that could possibly be a tension. I have just explained that external factors in particular have an impact, such as the use fee and the indexation. The Chamber knows we're looking at the usage fee and I'm going to talk to ProRail about the indexation. I've asked ProRail what measures they can take. This means that, on the basis of the report, I will base myself on the amount of 475 million that parties have put down in this way. By the way, Mr Bashir's phrase was the sentence that Mrs Van Veldhoven just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u347	That is the essence of our question. In the sense quoted by both me and Mrs Van Veldhoven, there is a lack of confidence in the calculations. This implies that no validation can take place either. At least that's how I read it. If I look at the report further, I cannot conclude that the Secretary of State can bring that 1.1 billion back to 475 million. So it took the Secretary of State a year to do so. However, I do not see any justification for this. How and where am I supposed to find the 475 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u348	Among other things, the summary of the report indicates that a total of 1.1 billion has indeed been started. PricewaterhouseCoopers has indicated the way in which they have calculated cases, how they have done them, and that, on the basis of this report, they amount to 475 billion. That's what I'm gonna do from now on. If any adjustments come up, I'll share them with the Chamber. As far as I am concerned, it is important that we now do everything we can to prevent this tension on the budgets between 2018 and 2028.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u349	You just said 475 billion. I assume that means 475 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u350	Yes. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u351	Then all of a sudden it's not so bad again, if you compare it with that!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u352	I have another question about the comments made by the Secretary of State on the region and the concerns there, namely that the deficits and tighter financial policies that have arisen will have an impact on what remains to be done in the region. In fact, she says, and that sounds reassuring: what has already been decided and what has already been agreed on, I just keep.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u353	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u354	But is it true that for the period up to 2028 there is actually only EUR 167 million for any new investment in the region?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u355	Mr Slob refers to the recalibratement. The pieces about that are in front of me in front of the answers, but I think I'm gonna come a long way. He's referring to the recalibrate. This concerns the pieces that have now been shared with the various railway tables and about which I will have a discussion with all those involved on the national railway table next Friday. Indeed, I have been saying this for two years now, for two years, there is a very small amount of free space left. In the budget for, I believe, 2015 it was an amount of 990 million. I shared with the Chamber all the expenses that were incurred after that and which I took on board. I have also promised the Chamber that from the amount from the 2015 budget to the last million I will show what has been invested. I am afraid that we will then actually reach a figure of between 100 million and 200 million in still free investment until 2028. The reason why I started this is that at the beginning of 2013 we had a austerity blow and that I said at the time that I think it is important that all regions, NS and ProRail, so everyone shows which projects are there, so that we can make a proper assessment of the amount remaining. More importantly: should money come again, at least we have done our homework.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u356	That is quite a shocking remark: about 200 million to 2028, so over a period of thirteen years, there is still room for additional investment, depending on what the financial picture is now. The Secretary of State also mentioned expectations management, but she asked the region itself to come up with ideas to make that review happen? If at the end of the day the conclusion is that for new plans only such a limited amount is available, then I can imagine that the region is very disappointed. Does the Secretary of State not see a real commitment for himself to do everything in his power to raise that amount?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u357	I say two things about this. In that respect I have done very well with expectations management, because from day one I said that it would be in that order of magnitude, that it would really be a very small amount. Yeah, especially with the love I've developed for my portfolio "track," that's disappointing. We must not forget that more than 11 billion is invested until 2028, but that money has been invested. It's part of the past. Projects have gone like this. The decision to tax the Infrastructure Fund for 250 million per year was also taken in 2013. The result is that the free space has been expanded. I'd like to see it different, too, but we didn't make that choice. I do think it is important that we discuss this in the re-examination process, and I am now talking about it on the regional railway tables and, next Friday, also on the national railway table, which I personally chair, are aware that this 11 billion is being spent and that everything that is administratively settled, including a signature, will not be taken away from my signature. I'll keep my administrative appointments. That means that some of the free space has been souped up, because I felt that I should keep my given word. Something's gonna go off of space pretty soon. Space has started at 1.4 billion in early 2013 and is now even further undressed through 990 million. However, all this has been done with commitments that I have made through the Chamber, for choices that we have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u358	I just heard the Secretary of State reply to a question from Mr Madlener that, apart from the report on concrete rot that is still coming, there are no more reports in the drawer. I want to verify this, because this was actually the reason why we asked about the documents. We want to see it stop and we don't get anything new every week. Let me repeat the question. Is the Secretary of State sure that in her ministry there is no report in any drawer, not that of the grantor, not that of the supervisor and not that of the shareholder, which will soon come out about the past and which should have already been in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u359	A number of reports will certainly be sent to the Chamber, for example the progress report of the hsl which deals with the concrete rot and the subsidence, but also ERTMS progress reports. Validated investigations that are still out there are coming to the Chamber. I have always said that care is about timeliness for me. I want the data that goes to the Chamber to be correct. I often hear the Chamber say that the information should have been there sooner. I think it is important that when I inform the Chamber, at least I do not have to go back to the content. I would find that even more annoying and try to avoid it to the extreme.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u360	I may have heard it wrong, but when Mr Madlener just asked if there were any reports in the drawer, the Secretary of State said no. Now I ask her whether she is sure that nowhere in the department, nor in the part of the grantor, nor in that of the supervisor, nor in the part of the shareholder, in a drawer or in a window window is a report on the past that should actually be shared with the Chamber, so that we do not see tomorrow in some medium, a newspaper or something else, a report that the Secretary of State should have shared with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u361	All the reports I have to share with the Chamber are coming to the Chamber. These may be reports which I myself order or receive and which I send to the Chamber with a policy response. I inform the Chamber about the reports on which the Chamber should be informed, because it is information relevant to the Chamber to be able to carry out its audit task.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u362	This is not really the answer to my question. I appreciate the answer, but I understand that the Secretary of State cannot guarantee that a newspaper will put another report on the Internet tonight that should have been shared with us. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that such a report will not be on an Internet site again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u363	You are now doing a nuance that is relevant. Reports which I believe should not be shared with the Chamber and which then appear on the Internet are thus shared with the Chamber via the public network. It's not like every report that appears in the media is a report that would go to the Chamber through me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u364	We first had an amount of 1.1 billion. This has been adjusted downwards to a budget strain of approximately 475 million plus a reservation of 400 million. That means we're almost at 1.1 billion again. Or are these two totally different things? How do these amounts relate to the free investment area rail? Is this all gone? What is the sum of all the promises made to the regions? Is it also in the budget of 475 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u365	The 475 million is a possible tension that is about to arise. To cover that tension, to cover tensions at all on management, maintenance and replacement series, I make a reservation of 400 million. For the re-examination I have shared a number of pieces with the region, I will have a meeting with the national railway table next Friday and all the relevant documents will be shared with the Chamber, for the AO MIRT, in order to be able to discuss the re-examination there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u366	Should I read it in such a way that out of the 475 million in budget strings, only 400 million is earmarked, despite the fact that there are still additional risks? Or was that $400 million put on top of that $475 million? How else is the Secretary of State going to cover the risks already identified? Why, then, is it said to the regions that the investment area of 906 million is largely necessary for the risks? I really can't rhyme with those numbers. I'd really like to be clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u367	The 475 million is a possible deficit that can occur. Let's see if that can be controlled. ProRail is watching that. I have reserved 400 million for management and maintenance and replacement series from free space. Now that I know the amount of 475 million, 400 million financially seems to be an adequate reservation. We've been looking at that internally with financial experts. So the 475 million is not yet a fact. In fact, I will talk to you in January, February to see what measures are needed or what measures may have an effect. The 400 million reservation that has been made falls into the free investment area and I will discuss it with you at the AO MIRT. Then you can also see which projects are on the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u368	I have another question about a possible shortage. The letter from the President-in-Office that we have had contains a passage that also calls for a response from the Secretary of State. On page 5, he writes: "(...) the question that ProRail has to face is whether, despite the productivity improvement, there is no structural 'deficit' that affects the size of the contract portfolio allocated to him." How does the Secretary of State explain this passage?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u369	Could you just mention the page of the quote you're quoting?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u370	That's on page 5, under "Finally (or epilogue)." That passage states: "(...) the question that ProRail has to face is whether, despite the productivity improvement, there is no structural 'deficit' that affects the size of the contract portfolio allocated to it." This is also a kind of warning: pay attention, because those budgets are now developing so that we can no longer meet the mission we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u371	That is a relevant remark. That's why I want to talk to ProRail about indexing. There is a gap between the indexation applied by the Empire on ProRail and the ground, road and water construction indexing. That could be structural. In order to assess whether this is the case, I also need that kind of data and will examine those measures. I shall come back to this element. This has to do with the structural indexation story, where ProRail wonders whether it can still fulfil its mission if it continues to do so. To the answer to that question I will come back in January, February when the entire report is reviewed by ProRail and when I have talked to ProRail about the indexation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u372	We will come back to this: that of course applies to more things that have passed through here tonight. I find this kind of wording striking in this letter. Of course, I understand that people always want to have more space to carry out the tasks, but you can expect a President-in-Office to have something really going on when he writes this down. Then there is indeed a need to respond. Please do not let that last longer than is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u373	The question of indexation is particularly important to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u374	Not only in the letter from the President-in-Office of the Council, but also in the documents that reached us today through a newspaper. It also mentions the amount of 1.1 billion. The Secretary of State hadn't read the documents until today, so she couldn't have known. It really says there's a deficit of 1.1 billion. I and M have already imposed a target, i.e. a cut of EUR 48 million. If all these 1.1 billion or 475 million were uncertain, and therefore did not need to be reported to the Chamber, why was that task already imposed on ProRail?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u375	I have just said what has been said about the amount of 1.1 billion. That's a non-validated amount. That is why I have had the matter looked through. I don't remember the second part of the question. Will Mr Bashir repeat that for me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u376	So that is not my second interruption, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u377	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u378	The documents that the Secretary of State has not read say that there is a deficit of 1.1 billion euros and that the Ministry of State, I and M, has therefore imposed a mandate on ProRail of 48 million euros for 2014 or 2015. I don't know exactly what year it is. However, prior to validation, policies have already been pursued, without informing the Court of Justice about them. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u379	I do not know exactly what purpose Mr Bashir is referring to. ProRail has a number of strong targets, including those of 50 million on the usage fee from the Rutte I cabinet. I will check in a few moments what this is about and then I will come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u380	This is just on page 1 of the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u381	The Secretary of State said she'll be back shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u382	It strikes me in this debate that we have a lot of questions and very specific questions, but that so far there have been no or hardly any specific answers. I have one of those specific questions. There is also always a management letter in an audit report. Did the Secretary of State read that management letter? Does that perhaps include some of the answers to the questions we have put to the Secretary of State this evening?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u383	I didn't read the management letter. But I'll have that check done in a minute and come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u384	I had hoped that the Secretary of State would be ready for such an important debate as this, the basic documents, such as the audit report and the management letter. The Secretary of State knew that tonight was also going to be about the financial aspects. Why didn't the Secretary of State take the management letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u385	When I receive this kind of information, I generally get a withdrawal note with the exciting points. I don't always take all the reports I get to me. That is why I will check in a moment to see if there is any actual content in the management letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u386	The Secretary of State will return to this matter. I think it would be a good idea for the Secretary of State to go a little further in answering the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u387	I have a completely different proposal. We have been debating this for hours. It's kind of a well-niet about management letters and stuff. In this way, I am not getting any clarity about what the risks really are, what the legality and efficiency of the expenditure really is, how big the deficit really is and how big the sum of the budget tension really is. I would therefore like to propose that we suspend this debate and ask the General Court to examine these key points, which we discussed in the debate today. So we can have an independent judgment and the butcher does not have to approve his own meat. In this way, we will have an independent assessment of this whole financial issue, on all those aspects that I have just mentioned. If that is the case, we also have a common basis on which we can continue the debate. That's my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u388	This is an order proposal. I propose that the Chamber suspend the debate now and come back to it at a later date when there is a validation of the General Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u389	I think this is a very good proposal. The pieces we asked for, of course, we want to get, including the management letter. We'd like to see them, too. But we think this is a very good proposal from D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u390	Without wishing to disqualify the contributions of my colleagues or myself, I must say that I think this is one of the better proposals this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u391	We do not think this is such a good proposal. We have had an intensive debate with the Secretary of State and she has clearly indicated that we do not want to go in the direction we want. We would like to end this debate with a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u392	So you want to finish the debate tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u393	It seems to me to be a good request. We are making a lot of concrete proposals that we are not responding to. If we followed the D66 proposal, we would get it. That is what we support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u394	I would like to support the D66 proposal with regard to the research which will then take place, but I believe that we could conclude this debate. I would like to respond to all the answers given by the Secretary of State. As far as I am concerned, that could be short. I think this could go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u395	For the sake of clarity, you propose that the debate be concluded and that this question be put at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u396	It's okay if there's a validation of everything the Secretary of State said here, because I'm getting dizzy from all the information. It's unverifiable. We can't see what it's based on. The report that was sent to the Chamber today or that came through the newspapers also confirms the story of PwC, but the Secretary of State denies it. So it is good if the Court of Auditors also looks at it. But, Mr President, we have asked a lot of questions and I would very much like to have answers to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u397	I also constantly urge the Chamber to give the Secretary of State a chance to reply. I therefore agree with you on this point, Mr Bashir. In fact, you agree with what Mr Slob has said, namely: let us finish the debate, then we can always see if we want validation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u398	I suggest we suspend for five minutes. Then we can discuss this proposal with each other. Otherwise, we will have another five different proposals which we will present to you. So I propose a suspension of a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u399	In any case, I do not think it would be wise to suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u400	I give the floor to Mrs Van Veldhoven for a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u401	Mr President, we have consulted all our colleagues. We ask the Secretary of State to answer the outstanding questions in writing in the first term. In addition, we ask her to send a number of documents to the Chamber, namely the report of the ava and the management letter. We also want the Secretary of State's commitment to have an external investigation conducted into the risks, the legality of expenditure and the overall deficit, including the sum of the overall ambitions that have been launched, including in the context of austerity. This is therefore an investigation that is not carried out by ProRail or the Ministry itself, but really an external investigation. We'd like that information in two weeks. We realize that the external research may take a little longer, but the rest of the information we do want in two weeks. Under these conditions, we propose to grant a short second term to the party that would like to table a motion today and to vote on it. The other parties would like to keep a third term on the basis of this information. So we want that information in two weeks' time and then we can have a debate about it right after the autumn recess. That is our proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u402	I look around and I don't see anyone coming to the microphone. I even hear someone whispering that it's a good proposal. I ask the Secretary of State if she has the opportunity to answer all the questions in writing and to send any information requested in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u403	I can, of course, answer all the questions in writing. The management letter is not in my possession. That's just been checked. It wasn't behind the pieces of the deposit note. It's a letter from the accountant to the board to implement it. I'd like to leave it where it is. Then I come to the report of the ava. I've shared all the relevant information with you. Then it is important to know which information belongs to which role. I have promised the Chamber that after every ava the Chamber will report on the broad lines of what has been discussed in it. If I can meet the commitment in this way, we can discuss it with the Chamber on a six-monthly basis. Then I'll come to the external investigation. It is impossible to conduct an external study in two weeks with regard to the validation of, for example, management, maintenance and replacement series. The investigation is large and has been carried out by several parties. Whatever external agency I approach today, it will never be able to validate such an investigation within two weeks. Mrs Van Veldhoven just made a list, but I can't see what she means by it. In the case of financial validation by an external party, it is important to know what the validation should be. I think it's very complicated to have an external investigation done in two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u404	Is part of your answer that you are in favour of the Court's request, but that you would like further information on what needs to be done? Do you say yes to all questions in principle?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u405	It's no problem to do that external validation, but it won't work in two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u406	Mrs Van Veldhoven has also indicated this. The Chamber wants to know who's gonna do it and how it's gonna do it. I think it is a good thing that the Chamber itself, in its procedural meeting, is putting a little more focus on what the investigation should involve. I would like to give a few people the floor on the other points.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u407	Thank you for the clarification on this last point. We are fully aware, as a Chamber, that it will not succeed in two weeks' time, but it is good that the Secretary of State wants an external party to do it. The Empire has the General Court for this and also has an audit service. We can put the proposal into practice, but it is nice that the Secretary of State is in principle prepared to have that external independent investigation done. That's profit. Then there is the question of the Ava report. I don't think the Secretary of State realizes that she's really gonna get away with the agreement that she's gonna report us on the ava half-yearly in the future. The Chamber has clearly stated that it wants the report of the last ava. In the debate, the Secretary of State made it clear that, as a shareholder, she is discussing what is not coming to the Chamber. This room is asking for this information. The same applies to the management letters. There's just a request for information from a broad section of the Chamber. I would very much like to give this serious consideration to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u408	I would like to add that this request has just been made on behalf of the entire Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u409	I am in principle in favour of all requests for information from the Chamber. Let that be my starting point. As far as these two investigations are concerned, I hope that the Chamber will allow me to share the reports with the Chamber in confidence. These are internal parts of the organisation, which contain improvement points. I'd like to hear how the Chamber looks at that. I don't see any agreement from the Chamber right now. Then I'll tell the Chamber. I don't think there's any other way. In fact, I think it is a very unwise undertaking from myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u410	I think it would be wise for Members to discuss all the points in a procedural meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u411	Mr President, I have promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u412	I think it would be wise to give Mrs van Veldhoven the floor now, because she is the one who made the proposal on behalf of the entire Chamber. I think she can also express the feelings of the whole Chamber on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u413	As far as the request for confidentiality is concerned, I can give a very clear answer: no. It is precisely about being able to discuss in public what the situation is. This does not include a request to give this type of information to the Chamber in confidence, which cannot be used in a debate. The Chamber wants that information and doesn't want it confidential.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u414	I just answered that. The answer is yes, I'll give it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u415	Then that point is also resolved. I note that with the undertaking that all outstanding questions will be answered in writing, the answer to the first question by the Secretary of State has come to an end. We shall now proceed with a short second term of office, and I shall give the floor to the only person who has signed up for that second term, Mr Madlener of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u416	Mr. Chairman. The problems on the track have been going on for years and they have everything to do with the way in which they are organised. That means that the Secretary of State only functions as a shareholder and not as a daily director, and that's where he gets the hang of it. The Secretary of State has said quite clearly that nothing will change if it is up to her. This means that we cannot possibly go on in this way. We are convinced that by continuing in this way with only a shareholder role, the problems will prove insoluble. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Secretary of State has no direction on the railway file and lacks the authority to put things in order;]] [[noting that the Secretary of State is not prepared to bring ProRail directly back to the department;]] [[considers that without authority and direct responsibility for ProRail further functioning is irresponsible;]] [[declares confidence in the State Secretary for Infrastructure and the Environment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29984-616]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u417	I fully understand the motion. I have listened to the Secretary of State and my confidence in her has not increased, even more so, that has diminished. So it may be that in the course of this debate, in the third term, the SP Group will come forward with a motion, but we want all the information on the table first. The Secretary of State has now made commitments which will give us certain information. That is why we will wait until the end of this debate. We will therefore not support the PVV motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u418	I assume that the Chamber will be voting on the motion tonight. We came here at the end of the second term of the Chamber. I now give the Secretary of State the opportunity to respond to the motion tabled. I shall therefore give the floor to the Secretary of State for her second-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u419	Mr. Chairman. I don't know the courtesy of motions of mistrust. The first part of the motion states that the Secretary of State has no direction on the track record. If we get anything again, it's the lead on the track record. I didn't say it was gonna be easy. I talked extensively with the Chamber about bringing ProRail back under the department. A year and a half ago, we had a big debate on this. I think the choice that was made at the time, with the support of the Chamber, is the right one. So I have no choice but to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u420	I thank the Secretary of State for her answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-32.u421	There will be a third deadline for this debate later, but we will now vote on the motion tabled.
