ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the initiators Mrs Mulder and Mr Nijboer in response to their second-term initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. I thank the spokesmen for the second-term questions. In fact, they have all indicated that it is important that this law should eventually pass, preferably as soon as possible. They have given us this task, as initiators, and, in particular, in the 'Brussels' section, the Minister. That assignment sounded very clear today. We are in a hurry and the Minister has indeed the clean task of keeping up with us. I think he's gonna do the same thing. To increase the pressure, we are trying to clarify this towards the summer recess. We hope that the Minister will be able to deliver on this, also on our behalf. The SP Group asked a question about 25,000 members: isn't that a bit much? We believe it is important for cooperatives to be able to operate both on the basis of the industry and on the basis of a region. We do not want to rule out an interbranch organisation that is a little larger and goes in the direction of that 25,000 in advance; hence the 25,000 limit. A question has been asked about the common union. You can see the common union as "knowing each other instantly." Of course, that is a very nice form of a common union, but it can also be about how you set up your business processes, how close your coaching is to lending or whether there is involvement in the credit union. We see a common union in that too. In particular, the PVV Group has asked several questions about abuse, including terrorism. One of those questions was whether "credit union" is a protected name. No, that's not a protected name. Does this also apply, for example, to mediation? I said in the first term that a credit union could indeed mediate. Then the credit union is then supervised by the AFM, from the mediation point of view. So I think this is covered in that sense. Is the name protected? No, insurers are not protected in that sense either. So that's how we look at this. Articles 4:19 and 4:20 of the Wft indicate that you are not allowed to provide misleading information and that you should reasonably provide all the information necessary to reach that balance. We really believe that this provides sufficient protection. Of course, the AFM also supervises crowdfunding and mediation. In December, on 19 December to be precise, the Minister sent a letter to the House of Representatives in which he addressed the risks and indicated that the current exemption regime would be tightened, including at the request of the Chamber. So the surveillance of the Wft is already there. There is also a register, as I say to Mr Omtzigt of the CDA, with a range of enforcement options for the AFM. So yes, sanctions are also possible. The Wwft contains, in summary, the money laundering legislation. This includes all regulated financial institutions, including banking intermediaries and credit unions under 10 million. We believe that this has adequately covered the risk of terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mediation is one of our concerns, because it is possible that credit unions choose only to mediate. This raises the question of whether the 'not-for-profit' is maintained, because it is precisely the crowdfunders who act in favour of a credit union that are merely mediators and are in the middle of usury margins. You think you're dealing with a credit union, but you're actually dealing with financial intermediation by a crowdfunder. How's that risk covered? A credit union may or must always combine it with lending and non-profit making.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-5.u4	As I just said, the name "credit union" is not protected. A credit union that decides to intercede alone may do so. They are then supervised by the AFM. The Court has said that it is important that it be tightened up. In that sense, I think Mr Van Dijck is right to draw attention to this. Additional action is already being taken by the Minister for Finance. Perhaps our advisor will be able to deal with this later if he feels the need, but that is how it is in principle arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-5.u5	To what extent is a credit union that only mediates still a credit union? To what extent do "for and by members" and "non-profit" stand? Perhaps there should be an enlightened regime if credit unions are to be allowed to mediate after the granting of loans, but that regime certainly should not be established if they are to intercede sec, because then it is not a credit union. An enlightened regime can be shaped into a label or certificate that guarantees that a credit union is also a true credit union under the law. At least companies will know where they stand when they enter into a credit union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-5.u6	There are umbrella organisations for credit unions that give very clear guidelines to their members on what a credit union should deal with. That is also, in a sense, a guarantee. Above the limit of 10 million, we are faced with stronger supervision by that register and the other things. All in all, we believe that it is sufficiently guaranteed in this way. Why are credit unions also involved in mediation? They do that because they can't raise money yet and therefore cannot grow any further. We are now really at a turning point and our expectation is that we will see less mediation through credit unions when this law is passed and we have arranged an exception in Brussels. Should credit unions/cooperatives really choose to limit themselves to that mediation model, they will soon be under the supervision of the AFM. Mr. Chairman. On the supervisory burden, a motion has been tabled on item No. 15. The initiators consider it important that these supervisory costs are also examined critically in the future. We can therefore agree with the motion. Since we agree with the motion before us, let's leave it to the Chamber. Furthermore, we think it is important that the law can be evaluated in two years' time, because that allows the House of Representatives to sit on top of it and look again at the limit of 100 million. I say that in response to an explicit question from the VVD Group. Mr. Chairman. With this, I am through the questions I have been asked. I would like to give the floor to my colleague, Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-5.u7	Madam President. At the end of Mr Groot's speech, there was another rather fundamental question: are these credit unions going to be successful? On what basis do the initiators actually base that this law will succeed in practice? There are a number of reasons for this. Since it is a rather fundamental question, I would like to start with that and go into it a little more extensively. The first reason is that a number of credit unions have already been set up. This has been done in a detour because it is quite difficult in the current legislation with perpetual loans and participations that cannot be sold to each other. By way of a detour, these things are already being realized, so there is demand for them. The second reason is that there are several credit unions in existence pending this legislation. That's not more than one or a few, but really dozens. A third reason is that credit unions abroad constitute a substantial lending channel for SMEs. Foreign experience thus shows that credit unions can be a welcome addition to the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises. These are three relevant notions that have driven the initiators to make this possible in the Netherlands. Several colleagues have asked about the relationship with banking legislation. The question was in my own words: aren't they too tight; aren't they looking narrowly at this bill? That's right, says Mr Koolmees. That's good. However, there is a reason for this. The reason that credit unions are now limited is because they are impossible by the Financial Supervision Act, the law on making a bank. It is simply forbidden to grant credits to each other. We have banking legislation for a reason. It is there to protect people so that their savings are not at stake or to a limited extent. That's the basic law that doesn't make it possible right now. If you make an exception to that, if you want to make more things possible, I will also tell Mr Öztürk, if you want to make it easier for entrepreneurs to borrow from each other than is now possible under the legislation, then it is logical to look at the issues where you need to relax existing legislation. That is what we are doing with this bill. We make things possible that are currently not possible under the Financial Supervision Act. It seemed logical to the proposers to look at the conditions that apply. In the first period, we discussed in detail what conditions you would like to apply. That brings me to the motions. The motion Aukje de Vries c.s. in piece No. 13 is about the 2.5%. We have discussed this extensively in the first period. It has been deliberately chosen to set the ratio between solvency and the maximum loss that you may suffer on one loan at a quarter. The 2.5% therefore corresponds to 10% solvency. If you have 40 loans and one goes down, you still have 7.5% solvency. If two fall over and you've invested in it, you're really gonna get in trouble and you might lose your money. That ratio is 2.5% at the minimum rate of EUR 10 million. Credit unions are free to maintain a higher solvency on their own. If a credit union opts for 20 million solvency, it could also lend 5% to an individual party. When completing the General Measure, the suggestion is not to set that percentage at 2.5, but to accept up to a quarter of the solvency as a maximum loss on own funds. The initiators insist that this is a reasonable limit. If you put it on half, as the motion seems to suggest, and you have one loan that has to be written off completely, you'll get into some serious problems right away. Then you're equal to 5% of the minimum level of 10%. If you have a second loan that's disappointing, you're already going down the hoofs. So that ratio was deliberately chosen, but it's not necessarily 2.5%. If you maintain more solvency, for example, as the motion states, you could reach 5%, but that is already possible. It also depends a little on the explanation of the motion, but for that reason we are committed to sticking to the implementation of the General Measure on Governance, or at least to giving the Minister the suggestion to take 2.5%. I think the authors want to interpret this a little more broadly, and that is why this motion does not have our warm recommendation to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-5.u8	The question is whether the initiators can see the problem. Mr Öztürk also made it very clear: when a loan is granted and there is still an additional loan to be added, another lender is required. That is certainly the case with capital-intensive companies. Do the initiators see that problem? And what solution do they have for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-5.u9	There can, of course, be additional credit requirements. We believe that credit unions should take this into account in their lending. But of course there are also alternative sources of credit. Credit unions will not be the only funder of credit to SMEs, especially in the case of larger amounts. Undoubtedly, banks will also provide credit. SMEs are, and will remain, largely dependent on banks. This is therefore an additional possibility to obtain credit. I recognise that you can find yourself in situations where you cannot be entirely dependent on the credit union and need to find funding elsewhere. However, one must also consider that credit unions have sufficient solvency not to fall down. After all, it can go wrong with an entrepreneur and it can prevent you from getting your loan refunded. A factor of 1:4 between what you have in equity and what you can lose on one loan, the initiators consider reasonable, all the more so because several colleagues have pointed out the additional risk of concentration, which benefits from the granting of credit in one sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-5.u10	I have another supplementary question. The colleague of the PvdA asked: is this going to fly now? Does Mr Nijboer think that these conditions are going to fly at all? We can make a very nice law, but if it is not a solution to the problem identified, the too limited lending space for SMEs, it is an empty law. At least the VVD wouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-5.u11	We are convinced that this will work. In the United Kingdom, a country in Europe that has much more experience in credit unions, the border is also 2.5%. In the United States, borders are even higher if possible. It is also not a fully airborne border. It works in the United Kingdom, where credit unions have already been established much further than in the Netherlands. I come to the motion in part No. 14. Mr Koolmees also supported that motion, but with a little less enthusiasm than the motion we were just discussing, because he indicated a gradation in desirability of motions. Over the 10 million limit, several colleagues, including the SP, but also Mr Groot of the PvdA and Mr Van Dijck of the PVV, have asked about abuse, when protection enters and whether the 10 million is not a rather high limit. Moreover, the AFM has also pointed this out, which is why we have reached a limit of 10 million. Then there is the point of the European Commission, which Mr Koolmees mentioned, as well as Mrs De Vries: to what extent can exemption be granted? And then there is a third point, and that is that insurers, which are sometimes also cooperative, are already subject to supervision from scratch. So that's where supervision goes right away. We really believe that with 10 million there has been an adequate limit to enable new initiatives. Under 10 million, the solvency requirement does not apply; it only applies to the larger credit unions. We believe that this is an appropriate choice and therefore we would not recommend this motion. Mrs Mulder has already responded to the motion on item No. 15. However, a question remained raised by Mr Van Dijck about the costs of DNB supervision, which were initially €40,000 and which are now €20,000. The question was whether that is appropriate. The answer to that is yes, that is appropriate. We can leave that motion to the discretion of the Chamber, which is not addressed directly to us. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 16 on start-up costs, the flying of credit unions and the way in which that could be even more successful than we already foresee. In the first period, we have already indicated that such a form is very appealing to the initiators, but it is of course up to the Minister of Finance to implement it further in his budget. As far as we're concerned, the verdict is Chamber. The initiators believe that this new law will create more funding for small and medium-sized enterprises and allow more investment, which will lead to more work. The dependence of SMEs on banks, a serious problem, will be reduced. The next fine point of this law is that it has been drafted for and by entrepreneurs. With this law, we are making possible new initiatives that are not yet possible. Innovative legislation is also involved. I started my first term with the right of initiative of the Chamber and how wonderful it is that we are allowed to exercise it. That is the oldest right given to us as a chamber, at the time still in the presence of the prince. The First Chamber has been active since 1815 and was still appointed by the King. We all know that things are different now, but in 1815 the First Chamber members were appointed for life by the King. I don't appreciate any more of that. Fortunately there is no right of amendment and no right of initiative in the First Chamber. The initiators look forward to having heard the first and second term after ratification in the Lower House, we see with confidence that we can also receive the yes word in the Upper Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-5.u12	I would like to thank both initiators, Mrs Mulder and Mr Nijboer, for the defence of their initiative law in the House of Representatives. I also thank their advisors. It's always very special to be in V-K. I shall now give the floor to the Minister for Finance, who has also been asked a few questions. I would also like an opinion on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mr. Chairman. May I once again congratulate the initiators on the way in which they have taken this initiative and taken it upon themselves with compelling force? From Mr Nijboer's closing words he also spoke a compelling force: he would no longer defend the initiative proposal in the First Chamber, he would receive the yes word there. That is exactly the spirit that the initiators have constantly radiated with this bill: left or right, it is going to happen. That's how I'm in it, and that's how the Ministry is in it. We've been very happy to support it. Mr Öztürk asked if I would force the banks to lend to SMEs. The answer to that is no. I can see that he is no longer in the Chamber. Maybe I'll be able to do with this brief answer. But maybe that's not right. The whole answer is: no...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-5.u14	Mr Öztürk did not sign himself out, because he had another committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-5.u15	The answer is: no, I believe that credit is indeed a matter for banks. But that must be done prudently. We should not sit on the seat of banks in assessing which credit applications can or cannot be granted. You would if you said that there should be only one rejection rate of x, which was Mr Öztürk's proposal. It is not like that; it is a private sector, which, of course, operates within the framework of laws and regulations. I certainly wouldn't be in favour of forcing banks into lending. There was an exchange of views between Mr Van Dijck and the initiators on the supervision of credit intermediaries and the protection of the term 'credit union'. I can't believe I didn't come up with that word, because that's what the whole law is about. I don't understand. It's a wake-up call. His specific question is whether you can be called "credit union" as a credit intermediary or crowdfunding platform. For those categories, they need an exemption from the AFM, which really imposes conditions on that type of exemption. So that's definitely not a safe house. If the conditions are not met, the AFM can intervene. It will do the same if it is manifested in this role without applying for a prior waiver. As Mrs Mulder said, we are in the process of giving this form of supervision more hands and feet. So this is a valid point. Then there is the question of the approval of Brussels. I said last time, but I understand that it is unsatisfactory that I am going to give it a great deal of priority. I've already talked to Commissioner Hill about this. I remain personally involved, too, and I make that commitment. You cannot pin me down at any time, but Mrs Mulder has expressed an ambition and I have heard it. However, I cannot make a commitment about a deadline. Mr Omtzigt asked a question about the AMvB. I'll send it to the Chamber as soon as I can. Maybe we can make the agreement that if the Chamber wants to talk to me about it, we can have an AO on it with great priority. I am not in favour of a heavier procedure with all kinds of deadlines, because that is all a waste of time. As soon as we're ready, we'll send that AMvB to the Chamber. If you give this top priority in the Finance Committee, we can talk about it in the very short term and I can move on to Brussels. I do need a final legislative proposal and an AMvB to show the Commission what it asks: what are you going to do, what do you want for an exception in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-5.u16	It is good to hear that the Minister also wants to put the urgency behind this process. When can we expect that filled-in AMvB? How long does the minister need to fill it out? Is that possible for the treatment in the First Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-5.u17	I think we can do it in parallel, because we absolutely must not waste any time. I think we can send the AMvB to the Chamber, regardless of whether the First Chamber has already dealt with it. I'm just looking at the official's lodge to see if we can name a term, in months or weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-5.u18	Two weeks, I hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-5.u19	We're gonna round up the AMvB as soon as possible and make sure we don't waste any time. I shall now turn to the motions, because they are related to them. If the Chamber wants us to be able to get to Brussels quickly and successfully, it must think carefully about what it includes in that AMvB in terms of standards, thresholds and ceilings. Let me explain. In the motion Aukje de Vries c.s. in piece No. 13 refers to a reduction in the investment of the portfolio of the credit union of up to 2.5%. The authors find that problematic. When it comes to that one entrepreneur, the maximum percentage should be set at least 5. There was another question from the first term, which I believe was Mr Koolmees, namely what the rules are in other countries. That's not unimportant. The rules in the UK, Ireland and Poland are the three countries that are very active in this area.... are the same or stricter. The initiators propose a maximum of 15% of the solvency buffer, which is €250,000 per loan or a percentage of 2.5 of the balance sheet. If the balance sheet is greater than 10 million, that amount goes up. They're pretty tighter in Ireland. A maximum of €39,000 or 1.5% of the balance sheet may be lent to one member, regardless of the size of the credit union. The UK, like the proposal of the initiators, has the rule of up to 25% of the solvency buffer. They're tighter in Poland. There it is 15%. I therefore propose to the House that this motion should not be adopted. I would like to be successful in Brussels and I believe that the European Commission will look at experience in other countries and what is considered prudent and what the standards are. If we deviate greatly from that, I think that the Commission will be critical of this, which is understandable, and that my chances of success will be reduced. We, like the initiators, have also considered the substance very carefully and have reached that 2.5%. But I would not be in favour of this motion either in the light of rapid success and the experience of other countries. Which brings me to the motion in part No. 14, in which the government is asked to raise the exemption limit from 10 million to 25 million. It concerns the exemption limit for supervision. This means that smaller credit unions that remain below that limit are not covered by that supervision. I have always defended with the initiators that there is an exemption limit for the smallest credit unions. They really do have a different level of risk. There is greater involvement among ourselves; we have exchanged the arguments for this. Of course, that ends with a certain size. That is why I believe that the border has been chosen prudently. Here too, our chances of achieving an exemption under CRD IV will be greater if we are prudent, as the initiators have done. That is why I would advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 15 the government is invited to have a more critical review of the costs of supervision. I'm willing to do that. I will therefore report back to the Chamber on this, without creating the illusion that it can be much cheaper. Of course, we already have the exemption limit. Up there, it's gonna have to be serious surveillance. There's just a lot of working hours attached to it if you want to do that seriously. We are going to look at that again, even when it comes to the second part of the motion, in which it is asked to vary by size if possible. I will return to the Chamber when the motion is passed. In the last motion, which in part No. 16, by Mr Groot and Mr Omtzigt, a start-up credit for credit unions is requested. Firstly, I would like to ask the initiators if they really need advice. They nod yes. This is really going to have to come from the Economic Affairs budget. As the Chamber knows, the Minister for Economic Affairs has several instruments to support the financing of SMEs. This is an uncovered motion, so that will be at the expense of other regulations. There's nothing in the motion about how to cover that. I can therefore suggest to Mr Groot that we discuss this with the Minister of EZ and then indicate how that should be covered, including financially. The motion in its present form is hard to support. An alternative proposal is that the motion be held and that the Minister for Economic Affairs first responds in writing. But, once again, I myself attach great importance to the discipline that in motions that cost money, even when it comes to a credit facility, is indicated how they are paid. We must make room for this in the budget. Mr Groot could therefore continue the motion, and I would ask the Minister responsible for it for a written reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-5.u20	I would be interested to know what period the Minister of Economic Affairs could respond to this and whether the Minister of Finance could also play a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-5.u21	In promoting a quick response?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-5.u22	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-5.u23	Do you think it's gonna take the Minister a week?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-5.u24	Mine are, but I'm looking at the petitioner. He will also formally have to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-5.u25	If that's possible within a week, I'd like to hold the motion until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-5.u26	Then we'll bet on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-5.u27	At the request of Mr Groot, I propose his motion (33949, No. 16) by the Court of Justice. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-5.u28	I would like to thank the Minister for his second answer. This brings us to the end of the examination of this initiative proposal. I'm suspending the meeting until 1:45 p.m. The vote on both the legislative proposal and the three motions will take place next Tuesday.
