ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u1	I would like to welcome the same Secretary of State as just now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. In 2009, more than 19,000 people died, in 2012 about 20,000 people and in 2013 17,000 people died from the effects of smoking. When you hear those numbers, that'll scare you. There seems to be a decrease, but it's going very slowly. A declining trend is a good trend, and we probably agree on that. In the end, we must ensure that these numbers fall significantly. We only do that by ensuring that people do not start smoking. Of course, we have to help people who smoke to stop, but above all we have to make sure that no one starts anymore. According to the SP, all policies will have to be focused on this. Today, it's about more severe punishment when someone breaks the Tobacco Act. That is a relevant point and I will certainly go into it, but it is absolutely not the only thing we can do. I ask the Secretary of State what he intends to do with raising the fine limit. These fines will be filled in later. Does he have the aim of harmonising with drinking and horeca legislation? Would it not be a good thing if the enforcers and those who are maintained knew that the penalty in the event of a violation of alcohol or tobacco is always so high, rising to the maximum that will be set? The present proposal will make it possible to substantially increase fines for infringements of the smoking ban or the age limit for sales of tobacco products: up to €19,000. The exact amount of this fine will be determined later. In the letter from the Secretary of State, it is proposed to double the fines in the event of a recidivism. What other options does the Secretary of State have in mind? Has there been any research on the effects of higher fines? Has it been proven that this measure will reduce the number of smokers? Is the level of the current fines not sufficiently dissuasive? What are the signals about the consequences of increasing fines among the small group of chronic relapsers? Punishment of sellers and banning the purchase of tobacco by minors are good measures, which we have had for years, but it is all at the end of the line. We must prevent young people from getting tobacco. The Secretary of State himself says that he wants to conduct policies with an effective mix. It's about effectiveness and not about the stage. From this I can conclude that raising the fines is far from the end of what the Secretary of State is going to do. Did I get that correctly? In a year and a half, only 44 fines have been imposed. It makes me feel a little weird. How does the Secretary of State feel about that? Does he think it's gonna help you fine 44 times? We would like to spread our attention from the end of the line to the whole line, to prevent smoking, to promote the cessation of smoking, by punishing the violation of the smoking ban when selling. That is why we are in favour of limiting the number of points of sale, eliminating packaging and a watertight age verification system, which is legally imposed, because the sector is lagging behind with measures. Anyone who wants to give smoking a real blow must ensure that young people do not start smoking. We need to make it as difficult as possible for smokers to get their addictive drugs, but it starts with young people not starting smoking. Don't tempt people. Smoking isn't tough or tasty, but it's sickening and deadly. That is what we need to radiate: smoking is unhealthy and stopping smoking is really very difficult once you are addicted. Does the Secretary of State agree with us that this should be the message? We make it harder on people if we significantly reduce the number of outlets. There are currently between 30,000 and 60,000 tobacco outlets. If we decided to let this lethal substance only be provided by specialty stores, of which there are about 1,150, the temptation to buy tobacco will diminish a lot. At the same time, maintaining, for example, the minimum age of tobacco sales will be much easier. After all, there is a big difference between 1,150 and 60,000; it does make sense that enforcement will be easier. Is the Secretary of State prepared to accept the amendment we have tabled? If we want to discourage smoking, and we want to discourage smoking, we must also ensure that smoking is as unattractive as possible. Despite the ban on tobacco advertising, industry has started to be very innovative. We see that she especially wants to sell very attractive products through the packages. There is talk of the neutral package, plain packaging. Today I have read that the Secretary of State is working on the European directive which states that 65% of the packaging must consist of a warning so that there is less room for advertising on the package. Is the Secretary of State prepared to go further and say: there will be neutral packages and there will be no more advertising via the packaging? We want to go further into that. That is why we have tabled an amendment. Wouldn't it be much better to sell the packages with that cool and hip look that you sometimes have in collection versions out of sight? Packages could just be under the counter. If the smoker wants cigarettes, the package comes out and it's visible. At least it won't be displayed anymore. By thinking that advertising and display shouldn't be allowed, you shouldn't do that in the store either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u3	When you speak of amendments tabled, would you like to mention the number, if you are prepared to do so? That is a lot easier for those who follow the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u4	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, I'm not ready for that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u5	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u6	I have tabled three amendments, so it is one of those three. Is the Secretary of State prepared to accept our amendment to stop tobacco products from being sold? I come to the essential point of enforcement. The Secretary of State has recently said that he welcomes the fact that entrepreneurs are taking steps to improve society. This was specifically about the enforcement of tobacco. You would almost think that the Secretary of State also thinks that is important, but I find that a bit disappointing, he has been saying for years that it is up to the sector itself to come up with a conclusive age verification system. This puts the effective acquisition of a good system on the long track. There are effective systems. Let's maintain through those effective systems. As all sellers have to use it, there is no distortion of competition and it is very clear. If it becomes a closed system, we can shift enforcement to the places where they smoke. The Age Verification report focuses on downright destructive conclusions on the age control-use of the retail sector. It seems logical to me that we should say: we are on the move. I find it very strange that the government has provided an incentive and a subsidy, albeit through the State lottery, but that is a state participation, to an age verification system that has been proven ineffective. In response to questions I asked together with Mr Voordewind, the Secretary of State says that it is true that the system itself is not effective in achieving better compliance, but he is hurrying to add that it may be a tool for a broader approach. However, it may also be a delay to do nothing else. Does the Secretary of State still have any real confidence in the sector after seeing that the pilot failed in Hoorn, for example? We did not receive this information until after six months, when they were simply available and the Chamber had to ask for this evaluation several times. Why is it so difficult with this openness? Where's the problem? Is that with the Secretary of State or the sector? Or is the problem that nothing is effective? It has been decided to conduct investigations into enforcement systems and the way in which enforcement is maintained. That is of course relevant, because if we want it to be maintained, we also need to look at how many situations that goes well and how many situations that does not. The investigation was finally carried out by Bureau Sochter. That agency, to put it mildly, nevertheless has the appearance of conflict of interest against itself. It has conducted an investigation into enforcement systems, while it itself has put an enforcement system on the market. Does the Secretary of State think that this investigation would have had a different outcome if an independent party, for example a university, had done it? Can he give a reflection on that? In addition, I think it is a bit strange that the same Bureau Sober, which does the enforcement of the age control for the Central Food Trade Office, also does that for VWS. We then read in the newspaper that the age checks it does on behalf of the industry itself have been announced. How can we rely on the fact that the age checks that the agency does for the government have not been announced? If an agency has such close links, if it is so often found in the same companies, if it knows those companies so well and if it lets you know that it will be again in the coming months, how can it be a good research agency for the government? How can the Secretary of State, in reply to parliamentary questions, be so sure that there was no conflict of interest during the tendering procedure? Apparently, having an investigative office and an age verification system is not a grounds for exclusion, but it is crazy to put it with one party, while there are several who could and would have done well with that investigation. Can the Secretary of State guarantee me that in future these investigations will no longer be carried out by an agency which has links with industry and at the same time has interests because it has an age verification system? Wouldn't it just be good to have those studies done by universities? They don't have any ties to the industry anyway. In reply to questions from both myself and Mr Voordewind, the Secretary of State states that he was not aware of the fact that the Central Office for Food Trade has been steering the deployment of these ineffective age verification systems, the so-called ID scanners, since 2012. Hasn't that been known much longer? Didn't a WOB procedure show that VWS already received an email from the same agency in October 2011 that it was going to start using the ID reader or the ID swiper? That all comes down to the same thing. So shouldn't the Secretary of State have answered those questions with "yes"? I come to talk about enforcement at municipal level. The responsibility for the supervision of the Drinking and Horeca Act and thus the enforcement of the ban on sales to minors has for some time been with municipal supervisors. What is the state of play of this by the municipalities? We discussed this in the autumn. 44% of the municipalities had an enforcement plan. The Secretary of State then said that he was confident that this percentage would be 88 by the end of the year. Is that what happened? How does he see his role as municipalities left behind? Which intervention ladder does he intend to use? Enforcement is now with the municipalities. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether enforcement is now more effective? Are there, as far as he is concerned, teaching points and, if so, what are they? Do municipalities have sufficient enforcement resources to enforce properly and effectively on both sales and use, i.e. on the smoking ban? How many times was a fine imposed last year? Wasn't there much more warning? How many times has there been a recidivism? Is this information insightful? I have one more point. We know that there is a ban on tobacco advertising. We all accepted that because we know that smoking is deadly and a bad habit. In fact, we all know it's a serious addiction that's hard to get rid of. However, we often see advertisements for the e-cigarette on television. I know the Secretary of State still needs to think about where he's gonna position the e-cigarette. Is the e-cigarette a medicine, is the e-cigarette a legal product such as soft drinks or do we still include the e-cigarette under smoke policy? Wouldn't it be good to take the advertising off the tube until that decision has been made? We know that the e-cigarette can be helpful for some people to quit smoking, but we don't know if the e-cigarette might be the start of smoking. If that's the case, we'll cut ourselves in the fingers. Because we don't know all that and because we do know that the e-cigarette was developed by the tobacco industry to normalize smoking in the street statue on the tram, in pop stages...................................................................................................................................................... What means does the State Secretary have to do that? I'd rather he said the e-cigarette was a cure. There should be no advertising of medicinal products either. I understand, however, that the Secretary of State is not yet ready to decide. Now, as a precaution, pending that decision, let us at least arrange for those advertisements to go off the tube.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u7	I would just like to ask a question about the amendments that have been tabled. Is Mrs Leijten going to file both at the same time? Or does she say, if the ban on display doesn't work out, we limit it to the special shops? I am very curious to see what tobacco shops will look like if they can only sell tobacco and at the same time introduce a ban on display.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u8	I'm sure you have the numbers handy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u9	Yeah, that's the numbers nine and ten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u10	We need to see how they relate to each other in the voting list. The advertising ban that exists, and that I'm bringing in when it comes to not showing up, doesn't apply to tobacco specifics cases. They're allowed to show off. That would remain in principle. I'm mostly interested in the powerwalls that you see in the supermarkets right now. It's more of a continence. As long as it has not yet been transferred to the specialist shop, I believe that tobacco should be sold out of sight. After all, we know it's actually advertising.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u11	Mr. Chairman. January is a month for many people in which they started with good intentions. They want to live up to this, of course. Stopping smoking is one of the top of the good intentions. Stopping smoking is not easy. I know people who did it. Stop smoking pays off, we know that. You keep more money in your wallet, but it's mostly pure profit for your health. Every year 19,000 people die from smoking in our country. It's getting a little less, but there's still way too many of them. The younger someone stops smoking, the more effect it will have, also in view of health later. We know that the opposite is true: the younger you start smoking, the harder it is to get rid of that addiction. It is therefore a good thing that we are working together to create a healthy environment for young people in particular. A non-smoking catering industry contributes to this, and my group is 100% behind this 100% non-smoking catering industry. The smoke-free catering industry in the Netherlands is now unimaginable. Fortunately, there is less and less smoking in cafes, nightclubs and cafes. However, we also see that not every company complies with this ban. We are therefore talking tonight about raising the current penalty rates. The figures we received show that the fines awarded are repeated in 28% of cases. It is therefore a matter of repeating the offence. The Secretary of State states that this is a persistent group, which, as it were, calculates the fines currently in force in business and refuses to comply with the law. Because the penalty limit is now low, it can be rewarding to keep the ashtrays on the table. I ask the Secretary of State to go into more detail on the new ceiling. How sure is he that this will also reduce the number of repeats? This amendment also concerns the fines to be imposed for infringement of the age limit applicable to the sale of tobacco products. The fine amounts of the Tobacco Act are aligned with the Drinking and Horeca Act. For my group, it is important that a single line can be drawn. I am therefore pleased that a three strikes out measure has also been included in the Tobacco Act. This brings me to the point that it is important that the annex to the Tobacco Act will also soon be amended by a General Measure of Management. I'll ask the Secretary of State what else is needed for this. As far as my group is concerned, we should not wait any longer. I can imagine that the General Measure of Management is already in preparation and will be sent to the Chamber as soon as the law is passed. Will the Secretary of State do this? I'd like a response. With a view to increasing the fine ceiling, I would ask the Secretary of State to go into his enforcement policy. A higher fine may lead to more restaurants complying with the law, but let us not assume that in advance. The Secretary of State would like to stress that the law is well respected in many restaurants. In the meantime, we hardly see any improvement at cafes and nightclubs. Can the Secretary of State give an update on the maintenance of non-smoking restaurants? In October, the Court received a letter on the consequences of the ruling of the Supreme Court, which resulted in a general ban on smoking. The letter sent by the Secretary of State to the Chamber on this subject promises an information campaign. Is it true he's not here yet? When will this start? Despite all efforts, there is still a world to be won. At the request of the Christian Union and other political groups, research has been carried out on reducing the number of tobacco outlets. I thank the Secretary of State for sending me all those reports. In his offer letter he writes that he will respond to these reports in the autumn. Those days are behind us now. In previous debates, the Secretary of State asked the Chamber to wait for statements and to give him a chance to develop a vision based on the investigations that are now there. I am disappointed that the Secretary of State's view has not yet arrived. We're really losing our chances. Doesn't the Secretary of State share my sense of urgency? I'd like a response. In a Trimbo report I read that the visibility of tobacco products affects smoking. Young people are tempted to smoke, it is harder for adults to quit smoking. I would like to repeat my previous pleas. Reducing the visibility of tobacco products contributes to reducing tobacco consumption. Does the Secretary of State want to develop policies to keep tobacco displays out of sight? Iceland, Finland, England, Hungary, Croatia and other countries in Europe have preceded us. Why is the Secretary of State stalling? Does the Secretary of State also want to work on a licensing system for sales outlets? Finland shows that the introduction of a licensing system alone reduces the number of outlets. Will the Secretary of State continue to stop sales via vending machines? 10% of tobacco sales take place via vending machines. That's not much, but the vending machines are often in restaurants. Why is tobacco still sold in the hospitality sector when smoking is no longer allowed? Stopping sales via vending machines also benefits enforcement. The SP and the Christian Union together table an amendment on age control. Unfortunately, we have to note that a conclusive age control system does not come off on its own. On the contrary, it is important that all entrepreneurs participate and that there is no discussion about the effectiveness of the system. That's why we'd like to anchor this in the law. Finally, I started my argument with the remark that quitting smoking pays off. The younger someone stops, the better. Even better is not to start at all. More and more schools opt for a non-smoking schoolyard. For the summer of 2014, an important motion from me was adopted on this point. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how he wants to make 100% smoke-free schools and schoolyards and in whatever way he is committed to doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u12	Mr. Chairman. It has been said here before, but it cannot actually be said often enough. At the moment, lung disease is still the biggest cause of death. 19,000 people die a year from the direct consequences of smoking. So it is also important that we do everything we can to discourage smoking as much as possible. That starts with the youth. Smoking's not tough, smoking's deadly. That is why the CDA also welcomes the fact that the Secretary of State has looked at the fines handed out to those who violate the smoking ban. Of course, it is also a bit harsh that in recent times customers and operators have been saving up to pay for the violations of the smoking ban. That's putting the horse behind the cart. It is necessary to deal with this, and I think that is a very good proposal from the Secretary of State, but I would like to ask a question about his approach. Because in the explanatory statement to our questions, he now writes that he is likely to increase the fines but does not yet know exactly how many. I would like the Secretary of State to clarify this. Is he going to raise the fines now, when is he going to do that, and exactly how high are the fines going to be? Or is he going to see if compliance improves and then decide whether or not the fines go up? I'd like more explanation on that. The second is that the Secretary of State also confirms in answers to our questions that the starting point of this bill is not to generate additional revenue for the government. I agree with the Secretary of State. This is about enforcing a law, not a money machine. So my question is also whether the Secretary of State is prepared to put the money he is taking in imposing these fines into a prevention fund. I think it's a nice thought. We're here at the end of the line. In this way, we can invest that money at the beginning of the line, namely by discouraging young people from starting smoking. One final question is about the smoke monitor youth of the Trimbos Institute. In the House of Representatives we have discussed this on several occasions, including during the budget debate. The starting point for many parties in the Chamber is that young people should not smoke. We can only see whether the measures taken by the Secretary of State are effective when we have an understanding of the figures, and we can see whether more or less young people are going to smoke. The Secretary of State says over and over again: I have a monitor sister and a monitor like that. We had a very good monitor, which will soon be able to give a very good insight into the age at which young people start smoking, if the age at which they are allowed to smoke is increased. We certainly hope that they will not do so. I call once again on the Secretary of State to make sure that this fine smoke monitor youth of the Trimbos Institute is simply restarted and that we can talk about good grades here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u13	Mr. Chairman. We all agree: smoking is addictive and extremely dangerous to health. Reducing the number of smokers is a long-term issue, but we are on the right track to offer citizens a healthier future. The aim of the legislative amendment before us is to ensure the highest possible compliance with the measures taken. Appropriate fines and sufficient space to fight recidivists are necessary. The increase in the minimum age to 18 years and the overall smoking ban were two major milestones in combating smoking in the past year. My group was very pleased with that. The amendment we are discussing tonight may be a small step, but it is another one. We must also cherish them. The current two penalty ceilings are supplemented in the new legislative proposal by an intermediate ceiling for the violation of the smoking ban and the age limit for the sale of tobacco products. As I said, I do not need to tell anyone here that smoking and smoking are very harmful to health and that addictions often occur at a young age. Therefore, my party wholeheartedly supports the increase in the penalty ceilings for the violation of the smoking ban and the age limit for the sale of tobacco products. In order to improve compliance, higher fines are necessary, with greater deterrent effect. Higher penalty ceilings also give more opportunity to crack down on recidivists. Unfortunately, there is still a group that systematically ignores bans and takes the current fines for granted. This increase creates that space. The only question is whether this change of law will have a direct effect in practice. The actual fines are currently determined at AMvB. As far as my party is concerned, there is an immediate point of criticism. The government is considering maintaining the actual fine for the first violation of the smoking ban or the age limit for the sale of tobacco products at €600 and triple the fine in the event of a recurring infringement. The odds of getting caught are small. To what extent does the Secretary of State consider it likely that the proposed intermediate ceiling will actually be imposed? To what extent does he expect the municipalities to apply these ceilings? I'd like to get a response to that. At the end of 2013, with the support of the majority of the House of Representatives, I called on the State Secretary to come forward with a ban on the sale of the e-cigarette under 18 years old. E-cigarettes contain addictive and harmful substances and contribute to the standardisation of smoking. Young people in the Netherlands are still far too little protected from this. Young people can still buy e-cigarettes. The EU Tobacco Products Directive allows the Netherlands to have an age limit. The effect has been delayed, while the health gains lie before the picking up. I was therefore somewhat surprised that this morning I was able to read in the Volkskrant that the Secretary of State is going to the Council of Ministers tomorrow, stating that it was his own initiative. I am glad that he has now incorporated it as his own initiative. Of course, I would very much like this to be dealt with as soon as possible. Can the Secretary of State state state, while we are here, why this has not been done in the past year and at what time he expects to be able to arrange this? I really want to point out that we have been waiting for this for some time. I urge him to speed up this and send a timetable for its elaboration to the Chamber. Can the Secretary of State also comment on the possibilities of countering the advance of other cigarette-like products, such as the shisha pen and the bong? I've asked questions before about winning shisha pens on fairgrounds and promoting that product as something innocent. Will the proposal by the Secretary of State to the Council of Ministers tomorrow to prevent the sale of such products succeed? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Raising the minimum age is a long-cherished wish of ours. It means not only that young people are no longer allowed to buy tobacco products, but that many schools are also strengthened in their fight against smoking in the schoolyard. Mrs. Dik already referred to her motion. A still too large group of young people under the age of 18 start smoking. In order to protect our young people from the harmful effects of tobacco, it is very important to have a clear view of the size, composition and motivation of the group of young people who choose to smoke. During the budget debate, my party has therefore called for attention to be paid to good monitoring of smoking behaviour in young people. The Secretary of State has chosen a new design for the lifestyle monitor. With this new form, we are losing sight of an important group, namely young people over the age of 16, young people not going to school and young people on the MBO. It is precisely now that the age limit has been raised that we think it is very important to get a look at that group. Mrs Bruins Slot also referred to the smoking monitor youth that was performed until recently and gave a good view of the smoking behaviour of the group of 16- to 18-year-olds. I'd like that monitor restored. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. On this point, too, my group is considering a motion. We think it is very important that we keep a close eye on this group. Finally, I would like to commend the Secretary of State for the progress on this dossier. This has been different in previous Cabinets. We are not here yet, but I welcome the proposals that the Secretary of State is going to the Council of Ministers tomorrow, as stated in the Volkskrant. I therefore expect that he will be able to inform us quickly about what has been discussed tomorrow and that the cabinet response to the reports sent to the Chamber for the summer will not be too long, so that we can look at an effective and coherent package of smoke discouragement measures. This will enable us to take a further major step in the fight against smoking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u14	Mr. Chairman. Although we are dealing with a rather small technical amendment here, I would like to say a few words about it, even if it is only since this week that I have been able to deal not only with long-term care, but also with prevention and, therefore, tobacco policy. Many have already said: smoking is bad. There's not gonna be a lot of people who haven't figured that out yet. We must combat smoking among young people. However, I think it is also important to always bear in mind that it is still a legal product and that adults still have the right to make their own choices in it. This change of law allows the cabinet to increase the penalty rates on non-compliance with the smoking ban and the age limit on sales in the future. We understand in itself that the cabinet is looking for room for this when you look at the number of violations. However you look at the content of certain laws or rules, if they have been adopted, they must also be respected. Any increase in penalty rates will be submitted to the Chamber in due course through a General Measure of Management. The VVD will assess that AMvB on its merits. We really only have a few technical questions for the Secretary of State. On the one hand, he indicates quite extensively what he would see in such an AMvB. On the other hand, we still need to get the AMvB. Is it true that, as long as there is no AMvB, nothing changes the penalty rates at all? In my opinion, we would not have finished the month in January 2015, but we now have the debate on the most recent enforcement figures. I think they're in the annual report...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u15	Can I ask Members to consult or follow somewhat in the hallway what is being said to them from the seat of the speaker? Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u16	Luckily, they're women. They can multitask, so I'm sure they listen well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u17	Just in case, I'm gonna tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In short, we would like to get an insight into the most recent enforcement figures. The VVD is especially curious about the moment for the Secretary of State to use that AMvB. In his explanatory statement, he said that the enforcement rate would be comparable to the other sectors and the other rules that would be respected. What exactly is comparable? At what point should enforcement be at what level to perhaps not use the AMvB? Finally. I started by saying that this is a fairly small and technical law change, not even a page and a half. Some parties use them to make very far-reaching proposals for the adaptation of the Tobacco Act. Apart from how we assess the content of the amendments, we do not think that this is the way to take such far-reaching and far-reaching measures and to include them in a minor legislative amendment per amendment. If we can believe the newspaper, the Secretary of State is working hard to implement the European directives. Then we can have a good debate on what further measures can be taken. That was my input, but Mrs Leijten is standing by the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u19	Before I give her the floor, on your last point, I note that you are free to do so, but then you must argue that something is a destructive amendment. You can make that choice, but you don't make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u20	The moment you submit, it's up to the proposers. If there's a law change ahead, you can use that moment to change other things in the law as well. I am using our time, but I am certainly using our resources as widely as possible. When it comes to enforcement, I do think it is important to talk about the prevention of sales. That is what the amendments are aimed at.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u21	There is always the possibility of someone saying that this is a destructive amendment and that is what this is about. I'm not saying it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u22	Maybe it's useful if the VVD itself says what she thinks. I do not deny anyone the right to table an amendment in the event of a legislative amendment. That's not illegal. Mrs Leijten has the honour to do so. However, I say that I think it is quite far-reaching amendments. Reducing the number of outlets has enormous economic implications. That is, by definition, a reason for the VVD not to support the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u23	One of the amendments was co-signed by me. If the VVD has listened to me carefully, and that is probably the case, then it is well known that I will certainly support both other amendments. We have repeatedly asked in the debate whether the Secretary of State wishes to present a vision on the number of sales points and so on. The Secretary of State said, "Wait a minute, I'll come up with a vision in the autumn." That autumn has now come to an end. Then it is a good right of politics, now that the Secretary of State has not come up with a vision, to take a step himself and to ask for a ruling from the House of Representatives on the basis of the reports that lie ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u24	I do not deny anyone the right to table amendments. My group, however, weighs the process differently. Moreover, I think it would be a good idea to await the reaction of the Secretary of State. Pretending that nothing is happening on this file is a little exaggerated to me. Mrs Rebel appreciated that very positively. In fact, if there is a great deal going on on one dossier lately, that is the tobacco dossier. The ink of one measure is not yet dry or the next is requested. Haste rush is not always good; a certain thoughtfulness and a careful look at what measures mean, seems to me to be wise. Mrs Dik-Faber is free to table 100 amendments here. I am free to say that because of the process alone I will not support those amendments. It seems to me that she should only appreciate that clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u25	The Christian Union notes that there is movement on this file, that the Secretary of State is committed to this. I like that, too. At the same time, I see that the Secretary of State has not yet given a view on a number of crucial aspects, even though he has said: I come up with that vision. I am also in favour of a careful process, but if that process fails somewhere, I invite the VVD group to closely monitor that process with me. If the Secretary of State says that he is coming up with a vision in the autumn, let us address him and ask him what remains of that vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u26	At the same time, speed must never become the enemy of mind. We assume that the Secretary of State will come quickly with this and have used his time to think through all these measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u27	In order to avoid any possible misunderstanding, I merely pointed out in a technical sense the possibility of declaring an amendment destructive under Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u28	Mr. Chairman. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats also considers it important that there should be a firm policy on tobacco discouragement. We are now trying to adapt and strengthen the Tobacco Act in steps and steps. I would like to express my appreciation for the steps taken by the Secretary of State. D66 agrees with the principle of this amendment: improving the enforcement of the smoking ban and the age limit for tobacco sales. In fact, as early as 2013, I said that a fine of €4,500 combined with a low cost could lead to a calculating effect on the seller. That has been shown: there is a small group of persistent recidivists. Of these fines, it seems that there is not enough deterrent effect, as the Secretary of State also concludes. My group thinks it is very good to tackle this problem more effectively, especially now that the small cafes are again covered by the smoking ban. I understand that this legislative amendment will only create the possibility of increasing fines, but will not actually do so in the first instance, because the Secretary of State would first like to see whether the possibility of increasing fines already has a sufficient deterrent effect. The Secretary of State considers that if compliance with the smoking ban by the cafés and discotheques group is greatly improved, consideration could be given to keeping it to the current fines. I just want to make sure I'm right. I'd like to hear that from the Secretary of State. I would also like to ask him when there is such an improvement that there is no need to increase the fines and introduce the AMvB. It is precisely in order to be able to deal with the small group that has not been able to deal with the current fines at all. Does the Secretary of State really think that threatening this group with higher fines is a deterrent? The odds of getting caught aren't very big. That has already been said by others. Only raising a fine while the chances of that fine actually being imposed are still low, in my opinion, has a little deterrent effect. Letter of amendment also increased the fine ceiling for infringement of the age limit for the sale of tobacco products. The Secretary of State has previously concluded that compliance with the standards laid down in the Tobacco Act was generally satisfactory. Nor would the gap that existed between the tobacco advertising ban and the other infringements of the Tobacco Act be regarded as disturbing; there are huge fines for violating the tobacco advertising ban. Now the Secretary of State seems to see that differently. I would like to know from him whether he sees this differently and whether he thinks it would be conceivable that higher penalty limits would also be necessary for other offences. The Secretary of State knows our views. We believe it is important that there is a strong tobacco discouragement policy, that there is a great deal of attention to information and prevention, and that there is maintenance and monitoring of order. That is why I asked the Secretary of State to investigate the effectiveness of reducing the number of outlets. Tobacco will be more difficult to obtain and enforcement will be easier. I also asked for a step-by-step plan in a motion. The Secretary of State thought that was premature at the time. He wanted to see the investigations first, as others have already said. We now have those investigations, but we have not yet seen the substantive response of the Secretary of State, who was due to come in autumn 2014. That's too bad, because we can't take them now. I'll ask the Secretary of State when he comes up with his vision. Maybe he can give us a little glimpse of that vision. Does he see anything in a step-by-step plan to reduce the number of points of sale? Several media today report that the cabinet will be discussing the EU's smoking disincentive directives tomorrow. The Secretary of State is laughing now, probably because I have always understood from the Minister that once it has been said that it is being discussed, it will not happen. This seems to be an unwritten law for the cabinet, so perhaps it will be postponed. However, I have a question for the Secretary of State. Is it true he's going to talk about this? If the cabinet agrees, when can the EU directives be implemented? I would like to join with the CDA and the PvdA in arguing for the use of the Smoking Youth Monitor of the Trimbos Institute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u29	I give the floor to Mrs Gerbrands of the PVV Group for her first re-action, if I am not mistaken.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u30	Mr President, that is correct. I'm probably the only one who's making a counter-sound today. We have always strongly opposed the ban on smoking, especially in the hospitality sector, and we are still doing so. However, we believe that a law, once it is in place, should also be enforced. We therefore believe that enforcement should be used. However, we are opposed to the proposed increase in fines. From 1 January 2015, the smoking ban also applies to cafes less than 70 m without staff. Raising these fines will mostly affect these small companies. We have been able to read this week that the brown cafe from the street is disappearing. We should not encourage this further. We shall therefore vote against it. There is much talk about research into the consequences of using the e-cigarette. Today the message has come out that the e-cigarette is more carcinogenic than an ordinary cigarette, especially by using the batteries. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether he is aware of the relevant investigation and whether this will be included in the evaluation on its use and sale.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u31	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the bill to increase the penalty ceiling in relation to the smoking ban and the age limit. This is important because it is an important part of a range of measures that we have taken over the past period, are taking and may still be taking to discourage smoking further. As several Members have said, we know that tobacco products are very harmful to public health. That is why I am trying to implement an integrated tobacco discouragement policy to prevent young people in particular from starting smoking, to help smokers stop smoking and to prevent smoking as much as possible. I understand that a number of Members would prefer to have my reaction today to numerous investigations into the points of sale. I think I'd better name that red elephant right now. Although, a red elephant? It's a pink elephant. I'm so used to the color red, I make that mistake every time. Excuse me. A number of Members have already said that the Chamber will soon be expecting a broad policy letter on tobacco discouragement from me with my response to all these studies: the deployment of non-smoking schoolyards and the NIX campaign18. I also inform the Court in that letter about the state of implementation of the Tobacco Products Directive in national laws and regulations. It would be my great preference if we were to talk today about this measure, which is now being prepared, and that, in line with the agreements, we should discuss it in this context, in line with my response to all these investigations, which will enable us to consider what package of measures is in front of us and which package can be considered further. I shall speak about this when I give my opinion on the motions and amendments. I suggest we focus on the fines today. In the further letter I will send, I can very well inform the Chamber about the state of play in the implementation of the tobacco directive. It is incredibly important to know what is coming out of that so that we can make that integrated assessment. We can do that at the moment that balance is on the table in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u32	I understand what the Secretary of State is saying, and I understand that he wants to do so. Only, he had announced that he would come with it in autumn 2014. The Secretary of State will understand our disappointment and will understand that we would have liked to have more speed. Now that the Secretary of State says so, I'd like to know when we can expect this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u33	I expect to be able to do this for the next four weeks. One of the reasons for this is the agreement not only to conduct these studies, but also to see what came out of the implementation agreements on the Tobacco Product Directive. It's pretty much done now. Now I have to deal with them in legislation and regulations to implement them. This means that I now have a complete picture of the measures we have taken, the investigations that have been carried out and the consequences of the implementation of the EU Tobacco Products Directive. I think we have the playing field on the table now, so I can offer the Chamber that integral vision between now and a week or four.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u34	I thank the Secretary of State for that term. I hope we can hold him to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u35	My group, too, has expressed its disappointment at the fact that the reports were not yet available. We have not tabled any motions or amendments in debates because the Secretary of State said that we would still have a vision. Now he says it again: I'll come up with a vision in four weeks. I really hope we can hold him to that. I would like to highlight one of my points: the schoolyards. There's been a motion on the schoolyards. Can the Secretary of State indicate in this debate what is the state of play at the moment? I do not think that we need to wait, because this is just a Chamber speech. I think this is a very important step to prevent young people from starting smoking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u36	I should like to return to Mrs Dik-Faber's precise questions. However, I would just like to say that it is a little strange to note that there is a feeling of disappointment. For my part, I would like to make an attempt to remove some of that disappointment. We have taken a large number of measures together, from campaigns to smoking bans throughout the catering industry, to age limits, to tastes. Those were quite a few measures. We then wondered whether we could do more and whether we should not overlook the whole palette. In a debate, we said: let us pay attention. A number of things also played a role in the European debate. I would like to point out that there are at least four issues which are also relevant to national legislation, namely the age of 18-plus with regard to the e-cigarette, the advertising of the e-cigarette, the photos on the packages and the question of tastes in tobacco products. This means that there is still a whole range of measures, resulting from the European directive. I think that gives us that complete picture. So we have taken many measures, carried out studies for the future and implemented a number of implementations in national legislation. So there's a whole laundry list on the table. This gives us a pretty good overview and we can very well discuss what the good mix would be to do something, whether additional or not, on that whole package. That will also be the direction of my explanation of the motions. I'll come up with the reason for the bill. You almost forgot. The present bill is about a higher penalty limit in the Tobacco Act. Simply put, this is necessary in order to comply with the commitments I made to the Chamber to align the penalty rates for the infringement of the age limit in the Tobacco Act with the penalty rates for the infringement of the age limit in the Alcohol and Horeca Act. I say this in the direction of Mrs Leijten, who specifically asked for it. So we're gonna match this to the fines in the Drink and Horeca Act. In addition, I would like to make this new penalty ceiling applicable to the infringements of the smoking ban. Tobacco discouragement is, of course, very important to reduce the number of smokers and co-smokers, also in view of the importance of public health. An important part of this is the smoking ban in the hospitality industry. Should compliance with the smoking ban now stagnate or deteriorate, or if there is a persistent recurrence, it will also be possible to increase the actual fines at AMvB. I think we should switch that with each other. I am thinking of the following approach. We can increase the fines at AMvB. I will come back later to talk about the corresponding technique. I'd like to make the AMvB fastest. It synchronizes the fines with the Drink and Horeca Act. In addition, I would like to assess together on the basis of the smoking ban compliance figures when increasing the fines for non-smoking offences is necessary. Now that the small catering industry joins us in early 2015, we get a new zero measurement. We then have a solid basis to see what has happened so far and whether it is going well or not. There's gonna be a category. This seems to me to be an excellent zero measurement on the basis of which we can say at a later date whether there is any reason to further adjust the fines on the smoking ban. This legislative proposal therefore provides for an increase in the penalty limit of the administrative penalty for non-smoking offences and the age limit of up to €20,250. This amount shall be indexed every two years. I have already said that this increase makes it possible to adjust the level of administrative fines at AMvB so that the penalty rate for the age limit and the penalty rate can be adjusted in the context of the smoking ban. The AMvB needed to introduce this increase in fines can be made once the law has been passed by Parliament. Mrs. Rebel asked how fast that was going. As soon as the law is in place, I can make the AMvB in which I will adjust the increase in the fines for breaching the age limit. Mrs Dik-Faber also asked for this. This therefore results in a single penalty rate for the infringement of the age limit for alcohol and tobacco quite quickly. A number of members of the Chamber have asked what exactly is the situation with regard to fines and compliance, and how they should see it. From 2010 onwards, around 4,000 controls have been specific to compliance with the smoking ban. This resulted in slightly more than 4,500 fine decisions until February 2014. 28% of the fine decisions concerned repeated cases, as Mrs Dik-Faber pointed out. 217 decisions were imposed on all other provisions of the Tobacco Act during this period. In 15% of cases, recidivists were involved. In short, 95% of the cases are really a violation of the smoking ban, as far as the Tobacco Act is concerned. The conclusion on the basis of the repeated figures is that there may be reason to adjust those figures. The maximum fine for violation of the smoking ban was imposed 54 times in 2012 and 59 times in 2013. The figures for 2014 will soon be announced at the reports of the NVWA. It was also asked whether compliance had improved following a doubling of the fines in 2011. In hospitality establishments where there is a risk that the smoking ban will be breached, such as discotheques and cafes not covered by the smoking ban exception, compliance in the period 2009-2010 indeed shows a downward trend; up to 49% compliance in autumn 2010. In 2011, fines in the event of a smoking ban infringement doubled. From 2011 onwards, compliance with the smoking ban has gradually increased. The latest measurement for autumn 2014 shows that 82% of the nightclubs and 77% of the cafés comply with the smoking ban. Compliance has thus increased in general, but this does not mean that there is no hard core offenders of the smoking ban. All in all, it's not on a prescription. Fines help. Sturdy fines help, of course. But we will have to constantly look at how the figures are developing and whether they give rise to the increase in fines or not. I shall now turn to the questions put by the Chamber. I think I have already answered Mrs Leijten's question on the harmonization of drinking water and food legislation. That is indeed the intention. Mrs Leijten also asked if I would take further measures and do more than just increase the fines. I have tried to show that we are certainly doing more than just increasing the fines. We have already taken a number of measures. They're pretty solid in the eyes of some people. I have sent some inquiries to the Chamber on which we can think further. I am also working on the implementation of the European directive. I cannot, of course, say whether and when it will be discussed in the Council of Ministers, but I am hopeful that I will soon be able to send the proposals to the Chamber. I would point out that this is not just about legislation, but also about information and campaigns to increase knowledge and awareness and cooperation with civil society organisations. As I have just said, I will do my best to send a letter to the Chamber between now and four weeks with an overall overview, so that we can look at effective measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u37	I asked the Secretary of State not only to think about campaigns and such things, but also to make cigarette availability more difficult, by selling them out of sight, by using a comprehensive age verification system or by letting them go to tobacco shops. Is that part of the overall vision or is there no room for that in the upcoming plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u38	Of course there is room for that in the overall vision. We don't make them for nothing. In doing so, the measures we have taken will be reviewed, and the state of play will be clearly stated. We have received a series of reports in which other suggestions are made. We have the implementation of the EU directive. Then we have a whole package, where we can look at an effective mix of measures. There will be different views in this Chamber. One has more fiduciacy in the measures than the other. Sometimes measures are mutually exclusive. As part of the implementation of the EU Directive, work is now under way on placing warning photos on packages. When you propose to do a displayban, you actually say that you should put another curtain on it. You have to consider which measure is best. I will not yet judge what you think is best or not best. It illustrates, however, that we need to put the various measures together and then look at what is the most effective mix.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u39	Those photos or warnings on packages are mainly aimed at smokers, to remind them, every time they pack, how harmful it is. That doesn't have everything to do with the sale. I don't think these things bite each other at all, but apparently we think differently about that. From the answer given by the Secretary of State, I would point out that he will not opt for plain packaging, neutral packages, so there is no advertising at all anymore. The 65% warning has to be on it. So the Secretary of State isn't thinking about that anymore. After all, he's implementing all that 65%, I just heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u40	We have the European directive that we have to implement and incorporate into national legislation for a good reason. You asked if we're limited to fines or that there are other things. The answer to that is: yes, we do not make that overall overview of possibilities for nothing. We need to discuss with the Chamber what we think is the optimal mix. What one finds optimal, the other will not find optimal. So that's what we'll talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u41	I assume that the Secretary of State will look not only at what is effective in the context of tobacco policy but also at what the other possible effects of the measures are, let me mention, entrepreneurship. I have heard this evening that there is a huge reduction in the number of points of sale. From a tobacco vision you can be for that, but for many petrol pumps this is the death sting. I'm assuming that that consideration will be included in his piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u42	All kinds of effects must be taken into account when weighing all kinds of measures. Think of the economic impact and the estimated effects on enforcement and compliance. What's the most effective thing? That will be different for each party. For example, the balancing of the SP was not to support this for the small catering industry, while the measure for the number of outlets is supported. I try to follow these considerations sometimes. Each party will weigh it in a different way. I would point out that in the policy on fines we have additional measures in addition to fines. I point to the three strikes out. In the event of a breach of the ban on the sale of tobacco to persons below the age limit, the Tobacco Act provides for the possibility of prohibiting the owner of a Catering Establishment from selling tobacco for a maximum period of 12 weeks. This is also a measure that could be considered as a complement to the fine package. Mrs Leijten asked if I agree with the message that smoking should not begin. I agree. Much of the policy is aimed at preventing smoking among young people. There's a reason we took a measure for an age limit. We also designed the NIX18 campaign. We are talking to young people about how to campaign even more effectively. We'll bet on non-smoking schoolyards. We encourage the provision of information to parents and children on the importance of non-smoking growing up. It is very important to focus on young people in addition to all kinds of measures for fines and other measures. Mrs Leijten asked how many municipalities have a prevention and enforcement plan. I assume she was referring to the supervision of the Drink and Horeca Act. That is not entirely on the agenda today. However, I have already promised the Chamber that I will review the municipal plans. That's what we're doing right now. The Chamber will soon be informed of this. Mrs Leijten also asked a number of questions about the enforcement investigation concerning the Bureau of the Sochter. How's that going? We're setting up a research assignment. Desktops can sign up for that. They will then be tested for price and quality. Following an extensive European procurement procedure and an extensive review of the criteria, the choice has been made at this office. In response to the questions that were raised, of course, we have looked at whether there are any links that could prevent the execution of the mission. Those tapes are gone. The agency has indeed been involved in the development of ID scanners in the past; this is no longer the case. In the past, the agency has also worked for the CBL (central food trade agency). That is not in itself an obstacle, but I very much agree with Mrs Leijten: there must of course be no discussion about the results of the research. Moreover, Bureau Sochter itself proposed that a scientific committee be set up to monitor the way the research is carried out and the results obtained in order to further ensure the results. I think this is very good. That investigation must go very well. It cannot be that we are conducting an investigation in which, for example, parties would be warned about the time when a check is to take place. Then we wouldn't get good grades. We're gonna watch that very closely. I fully agree with Mrs Leijten that we must have research results which really matter, which are ours and not the sector and which lead to us getting good grades. That brings me to the subject of the systems: ID scanners or other systems. I have always taken the view that we have a law that must be respected. I don't care what kind of system it is using, because we're not going to get behind any of the importance of any system. We ask the sector to comply with the law. That law must be properly observed and better respected, with any system. I do not want to bind myself to promoting or not promoting a particular system. It's up to all of them. We have a law here; it must be observed; it is sometimes checked whether that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u43	I'll come back to the conflict of interest. At the time of the tender procedure for conducting the investigation, Bureau Sochter was indeed still related to one of those age verification systems. In doing so, it simply does research for the supermarkets themselves into internal controls. I asked the Secretary of State not only about the links that the agency has with one of the systems, but also about the awareness of the sector that controls it on behalf of the government. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to comment on that. Doesn't he think that's a danger? Is it not better to have that research carried out in the future by an independent institution which clearly does not have any mandates from the sector that we have to monitor?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u44	In these cases, I always try to work through the purest tender procedure possible, in which agencies can register. Sometimes these agencies have worked for the sector and sometimes they haven't. It goes a little far for me to say that if you've ever been commissioned by a sector, you can never do research in that sector again. In that case, the number of offices would also decrease significantly. However, I agree with Mrs Leijten that we must be very keen to ensure that the research is conducted properly and purely. Moreover, the investigation has yet to be carried out. This is not a survey of ID scanners or compliance systems, but a study of mystery guests to determine how compliance is carried out in practice. I do not see so much as a conflict or interest there. We will monitor this very closely. We have already done so, and we will certainly do so in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u45	If a research firm has to control a sector on behalf of the government, if it has to check whether the sector complies with the rules on the sale of alcohol and tobacco, which we know is very lucrative for supermarkets, for example, to sell it and to continue selling it, is it undesirable that the research firm has a direct relationship with the same sector, not because it has done a little research in the past, but because it has just one-on-one the bond to do that research in the sector itself? Why don't you go out on some slippery ice? Does the Secretary of State really not think that there are too close links and that it is a little "the butcher's approval of his own meat"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u46	No, that would be wrong. Those close ties aren't there in my opinion. The agency used to be involved in the development of ID scanners. It's not anymore. Those interests have been divested and are all gone. Now it's a study based on mystery researchers. Then we can say in advance that this may not be good, but I think we have had a very good tendering procedure. We have also agreed on the way the investigation is conducted. There's a scientific committee. It goes a little far for me to say in advance: that will not be good. Well, then you're assuming too few facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u47	I will only give you the floor if you do not repeat yourself, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u48	I mean something else. I mean that the agency should investigate a sector on behalf of the government, whereas that sector is a direct contractor of that agency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u49	That's it. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u50	The agency carried out internal checks in the supermarkets. Those checks were announced. It will now carry out checks in the same supermarkets. Is it desirable for the same agency, which has such close links with the sector, to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u51	It is no reason to say, in the context of a European procurement procedure, in which you have a tender with different agencies, that you should not, because... that would go very far, because that means that if you have ever done research with a client, you would never be able to do research with the same client for another purpose. I'm trying to be completely neutral in that. Anyone can file complaints against the procurement procedure. Those complaints are handled neatly. However, I very much agree with Mrs Leijten that it should be an investigation that produces figures that have been produced in a good and honest way, which have been carefully considered and on the basis of which we can also make a good assessment of enforcement. Mrs Leijten asked a specific question about the advertising of e-cigarettes. I would point out that the Tobacco Products Directive provides for an advertising ban on e-cigarettes in the press and audiovisual media. The same applies to radio and sponsorship. I intend to discuss this earlier with you in order to set up a similar advertising regime for e-cigarettes in the implementation of the Tobacco Products Directive as is currently the case for tobacco products. This means that this is done in the same way. Mrs. Rebel asked how fast this is going. We are now in the process of implementing the directive. I hope to be able to send this bill to the Chamber before the summer. I come to Mrs Dik-Faber's questions. She asked when the campaign "smoke-free catering" will start. It is scheduled to start in early February. I thought we shared that planning with the Chamber before, but I'm not sure. Mrs Dik-Faber also asked: the fines come in an AMvB; is that AMvB sent to the Lower House? The fines applicable to an infringement of the Tobacco Act are set out in the Annex to the Tobacco Act. That Annex is set out in the General Measure of Governance and the modification of the amounts of fines is therefore also set out in that Annex. There is a so-called follow-up procedure for this. This means that the AMvB will not enter into force until eight weeks after the date of issue in the Official Journal in which the AMvB is placed. Both Chambers will be notified of their placement without delay, so that they have room to respond. I can imagine that Members of Parliament consider all this to be an important subject. I can therefore also imagine that I will inform the Chamber in advance of the intended increase in fines. That is then before she will receive the AMvB in proceedings. In my view, this is the best way to provide the Chamber with information. It can then consider in good time whether it can agree with the AMvB that is still to come. At least the Chamber has been warned he's coming. It has been asked whether the recidivism can decrease with the maximum fine of €20,000. We will also decide on this in the General Measure of Governance. Of course, we can take specific account of recidivists if the enforcement figures show that the recurrence is increasing. That in itself is the nice operation of the system of penalty ceilings. It is not so much an amount, but a reference to the system of fines that is also used in the Criminal Code. It is a category 4................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I have already indicated when the reaction to the various investigations will come to the Chamber. A number of amendments have been tabled on this point. I would now like to discourage or advise these amendments to be retained, because my letter on the overall package will allow us to make an overall assessment of the measures. I propose that we not now call into question one measure or another on the occasion of the increase in the fine. Mrs Dik-Faber asked about the figures on the maintenance of non-smoking restaurants. The NVWA will soon publish the enforcement figures for 2014. Since 2010, the situation in the hospitality sector has improved considerably. I would point out that in 2010 only 49% of the cafes and nightclubs complied with the smoking ban and that this percentage had risen to 71 in 2013. Soon we'll get the numbers from the NVWA. I will inform the Chamber as soon as possible. Mrs Dik-Faber also asked questions about a licensing system and the other amendments. I would like to add that to my general remark that we could talk about this on the basis of my letter which is still to come. The same applies to the vending machines ban she suggested. There has also been talk of non-smoking schools. As you know, I fully support the call made in the motion. It is very important to prevent young people from starting smoking. The younger you start, the harder it is to quit. This has already been said by several Members. The trend is positive. More and more schools are becoming smoke-free. In 2013, 34% of secondary schools were non-smoking. The Long Fund's school monitor will soon show that this number has increased significantly. We're gonna get the numbers. In any case, I hear positive noises about how my contacts with the Long Fund develop. I am currently talking to the Education Sector Councils, the Funds and other stakeholders to see if we can accelerate that trend. We see that the schools and industry councils are playing an increasingly important role in terms of'smoke-free'. The sector councils have become partners of the Alliance Netherlands Smoke-free! and have committed to the National Prevention Programme via pledges. Since 2014, schools in secondary education have been able to obtain the Healthy School vignette. I hope I have convinced Mrs Faber that non-smoking schools are and remain a very high priority for us. We shall continue to do so in the coming period. Mrs Bruins Slot asked me when the increase in fines would take place. I have already said: quickly with regard to age, on the basis of the smoking ban compliance figures. I really want this compliance to improve and I am committed to full compliance. We will never achieve that ideal world, but you must strive for it. I have already said that we will take the 2015 enforcement figures as zero for the small catering industry, so that we can look very closely at how things are developing. We are about to have a prevention debate. We can therefore talk about what we are all doing in the area of prevention. As the Chamber knows, it is not the system of the state budget to immediately link and confuse income and expenditure. I do not think it is possible to put the revenue from fines into a prevention fund. However, we can continue to discuss, for example on the budget, what we are all doing about prevention and whether further instruments should be developed for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u52	I notice that the Secretary of State is in the process of shifting all the issues surrounding the law to another moment, while it is now about raising the fines within this law. The Secretary of State is a huge supporter of an integral policy of discouragement. What better way than to return the money we raise to the prevention fund by enforcing the Tobacco Act? This money can then be spent, for example, to prevent young people from smoking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u53	We have also agreed with each other how we are shaping the budget and what are the rules on the mixing of revenue and expenditure. Fines are income and the prevention fund is covered by expenditure. We agreed with each other in this Chamber that we do not connect it one-on-one. This is without prejudice to the fact that, when we talk about prevention policy, we can also, of course, talk about the resources that are needed for this purpose and which must then be adequately covered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u54	We are talking about the end of the pipeline, enforcement, but there is also a beginning. I understand the Secretary of State when he says we have a certain system that we can't just cross. Is it a good idea to do some research on the possibilities of doing so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u55	This seems to me to be an issue which the Chamber should discuss with the Minister of Finance, because we are talking about the system of the state budget. In view of the effectiveness of the debate on prevention, I propose that, when we discuss prevention policy and look at all the measures taken, we consider whether additional instruments are needed, including in the financial sense. I'm a little confused about the discussion about the youth monitor at the Trimbos Institute. In an earlier letter I extensively motivated how we will monitor various list problems. I have opted for a more coherent and effective approach in which double numbers are now avoided as far as possible in the case of.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I would point out that, with regard to reliable student studies, good monitoring is carried out among young people. It also looks at non-school youth. This means that we have chosen precisely for the movement not to make all kinds of separate monitors, but a coherent monitor, while, of course, maintaining the insights we need in how smoking among young people, school-based or non-school-based, is going to develop. We started that movement and discussed it with each other. Let us not re-introduce another monitor, when we have brought more coherence to all these monitors. So I assume that you are also concerned with a lasting good and reliable insight for the smoking youth, both school and non-school. We had that insight on the basis of many separate monitors, which we are now looking at more in conjunction with which we can follow the figures more long-term and better. That's really my preference over going back to introducing another separate monitor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u56	Several experts from the field say that the necessary data does not surface, so that the information we received from the old monitor will not come from the current monitor. That is a shame, because we want to understand the smoking behaviour of young people between the ages of 16 and 18.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u57	That would indeed be a shame. The structure of the more coherent monitor is precisely that we bring more coherence to all these figures, which we do not get from all kinds of different monitors in which it is incredibly difficult to craft them together, while maintaining the data we need for youth. But perhaps it would be a good idea if I could explain to you once again, on the basis of the letter that was there and this discussion, what the purpose of that monitor is, so that you can see again whether the statement that a more coherent monitor is better than what we had can be confirmed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u58	At this point, we really keep running around the Chamber building, because we conducted this debate in exactly the same way during the budget debate. I would have thought that since then the Secretary of State had also looked at the argument that we were also raising at that time, namely that the correct data did not come out. The Secretary of State says he's gonna find out again. I find that disappointing, because we want certain data to check whether the policy of the Secretary of State, good policy on this point, works.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u59	I am looking for a way in which we can convince each other, because we both agree that this research must be carried out in such a way that we also have a good understanding of the youth, school or non-school. Our position is that that information with that more coherent monitor is not lost, but that we get that insight, perhaps in a different way. Your statement is that you doubt whether that is the case, because you hear from others, perhaps from the person who did the monitor so far, that is not the case. Then all I can do is check again to see if that's true and try again to show that that monitor is happening. I would point out, moreover, that this monitoring station research, as part of that monitoring, looks at the group of 16 and 18 years of age and that the Trimbos Institute is also investigating non-school young people, among other things. So I think the system we designed contains all the information we need. But I am very willing to try to prove that again in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u60	When?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u61	I think we can do that very quickly. I'm sure we can do that in a week or three.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u62	Three weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u63	I do share the concerns of my colleague from the CDA. I would stress that it is also in your interest that, precisely where you have taken a number of major steps, especially in the case of the age increase, it is good to get the most vulnerable groups in the picture: MBO students, out-of-school youth, who generally smoke more than the groups that are controlled in your new proposal for monitoring. So if you say that you are coming in three weeks' time with another explanation, I call on you to refute, on the contrary, the objections of the parties that have expressed their concerns widely, not only from the party that may have previously provided the monitor. These concerns are shared more widely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u64	There must be no mistake about what insight we need with each other in order to be able to see and share smoking rates among young people, at school and not at school. I do not think there is any difference of opinion between us. What we may disagree on is whether the proposal provides sufficient insight. For my part, I am very prepared to put this into order and also very willing to respond explicitly to the objections. I believe that the question of when the fines will be introduced has already been addressed. I now come to Mrs Rebel's questions. She explicitly asked me about the status of the Tobacco Products Directive (TPD). That Directive was adopted in April 2014. After that there was a lot of discussion to put it all down and write it down. By letter I would like to inform the House of Representatives, as I have just said. It is my intention to submit the bill to the Council of State as soon as possible. It is my intention to present it to the House of Representatives before the summer, although I am not sure whether the discussion in the newspaper and in this Chamber will speed up decision-making. I'm gonna keep doing my best. There was a more specific question from Mrs Rebel as to whether the TPD proposal could also prohibit the sale of shisha pen to young people. The shisha pen is an electronic vaporizer, similar to an e-cigarette, which does not contain nicotine. These fall outside the scope of the Tobacco Products Directive. Only those e-cigarettes containing nicotine have been regulated. We've talked about it before. I do intend to introduce an age limit of 18 years for e-cigarettes into the Tobacco Act. I will implement this amendment with the amendment of the law under the Tobacco Products Directive. We need to take a close look at how this relates to each other, but the directive itself does not apply to the shisha pen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u65	These are products that my party is struggling with, especially because we see that it is a very smart strategy to tempt really young children to smoke. Of course, I understand that this is a difficult product to bring under the directive. You could compare it to some kind of lollipop. We have talked about it before. My party has also looked at the possibilities. We do see the possibility of extending the concept of'smoke goods' to include this in the workings of the Tobacco Act. I propose that the Secretary of State should look again very closely with his officials at the possibilities of banning these products, even without them containing nicotine, under the Tobacco Act for young people under 18 years of age.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u66	We will explicitly include this weighting in the proposals you receive for the implementation of the TPD. Mrs Dijkstra has asked a number of questions about fines. She asked whether the fines were sufficiently dissuasive. We have already talked about this a little bit. The way I see it is that we increase the fines. I want to have the opportunity to conduct policies on the basis of compliance figures. We are going to see whether the recurrence is increasing or not, and on this basis we will adjust the amounts of the fine. I think this can be a very effective approach, but based on the figures as they actually develop.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u67	I explicitly asked the Secretary of State what numbers would have to come out of that monitor. If you can see the state of compliance later, what does the Secretary of State think about the need for improvement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u68	That is a very good question, but it is also a difficult one. Assuming that zero measurement is 60% and we do not see any improvement in the first year, so that compliance in the following year is still 60%, this could lead to an increase in fines. If the maintenance goes from 60% to 70% and we see a continuous line that is constantly improving, I can imagine that we will keep the fines. I do not have a prescription for this and I imagine that we will periodically assess the figures in a debate with this Chamber and, on the basis of this, set the maximum fines.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u69	I continue to find it vague when what action is taken. A zero measurement works in a way polluting because there is now a new category, namely the small catering industry, under the Tobacco Act. That needs to be taken into account. This could pollute the data from the years before.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u70	Sure. That is why I also said that we should do a new zero measurement now that the small catering industry has joined us. This gives us as clear a picture as possible on the starting line. Mr. Van't Wout is right. We will have to distinguish that particular category in order to arrive at a good judgment. Mr Van 't Wout is also right that the penalty rates will not change until there is an AMvB. I have just explained the ways in which I intend to make this AMvB about the fines. I have already gone into compliance. I haven't gotten the most recent enforcement figures from the NVWA yet. They'll be here soon and I'll send them to the House of Representatives by the end of the day. I have already discussed the timetable for implementation. I hope to be able to put this into procedure as soon as possible. I hope to be able to do this before 1 July next. Mrs Gerbrands spoke about the article in De Telegraaf asking whether the e-cigarette is more carcinogenic than the ordinary cigarette. It is very important to keep a close eye on developments regarding the health risks of e-cigarettes. Recently, in a temporary Warenwet decision, I made demands on the safety and quality of the product. With this I want to ensure that the products can be used safely. As little is known about the risks of vapours, I have asked RIVM to investigate this further. In addition, I asked the NVWA's Risk Assessment and Research Programming Office to look at the results and give advice on them. I await the results of the research of the RIVM and the advice of the NVWA. I think I can inform the Chamber about this in the first quarter of 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u71	Then perhaps you could take the effects of the shisha pen with you. There's no tobacco in there, but there's a battery. The article assumes that the battery is carcinogenic. If that is taken away, that problem can be solved equally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u72	In the investigations into electronic cigarettes, whether with nicotine or not, we must indeed look at the substances contained in them. I understand very well that the shisha-pen can help people who want to get rid of smoking. At the same time, we need to look very closely at what is in it to prevent the introduction of harmful substances after all and that we may provoke smoking. That was a bit of the struggle Mrs. Rebel was talking about. I get a lot of messages from people who are wondering why we are making such a big deal about the electronic cigarette, because that cigarette helps them to get rid of smoking. I have a great understanding of that. I think that's how people get off smoking. However, we must also keep an eye on public health and identify the substances contained in it. I can see from Mrs Leijten's gesture that this could also be a step in the right direction to actually smoke. Then, of course, we have to pay full attention. I think we agree on this point. So much for my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u73	I had asked another question about answers to written questions that I asked together with Mr Voordewind. These questions were answered last week. The Secretary of State states that he was not aware that from 2012 CBL will control the deployment of ID scanners, ID readers, ID swipers or whatever they are called. I am surprised that the Secretary of State was not aware of this, because on 7 March 2012, our Minister, in a general discussion on alcohol policy, expressed her appreciation for the use of the supermarket sector on this issue. I asked in my first term whether this no should have just been yes. Maybe this slipped through the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u74	Not as far as I know. There is, of course, a difference between knowing that the industry is committed to this and to what extent it is, and the appreciation you can have for anyone who tries to come up with tools or systems that further strengthen compliance. I am completely neutral in any system. If industry is using systems that can improve compliance, I think that is fantastic. I don't know if companies were doing that together on a large scale when you asked that question. I'm not against them doing that at all. Compliance must be improved, with any system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u75	Of course, it could have been that the Secretary of State himself was not familiar with it, but at least the Ministry was familiar with it. After all, the Minister replied. The Secretary of State then says he doesn't care which system is being used. I think that's a bit of a weird answer, because the government is just funding ID readers, swipers or whatever you want to call them. In a call of 9 October 2014, the specialist center advises entrepreneurs to register quickly because the subsidy pot is running low, so that they get a discount of more than €100 per purchased ID reader. Is the Secretary of State independent, are the Ministry and the government independent or are they secretly, like industry, committed to an ineffective age verification system?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u76	I don't have the illusion that we can do anything secretly. Nor do I have the illusion that we would like to do something secretly. I insist that we have a law that must be respected and enforced. I don't care which system is being used. There may well be all kinds of actions by anyone to promote or strengthen systems, but I try to have as neutral a view as possible from the VWS department.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u77	It is very uncomfortable that, for example, when an investigation into age enforcement is launched, another agency appears to have owned exactly the same age verification system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u78	That seems more like a second-term thing to me. Has the Secretary of State come to the end of his reply?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u79	Yes, Mr President, with the remark that I have just indicated that we are also trying to do as purely as possible procurement procedures that must comply with European directives. We do so in every procurement procedure as best we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u80	I may not have listened carefully, but I have not heard a specific assessment of the amendments to the documents. 9, 10 and 11. It's a general rating, but it's not a specific assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u81	On the basis of the letter I am sending to the Chamber in four weeks' time on the overall package, we can weigh in full what further measures can be taken. I would advise against the amendments at the moment if the proposers did not wish to retain them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u82	I do not think you can accept any amendments if the legislative amendment is put to the vote. Here's what I'm suggesting. The Secretary of State will be presenting his vision in four weeks' time. We shall now stop the debate. We can then reopen the debate in four weeks' time, if there is such a vision, and then we can see if the amendments can support policy or if the Secretary of State accepts them. Then we can vote on the amendment of the law. In that case, the proposers will not retain the amendments, but the Secretary of State will hold on to the legislative amendment proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u83	I consider that an order proposal. I would ask Members to give their opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u84	I graduated from state and government law once. If we allow the amendments to this law to continue, we will really change the essence of the law. Then it is good practice to ask for advice from the Council of State. I wonder whether we will be able to make any progress at this stage, but that is a nuance to Mrs Leijten's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u85	I would now like to ask your opinion on Mrs Leijten's order proposal. If you don't follow that, say so. Then it is up to Mrs Leijten to withdraw or maintain the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u86	For the reasons I have mentioned, I do not support the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u87	No, I think we should just finish this debate now. This is a separate subject, so it's just possible. We'll talk about the rest. Then one can always table an amendment again if it is true that you cannot keep them. As far as I'm concerned, we're just gonna keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u88	I support the VVD in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u89	Support the proposal to conclude this debate now and, if necessary, to review at a later date whether these amendments are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u90	Although I can fully understand Mrs Leijten's proposal, I do, in the end, choose to conclude it now so that at least there is clarity about it. If we have the discussion again in four weeks' time, I would like to return to these important issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u91	I agree with Mr Van 't Wout's words.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u92	After extensive consultation, I note that there is no support for Mrs Leijten's proposal. It is up to her to do what she thinks is right with these amendments. I will look around to the Members to see if there is a need for a second term. I note that this is the case. Is there a need for suspension prior to that second deadline? That is not the case. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Leijten from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u93	Mr. Chairman. When you say "the fines should be higher if you break the Tobacco Act and sell tobacco products to minors or smoke where you are not allowed to smoke," you seem to take a technical measure. The question is, of course, whether a fine is effective in itself. Does that really scare you as much as it is suggested? I think if you're talking about fines, you should also talk about prevention and enforcement. The amendments that we have tabled are anything but untimely. On the contrary, they are very timely. Perhaps the increase in fines, which seems to be a technical exercise, is a distraction to do nothing else. Because I think it's a distraction. It seems very tough, as if people are being tackled, but I predict that it will lead to the hunting down of young people who are punishable if they have alcohol or buy tobacco, and of small entrepreneurs who are not allowed to smoke. You will see that where the big blows are to prevent addiction among young people and in preventing the deadly addiction to smoking, namely when selling, nothing is done. I kind of blame the Secretary of State for that. The Secretary of State says he is not in favour of a single age verification system, but the government does provide funding for one of those age verification systems; more than €100 per age verification system purchased, which has been proven ineffective. I propose by amendment that one age verification system be used by the whole sector without indicating which system it should be. I use good arguments for this: no more competition between systems, we break the delays in the sector itself, it is part of the enforcement policy and it is also part of the penalty policy. I really regret that the Secretary of State does not go into this because he has not yet got his vision in order; he has not had it in order for a very long time. In addition, there is indeed a single age verification system chosen by the government, namely the system that is not effective. I won't rest until that's resolved. I do not think that is possible. I do not think it is possible for the Secretary of State, on the one hand, to have no vision and postpone, postpone, postpone, and, on the other hand, by means of another subsidy and another ministry, put one age verification system firmly into the market, while we know that it is proven ineffective. In four weeks, we'll have the total vision. It's about time. I made the proposal to suspend this bill because, in the end, in such a total vision, the penalty also comes to an end. Anyway, we'll decide on that sooner. I maintain the amendments because I think they are part of this debate. Besides, I'm filing a motion. If we are investigating the maintenance of the sales age, it must be done by an independent party. The procurement procedures may have gone well technically, but the outcome is very uncomfortable. In this case, the independent party is an agency that is now proposing to set up a scientific committee, because it itself sees that there are doubts about independence. This agency is involved on the one hand in an age verification system, so it is biased, and on the other it has close links with the sector to be controlled by the Agency. Indeed, there was a one-to-one client relationship. There could have been a completely different outcome. The procurement rules may well have been followed so that they cannot lead to grounds for exclusion, but we are now faced with the situation that the results of the report will be questioned on all sides. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he likes it. I would like to table a motion on this matter to deal with this for the future. The Secretary of State must then amend the procurement rules, or act in the spirit of the motion if it is adopted, which I hope will be done by ensuring that an indeterminately independent party oversees on our behalf all of us laws that we adopt. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the need for a reliable investigation into the maintenance of the selling age of tobacco;]] [[noting that Bureau Sochter has strong links with the supermarket industry, both in carrying out enforcement investigations and providing age verification systems;]] [[considers that there should be no doubt as to the results of this investigation;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the investigation into the maintenance of the selling age of tobacco is carried out by an independent party,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33738-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u94	Mr. Chairman. I have some double feelings about tonight's discussion. We are dealing with a technical law that should make it possible for an AMvB to come. When's the AMvB coming? I'm very curious to know what term the Secretary of State has in mind. I hope that we will be able to receive them by May, for example. In addition, it is doubtful whether we will increase the maximum fines and, if so, when this will happen. So at the moment I have a lot of questions. I also have an uncomfortable feeling because some of the points that are important to my group have not been raised this evening, I mention the number of tobacco outlets and the reduction of the visibility of tobacco products......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There is no room for that either, since it is a technical law. It will be four weeks before we receive the letter we had hoped to receive in autumn 2014. We will have to wait for that letter. A positive point, I think, is that the campaign for the 100% non-smoking catering industry seems to start really quickly in February. I look forward to it. I had prepared a number of motions. Because of the course of the discussion, I will not submit all of them. However, I would like to make one motion, because it is clearly linked to the 100% non-smoking hotel and catering industry that the Chamber has agreed to and which we are now working on with each other. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the visibility of tobacco products affects the likelihood of smoking or successful cessation of smoking;]] [[Whereas the catering industry is becoming 100% non-smoking;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare legislation to ban cigarette vending machines in the hospitality sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33738-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u95	Mr. Chairman. The CDA supports the law now before us. The law is a fine stick behind the door to deal with hard learners. Smoking is a case where 19,000 people die every year. We can always take measures at the end of the pipeline, as is happening now through enforcement, but it is also good to look at prevention. This also means a good spending of the money. That is why the CDA's proposal to investigate whether, for example, the proceeds of fines could be transferred to a prevention fund. I understand that the Secretary of State says that he can't just admit it in the sense that we're going to and that we really need to take a good look at it. I'd like to give him plenty of space for that, too. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the starting point for breaching the Tobacco Act is not to generate additional revenue for the government;]] [[noting that a comprehensive policy of discouragement requires good investment in preventive measures;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether fines collected can be paid into a prevention fund and inform the Court of Justice of this by 1 July 2015 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Bruins Slot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33738-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u96	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply and his explanation of the follow-up to this legislative amendment. Perhaps I can remove some of the inconvenience felt by Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Leijten about this technical change. This was previously part of a package which included the smoking ban for the small catering industry. We deliberately opted for a cut in that, in which the smoking ban small catering for the summer recess was dealt with. So there was a very small piece left. The smoking ban on small restaurants has indeed been a huge step, which was not supported by all parties here. In a technical sense. I understand we want more. I'm happy to be naming the red elephant by the Secretary of State. I hope that our patience will be rewarded with a clear vision. It will also be an interesting debate, because the coherent package remains a matter of taste. For example, the Secretary of State indicated that he was somewhat surprised at the position of the SP on the small catering industry. There is also something to say about the amazement about the age limit, which D66 always found somewhat difficult. I therefore expect a lively discussion following the vision with which the Secretary of State comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u97	I would like to make a comment. The Secretary of State did it, but now Mrs. Rebel is doing it. She says something about the SP when she doesn't have to and while she just sits by my input. We have indeed not been in favour of bringing the small catering industry under the smoking ban. That is simply because we believe that this is not the most effective measure to prevent young people from starting smoking. It's bullying small businesses. That is why we voted against it. Mrs Rebel also knows that as far as the discouragement of young people is concerned, we are always working together as much as possible. That is also my criticism tonight: do not sit at the end with the fines, but also look at the beginning of the sale. I hope that we can continue to work together in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u98	I know that we have worked well together in this area, especially in the fight against smoking among young people. I just wanted to make it clear that this small technical part was previously part of a somewhat larger legislative amendment, some of which we have already dealt with before the summer recess, especially because there was an interest in it. That's a choice. I do hope that, when we come to the coherent package of measures, we will find each other on the basis of support for those opportunities to combat smoking among young people. I had two motions prepared. I won't file one because I believe the Secretary of State... Oh, the chair goes a little back and forth. That's why I took a look at you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u99	I'm not doing anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u100	Okay, great! It'll do it on its own. I really want to be clear before the summer about the possibilities of banning the e-cigarette under 18 years of age. I challenge the Secretary of State to look, in any way, under the Tobacco Act, albeit in a different way, at the possibilities of banning shisha pens and the like under the age of 18. I am going to table a motion on the smoke monitor, partly on behalf of my colleagues Bruins Slot and Dijkstra. However, I am prepared to hold her until the Secretary of State sends a letter on this matter. With this motion, I would like to state that we are concerned about monitoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u101	Let me get this straight. Are you filing the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u102	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u103	However, you also announce that you are holding the motion. I don't quite understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u104	I'm filing the motion because I think it's important. On the basis of the progress made in this file, we can see if the motion can be held. Another possibility is only much later. That is why I think it is important to keep this motion under control.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u105	The phenomenon that a motion is said to be possible before it is tabled is new to me; hence. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u106	Excuse me. Can I file the motion now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u107	Of course. You're welcome to submit anytime.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u108	Good. That's what I'm gonna do. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that too many young people still start smoking before the 18th year of life and that this significantly increases the risk of health damage and addiction;]] [[noting that the new lifestyle monitoring scheme does not provide reliable figures for an estimate of smoking prevalence among young people aged 16 and over, not for school-based young people and young people in MBO;]] [[considers that understanding of the development of smoking prevalence among young people is of great importance in order to reduce the number of young people smoking;]] [[calls on the government to restore the smoke monitor for young people,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Rebel, Mr Bruins Slot and Mr Pia Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33738-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u109	Mr. Chairman. As regards Mrs Leijten's comment and the question about vision and vision development, I would like to make the following points. We may sometimes differ on whether things are going fast or too slowly, or on exactly what is happening with the view of smoking. I would like to point out to the Chamber that it is difficult to maintain that we have not taken any measures in the past period from a view of the fight against smoking and smoking. I would like to draw attention to the limitation of age limits, on the NIX campaign18, on non-smoking catering, on information in schools, on non-smoking school squares, and on the implementation of the directive, which does not contain small packages, advertising bans, photos on packages, bans on flavoring, the reporting of ingredients and the minimum age for e-cigarette. That is a whole package of measures. Many say that it goes far too far, while others say that it does not go far enough. We're gonna have to live with that together. I insist, however, that we have a very active and proactive policy in the field of smoking control, particularly with regard to young people. That's what I wanted to say. The AMvB will be established as soon as the law is passed. If that is necessary, I will not wait a day after the law has been passed by Parliament. I shall then come to an explanation of the motions. As regards the motion in part No. 12, by Mrs Leijten, I go too far to conclude that there are, in advance, doubts about the results of the investigation at an agency which has strong links with the supermarket sector. In fact, we cause doubts by saying in advance and without results that everything that happens will not be right. I don't think that's a good idea. We have very careful tendering procedures for a reason. Several parties can register for this. They are weighed and examined to see if this leads to good results. I really think it goes too far to assume in advance that the investigation will be nothing. I would therefore like to discourage the motion. I shall then come to the motion on part No. 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u110	I think the Secretary of State is reading a motion other than that I filed. I am not saying that the investigation will not be good, but I am just saying that there should be no doubt. If you have such a clear connection, I think that's undesirable. That is why I am asking for this kind of investigation to be carried out by an absolutely independent party. I would like to hear an opinion from the Secretary of State on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u111	Then we're gonna ask the Secretary of State again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u112	Almost every agency operating in this sector has in the past carried out activities or research for the industry or other parties. Then you would have the definition, in absolute independence, that you never worked for another party. I would like to point out that Mrs Leijten said in the debate that there will be a report in which, in advance, there will be doubts as to whether the results are satisfactory. She literally put it that way. There will then be a motion stating that there should be no doubt about the results of this investigation. I do not have those doubts in advance, so I am going too far to say that this agency would not be able to obtain good results. Of course, we believe that these results should always be good, that it should be a good agency, with honest results. We will look into that in this case too. I'm sticking to my judgment, and I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u113	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u114	Only if you introduce a new element, otherwise it will be a repetition of moves, and you know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u115	I find it quite remarkable that the government, through Mr Van Rijn, said on 22 January that research should not be indeterminately independent. I actually think that is a weakness, because we could continue looking for research institutes, for example universities, where there is not such a close link as with this particular agency. I think it would be better for the Secretary of State to be more aware of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u116	I disagree that I said that investigations should not necessarily be independent. Inquiries must be indeterminately independent. I would point out that there are procedures for weighing that up. The research offices of universities have simply participated in the European tendering procedure. Eventually, it came to a weighting. Now there's a choice for that agency. We are not going to cast doubt on the results of this in advance, because there are sufficient safeguards in place. I shall now turn to the motion for a resolution by Mr Dik-Faber on part No. 13, about the cigarette vending machines. That is a motion that regulates a specific measure rather than an amendment. I have argued in favour of being able to see them in a broader context. I can imagine that the applicant is considering holding the motion until we have the debate on the broad vision of tobacco discouragement policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u117	That statement by the Secretary of State provokes Mrs Dik-Faber to react.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u118	The Secretary of State speaks about the broad vision or the wider context. I think that broad vision is the 100% non-smoking hospitality. We have already made statements on this. That bill was passed by the Second and First Chambers. There's also a court ruling on it. I understand the Secretary of State's request. I'll take that with me, but I'll tell you very clearly what the balancing framework is for me. Maybe that'll change the mind of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u119	If you did not hold that motion, we would have the problem that we have not yet heard an explicit opinion from the Secretary of State. It might be useful if he still gives it to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u120	I would advise against the motion at the moment, but I would suggest that it be retained because we are still going to have that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u121	I think we have already had the discussion on the 100% non-smoking catering industry. That's the trade-off framework. I understand the Secretary of State has a different framework of consideration. I'm going to consider holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u122	Well, at least now there's...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u123	There is now a negative verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u124	A statement by the Secretary of State on his appreciation of the motion. The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u125	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the Bruins Slot motion in part No. 14. I thought we had exchanged the arguments on this issue. I think it's a creative idea. It is always good to see how we can further promote prevention, for example through such a measure. I also pointed out that we have rules on the state budget. We have agreed that we do not mix revenue and expenditure. For this reason, I must advise against the motion, but I assume that on 26 February, when we debate prevention, we will undoubtedly be discussing instruments that will help prevention even further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u126	I'm not saying we're gonna do this right now. I only ask the Secretary of State to look into the possibility of doing so once, because this will also benefit the state treasury.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u127	If I know in advance that filling a possible prevention fund with income from another part of the national budget is contrary to the national budget rules we have agreed on in this house, I can investigate it, but that is not going to help you. Then I come to the motion on part No. 15, over the smoke monitor. I have promised a letter and I can imagine that the applicant is considering holding this motion until the letter on the smoke monitor has been sent to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u128	As long as we don't hear about it, it would be useful if you were to give an explicit opinion on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u129	So I think the motion is premature. I have promised that I will try to prove in a letter that we are gathering the right information. I'd appreciate it if the petitioner would continue the motion. Then we don't have to lure each other to judgment, which may not be necessary at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u130	I was a little quick with my speech. I was right to point out that it is a new way of working. I am a relatively new Member of Parliament, so thank you for that. I've learned something again. I am prepared to take a look at my fellow Members to hold the motion pending the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u131	I don't see any colleagues jumping up furiously.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-22-tweedekamer-10.u132	I propose that we vote next week on the motions and amendments that have been tabled.
