ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u1	I would once again like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u2	Mr. Chairman. This afternoon I would like to talk to you about the spirit of time, because it has changed. When politicians make rules for everyone, I think they should also apply to politicians themselves. Outside the Lower House, many people think that is very logical, within the Chamber a number of people have had to get used to it. When politicians become unemployed, special rules apply to them. Instead of the WW, politicians have the much more generous watch money scheme. When I submitted a bill in 2009 to abolish the Waiting Money Scheme, I got a strange sensation. In the right-wing media I was applauded loudly, but in what is called the progressive media I got a lot of criticism. This was a bad form of effect hunting, wrote one newspaper, and fed mainly prejudices, wrote another newspaper. They both thought I was a populist. And in the Chamber, besides the SP and the Party for Animals, no one actually supported this proposal. I would like to remind the President that at that time politicians could count on six years of waiting time, without even having to apply. Since then, fortunately, the spirit of a new era has also made itself felt in the House of Representatives. The waiting period has been reduced from six years to more than two years, similar to the WW. Our proposal to apply to politicians has been introduced, as well as the need to accept appropriate work. Times change. In any case, I have not heard any more that, as Members of Parliament, we have all done something about the pursuit of impact or have fed prejudice. The main argument for maintaining the special waiting money regime is that politicians are at risk of being expelled and then difficult to get to work. Unfortunately, that applies to more and more people. Think, for example, of a 55-year-old construction worker. Precisely because it is a risky profession, politicians are also well paid. Politicians are often well trained and usually also have a good network. If they can't find a job, then who can? At least I don't think it's the 55-year-old construction worker. Today we are again discussing an adaptation of the Appa, the law governing social security for politicians and administrators. Politicians who have been politicians for ten years can actually retire from their 55th, or at least ten years earlier. They don't have to look for another job. But times have changed. In 2009, this was still common practice among most parties, now the Minister comes forward with the proposal to change this. The period when politicians can actually retire early goes back from ten years to five years. We have a choice when it comes to these kinds of issues. You can defend that politicians should have special social regulations, say the fat self's view, or you can say that rules that are good enough for everyone are good enough for politicians too, say the view of the new era. The Minister is now proposing to halve that period. That sounds like a compromise and I wonder if it is a good compromise between politicians who do and politicians who do not want to abolish that period. It seems that the Minister has said: you know what, we'll only do half of it, a ten-year cut to five years. I think it's better to make a real choice. That is why I have tabled an amendment, a proposal to abolish the actual early retirement for politicians altogether, i.e. a normalization of social security for politicians. We often discuss proposals for changes in social security for politicians in this Chamber. We do this because the government often comes up with proposals to reduce social security. Then people are right to ask: what about you; are you going to change the rules for politicians now? That's an ongoing discussion. It is also often an uncomfortable discussion. I see only one way to put an end to this kind of discussion: politicians will henceforth be subject to the WW, the WIA and the Disease Act, so they will be subject to the same rules as everyone else, by normalising social security for politicians. My own-initiative proposal is still pending. It is also awaiting support. If more political parties are expressing their support today, I am happy to present the initiative legislative proposal again. I am very interested in Mr Veldman's view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u3	I hear Mr Van Raak saying that he wants to apply exactly the same rules to employees, but I do miss the amendment that he is proposing that MPs, mayors and aldermen should also be protected against dismissal. Then where is the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u4	I made a law for that. That's the law. So I'm fine with it. I want all Dutch people to have the same rules and certainties as politicians. However, I fully agree with Mr Veldman on this point. I have tabled an initiative proposal to apply all normal rules to politicians such as the WW, the Disease Act, the WIA. That proposal is still there. If Mr Veldman says that this is a good idea, I will get it out of the closet and we can deal with it here before the recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u5	I do not know exactly what that initiative proposal says, but if I listen to Mr Van Raak in this way and if he wants to apply the same rules, instead of putting confidence in the hands of the electorate, he wants to create a system in which politicians and directors have job protection in the same way as employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u6	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u7	That sounds like an exciting proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u8	Sure. I hope we can discuss that soon. However, the support in the Chamber has so far been limited to the left, and that is not even quite so. But if Mr Veldman wants to think about it, I wholeheartedly support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u9	Mr Van Raak, you will continue or end your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u10	I like it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u11	Mr. Chairman. Last year the Chamber was ready to deal with the austerity of the continued benefit, but then suddenly the reduction of the waiting money was removed from the bill. Of course, the Minister remembers all that. In the meantime, the case has been repaired and repaired. A vision has even appeared. We discussed this at our procedural meeting this morning. We have decided that we will have an extensive exchange of views with the Minister for Foreign Affairs in a general discussion. Then Mr Van Raak's rich ideas can also be presented against the Minister's vision. I want to concentrate on this bill right now. Politicians who resign or are dismissed at the age of 57 are entitled to benefits during the ten years until their retirement. The cabinet wants to limit this continued benefit to a maximum of five years. It is striking that the choice for those five years is not based on empirical evidence, but is the result of... What exactly is the result of this? That is my group's question to this Minister. Can the Minister explain why a period of five years instead of four years or six years or whatever number has been chosen? What ratio is behind that? Why didn't the Minister want other options examined? The proposal we are discussing today is sensitive to the Dutch administration. We have received a lot of letters about this too. I noticed the Minister's sensitivity to signals from the field, bearing in mind the handling of the bill that was just under discussion. He almost embraced those signals. In the present legislative proposal, signals have also come from the field, but the Minister has distanced himself from that. My group is right to think so, because you must want to make a choice. In this respect, we agree with the Minister's line. It was noted, however, that the previous legislative text was very prominent: border austerity reached. I have heard the Minister say this a few times in the media, but I have not found that in the new legislative text. I lost that chapter. Has the cabinet or has the minister changed his mind? Why did that go away? How are we supposed to interpret the new words that are appropriate after this change? On which aspects of the legal status of officials does the Minister leave the door open for further austerity? Why? During the written discussion, Mr Van Raak asked an interesting question about the number of political officials currently receiving continued benefits. These are about 300 people, employed by the Empire, provinces, municipalities and water boards, at least according to the implementing organisations. The administrative bodies do not always have such data available on their own. Of course, that raises a few questions. It seems to me that the Minister will see it coming. That Law shortening duration of continued benefit Appa is implemented fragmentedly, while the Dijkstal Commission considered that this fragmented method of implementation long ago was inefficient and risky. What alternatives does the Minister see to increase efficiency and reduce risks? The data show that the number of politicians using the continued benefit varies between 11% in the municipalities and a higher percentage in the provinces. What would that higher percentage be? That's always nice to know. That's 21%. This is striking, 21% in the provinces and 11% in the municipalities. Would the Minister like to play with this? How does this explain itself? Couldn't he put a little pressure on the case at the IPO? I think it's quite a significant difference. I have another question about the letter of amendment. Can the Minister explain further the amendment of Article 163b? Why have three categories of politicians been chosen to whom the austerity applies and who are or are not covered by the transitional law? I am always happy to ask such questions, because I know that the Minister has come to the Chamber with a number of specialists and that the specialists must also make themselves known. That is why I am asking this detailed question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u12	I think another specialist would like to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u13	There are a lot of specialists here, and sometimes you're a specialist. Mr Schouw initially asked the right question to the Minister as to why they had chosen for five years instead of six, seven, three, two or perhaps zero. What is the view of D66 on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u14	I ask that question because I want to know more about the ratio. The number five doesn't look very wrong to me. A little more support than ten divided by two is five, I'd like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u15	But is there not a more fundamental issue under this choice for the number of years, namely whether there should be a special early retirement pension for politicians or not? Isn't it much more a matter of choice than gradation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u16	Maybe. I have two comments to make on this. I think it would be a good idea to discuss the views of the Minister and the views of the various other groups. This is more of a procedural remark. In addition, we need to find out where we came from. Mr Van Raak himself said that that was ten years. That was, of course, absurd. I know aldermen who, after they had been fifty years old for one day, said, "Addedokie, I will go on, for I am now sitting until my 65stein a fine watch money scheme of the municipality. That's unbelievable right now, but everyone thought that was normal 15 years ago. I would like to say that phasing out is fine. The question for my group is whether you should align it entirely with everyone in society. Mr Veldman made a very sensible point about this in his interruption. The profession of politician is a special profession, without legal protection and all the other things that normal workers can enjoy. We shouldn't put that under the seats or sofas. It's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u17	But you'll have to take another look at my own initiative law. That's all well and good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u18	I got the commercial. I'm definitely gonna look into that and I look forward to the AO in which we can share all that with each other, if that happens before the recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u19	That was indeed clear advertising. It was still lacking that an www-address was provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u20	Mr. Chairman. We are in favour of this bill, which is an elaboration of the input into the debate in June 2013 by my predecessor, Pierre Heijnen. Together with Pieter Litjens, he argued in favour of reducing the extended benefit from ten to five years. The PvdA considers this reduction to be only fair in the context of the normalization of the working conditions of political officials. Over the years, we have made the call of political ministers in phases increasingly sober and reasonable. We have gone from six years to three years and two months and introduced the application requirement. Now we're gonna cut the extended benefit by half. The PvdA is strongly in favour of bringing the waiting money more and more into line with the WW, although the PvdA is also well aware that there will always be differences, given the function of a political minister and the independence it requires. We are therefore very pleased with the vision of the political ministers. This document can be a good starting point for us all to determine again whether we share the vision of the office and how we will shape it in the future. We will certainly come to a separate discussion on this vision. In this context, we would like to pay close attention to the obligation to apply. We have introduced a job application requirement under the waiting money scheme, but we do not have the idea that it is being handled with clarity. We also get signals that the job application obligation is sometimes filled out too quickly and too easily. We would like more clear policy guidance from the Ministry and legal enforcement of the application requirement. In writing, we have already noted that, when the WIA was created, the legal provisions in the event of incapacity for work for workers were changed, but that there was no equivalent adjustment of the provisions for political officials. We would also like this section to be addressed. We read a few things about it in our view, but we hope that the Minister will get on with this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u21	Mr. Chairman. Over the last few years, there has been a step-by-step withdrawal of the waiting money for political ministers. For example, it was decided to introduce the application requirement, the starting date for the continued benefit has been increased and the regular benefit period has been reduced from six to four years in 2010. In 2012, the duration of benefits was further reduced to a maximum of three years and two months. With these adjustments, the provisions have been aligned as much as possible with the provisions available to employees. The VVD has agreed to all these modifications. In 2013, the VVD and the Labour Party, as Mrs Fokke just said, also indicated their intention to adjust the duration of the continued benefit to retirement age and to reduce it from ten to five years. The bill that we're discussing now regulates these adjustments. In addition to the limitation of the duration of benefits, the legislative proposal also proposes that the adjustments to the Unemployment Act be consistent with the period after which each work is regarded as appropriate work. Both elements of the bill are supported by the VVD. This legislative proposal is therefore the final part of bringing provisions for political officials into line where possible and where necessary with what also applies to employees. I say "closing piece," because as far as the VVD is concerned, this is the border. Mr Schouw also said that the Minister spoke about this in the same way in December. Can the Minister also reaffirm what the VVD now indicates, namely that this is the border? A political minister, a mayor, an alderman, a minister or a MP has a special position, because there is no protection against dismissal, as I say to Mr Van Raak. There is no normal contract of employment and it calls for a completely independent position. This special position and the state-law relationship mean that working conditions sometimes have a special form. After all, there is no employee/employer relationship. The way in which the post is completed and its assessment have no legal effect, i.e. no permanent appointment, no periodic increase in salary, no additional periodicity and no award of special remuneration. However, the political office must remain attractive in order to ensure good public administration. These include arrangements that take account of the political risks of the post. A political office has specific characteristics that differ from a job in business or government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u22	This seems to me to be a natural moment for an interruption by Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u23	I would like to congratulate Mr Veldman very warmly, because a lot has happened at the VVD in five years. Five years ago, politicians were not allowed to be affected by any kind of regulation. In the meantime, Mr Veldman is quite right to say that we have achieved a great deal in the last five years and that the arrangements for politicians are getting closer and closer to the arrangements for everyone. I'd say hang in there, keep doing this. However, I hear the VVD say with every change: this is the end, and "no further." Then there's another change and another change. Every time the VVD says no further. Does this mean 'no further' from Mr Veldman the same as the 'no further' in the past? Or is this a new "no further"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u24	Thanks for the compliment. As I have just said, the VVD has supported the austerities that have been introduced in recent years. Together with the Labour Party, the VVD in 2013 called for the continued benefit to be reduced from ten to five years up to the retirement age. That's how we've reached the border. Further austerities do not do justice to the special position of directors and MPs, such as Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u25	We're still going to talk about the Minister's vision. We have a government with the PvdA and the VVD. We have a minister who has sent a document on behalf of the government stating that reintegration should be regulated as much as possible in the future as for normal workers. The same applies to incapacity for work and pensions. In the Minister's view, there are all kinds of steps towards further standardisation. Doesn't the VVD agree with that vision?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u26	That is the view that we shall be discussing. As I read the vision, there are a few things in particular that need to be adapted in terms of technology. I also have a question for the Minister about fund financing of pensions. However, there are no longer any major steps in this direction which will lead to a loss of legal status as we are about to adopt it with this legislative proposal. As far as the VVD is concerned, there is therefore no question of further austerity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u27	Mr Veldman continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u28	Mr Van Raak already mentioned it: the recent comprehensive vision on the legal status of political ministers also shows that this is not necessary and not desirable. That's why that VVD is pulling that line. The developments in pay, reintegration obligations and pension have all been brought into line with employees. There are still a few things that still need to be studied, including, I have just mentioned, the way in which political pensions are financed. The Minister is still studying fund financing and I would like to ask the Minister how far he is with this. The integrated vision also provides a nice outline of developments in the legal position of political ministers. The vision perfectly outlines how and why there have been adjustments in the past period and at the same time shows that further austerity is not necessary. As I have just said, this legislative proposal is the final piece of the reform of that legal position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u29	Thank you very much. I have found that we have come to the end of the first-term contribution from the Chamber. I have also found that the Minister can reply immediately. I would like to give him the opportunity to do so. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u30	Mr. Chairman. The legal status of politicians is always a subject that can attract a great deal of interest. That is also because, on the one hand, in a democracy, the politician, the one who ultimately decides on the public issue, holds the highest office. On the other hand, politicians are sometimes spoken of in terms of: you can hope that your daughter does not come home with a politician. Both feelings exist. On the one hand, it is a very high office and on the other hand, there are all kinds of other images that I think are wrong, and I have also worked for a very long time in other sectors. I have been asked for an integral vision of the position of political ministers. I understand that it was decided this morning to hold a separate debate on this subject. Partly for this reason, I would like to try to focus the answer now on the proposal before us today. Then, on another occasion, we can discuss Mr Van Raak's more philosophical approach, where I say that is no secret, and it is also in the view that it is true that the position of a politician is essentially different. This is not only because there is no protection against dismissals. One can be sent home at any time, for example tonight, but also because there are no super-legal other fees. Most employers, of course, still have agreements in their collective agreements or otherwise. If you're working at the Shell and you're a few years before your retirement, it won't happen soon that they say: we're closing this unit now, go into welfare or go bake burgers. Most of the time, an arrangement is made over-statutory. It's different with politicians. We will have that fundamental discussion at a later date. The draft law before us concerns political ministers. Maybe it's okay to name who they all are. These are not only MPs, but also mayors, aldermen and people at water boards and in provinces. So these aren't all people who earn high incomes, because in a small municipality you don't make that much as alderman. So we are also talking in part about very ordinary middle incomes, which this also refers to. The bill does two things. On the one hand, it reduces the duration of the so-called continued benefit, which indeed referred to Mr Schouw, I believe, in the past fifteen years. If someone had been alderman for ten years, he could live off the guard money at 50, when he didn't come back as alderman for 15 years. That cost has already been reduced to ten years and we are now taking it back to five years. A motion from the Labour Party and the VVD, which has been widely supported here, is therefore being carried out. In the previous debate earlier this afternoon, I noticed that this does not in itself mean that the Chamber is still in favour of it, but this is where I think it is. Mr Schouw asked for a further coloring. The duration is reduced to five years, but he asked if I could color in why it's exactly five years. Of course, it always remains somewhat arbitrary. For people who step out of politics in the middle of their career, because the college falls or because they are no longer on the list of their party, a benefit of up to three years applies. It is now a question of continuing benefits for people who have their pension in sight. That view is now set at a maximum of five years. That is, in fact, only a year and ten months longer than anyone who leaves politics in the middle of his career. The person has a maximum benefit of three years and two months. So it's just a little longer, and that does justice to the fact that someone has served the public cause for more than ten years and can't go back. His benefit is one year and ten months longer than the regular benefit in the view of the pension. The second change is that the period during which one only has to accept work at the same level as the benefit is reduced from one year to six months. This means, Mr President, that if you do not return to the list, you will be able to apply for six months on a high-level seat, but after that it will be just a bake of hamburgers, also for a chairman of the House of Representatives. I get the impression that there is broad support for this proposal, although some would like to go further, for example Mr Van Raak. The amendment in which he proposes to get rid of this continued benefit is something I do not recommend with reference to the reasons I have just given. I look forward to further discussion on the position of political ministers. That discussion is based on a note that has been widely discussed in the field, as you know. Aldermen, delegates and directors of water boards sometimes have the same hesitation as other politicians: is it now appreciated that I am serving the public cause or should I be ashamed of it? They attach great importance to the intrusive discussion of our vision of their position at a rich level. Mr Schouw and Mr Veldman asked whether I should like to say that some of the limits have been reached on the abolition of the position of political ministers. I've talked about that before. I'm not taking back anything I said about that before. At the request of the Chamber, I have specified this in an overall view of political ministers. I've written that down more sophisticatedly. I understand that we will be discussing this with each other shortly. I'd like to stick to that for now. On the specific point of the extended benefit, I do not intend to change it again. I have already said to Mr Schouw that it is always a bit arbitrary whether you allow a benefit to last two months or less. It is my intention to set the duration to five years. I also believe that it should remain so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u31	Because the VNG is also watching and listening, I want to be clear about the following. I assume that, after this austerity, the cabinet does not intend to come up with new initiatives on the issue of austerity. That's in line with previous statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u32	That's right. This is also the result of the vision of political ministers. We shall come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u33	Limitation, austerity, reduction... If the government or a party like D66 proposes to limit the WW, they call it normalization. I would also like to choose here to standardise the position of politicians. We are going to talk about the Minister's broad vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u34	Sure, but not now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u35	However, the Minister has also indicated that this change is the last in his mind. When I read the vision, I see three proposals in embryonic forms for further standardisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u36	That is why I have just said that there will be no further proposals specifically on this point. For the rest, I have referred to the view on which we will be discussing the text on the table at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u37	I can see Mr Veldman coming to the interrupting microphone. I see here some cracks that make it draft.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u38	There is talk of normalizing industrial relations. With all due respect, even for those present here: you do not have a normal employment relationship. It may happen that tomorrow we are going to hold elections. Then it can happen that people at the SP say: we have had a philosopher in the group for a very long time and after the elections we want a sociologist. That's when it happens. That does not mean at all that the philosopher has not worked properly or that a file has been created. Those are all parts of normal industrial relations. It may also be that the results of the elections are suddenly very different. This really leads to a different position. That is why we have written a special, comprehensive view on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u39	A motion of censure has sometimes been adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u40	Mr Schouw has just asked whether the cabinet is going to come forward with further proposals, including on other points. I heard the Minister answer his question: no, the cabinet does not intend to do that. Now that he answers a question from Mr Van Raak, it seems that the Minister is saying something else. That is why I want to be clear about this. Does the Minister think we've reached the border? So there are no further proposals for austerity? Or does the Minister still have some ideas?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u41	Now I'm tempted to discuss that note in detail. I should now like to invite Mr Van Raak to say in what passages he has read something about a possible intention to achieve further austerity. Before you know it, we'll be here all the way to the general meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u42	I'm going to follow this very closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u43	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u44	If it's absolutely limited to the main line, I'll allow it, but I'm gonna keep an eye on it. I call Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u45	I read in the document: in future, the obligation to apply for employment and reintegration must be designed as much as possible on the basis of the workers' scheme. It says: This will in future be based on the benefits and reintegration systems applicable to employees under the WIA. The same goes for pension provisions. These are points 3, 4 and 6 under heading 4.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u46	Mr Van Raak mentioned the obligation to apply. That is what I was talking about just now, and that is part of the proposal that is now before us. The length of the period in which one only has to apply at one's own level has been reduced to the same as in the market. So this is actually implementing what is in this note. As far as the other points raised by Mr Van Raak are concerned, it is more about implementation and specific application of a number of rules than about austerity as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u47	I have just complimented Mr Veldman. I'm also complimenting the Minister. I warmly welcome this dualism.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u48	I do not know whether I should be pleased with the compliment, but I would nevertheless like to thank Mr Van Raak for that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u49	I'll leave the appreciation to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u50	Yes. A few specific questions have been asked. For example, Mr Schouw asked a question about the fragmentation in the implementation of the Appa. We are working on the new procurement of the Appa, where the Empire, the provinces and the waterboards get one performer. We now hold regular consultations with the performers and evaluate the current working methods. We also look at the implementation of the Appa. So that's what we're working on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u51	The Minister says that we are working on it. As far as I can remember, it's been going on for ten years. So the classic question applies here, when the Chamber is going to receive something about it. When will the Chamber receive anything on that opinion from the Dijkstal Commission? Does that bring together and lead to greater efficiency? Will the House be able to see anything about this before the budget is discussed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u52	That seems like a very reasonable moment. I will therefore admit that I will at least inform the Court of Auditors of the state of play before the budget is discussed. Because specialists have come along, who are grateful for their attention, they have been asked which groups are covered by the transitional law. The bill has no impact on the benefits already paid. At the time of entry into force, ministers who meet the old reference requirements at the time of their next resignation, i.e. age requirements and employment requirements, retain their original entitlement to continued benefits. I therefore also mention the employment requirement, because for a person who is only employed for one month, the whole scheme does not apply. This initial claim is maintained even if it is reappointed in the same function in the same administrative body. If we did not do so, we would have a very negative incentive, for example, to adopt another portfolio in the same college. But indeed, you do not escape the fact that there is no such guarantee in the case of appointment to another position, or in the case of appointment to another administrative body. However, if one already met the referee requirements at the time one went to another position, that claim is retained. Then one does not lose it by accepting a new function. So suppose someone is within five years of the pension and has worked long enough to claim the continued benefit. Suppose he decides to serve as an alderman for a while after all. He won't lose his claim then. Mr Veldman asked when a position on fund financing Appa could be expected. The short answer to this is that the legislative proposal on this issue will be submitted in autumn 2015. There was another question from Mr Schouw. He asked me to give a reflection on the fact that there were still more people using the continued benefit in the provinces than in the municipalities. It's hard to give a conclusive explanation for that. It may be that the people who were in the past on the day-to-day administration were on average somewhat older than in the municipalities. I think you should take another look at that age-adjusted. You should see if it's an administrative layer where on average some older people have been in the past. That, however, continues to be a blow to it. Apparently that's the case. I thought I answered all the questions with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u53	I don't see any pissed-off members. That must be the case. I'm just taking stock of whether there's a need for a second term. I see that this is not the case. This brings to an end the deliberations on this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-12.u54	No motions have been tabled. However, an amendment has been tabled. The amendment and the bill will be voted on next week.
