ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Saudi Arabia is about to decapitate over 50 people. A mass execution that unfortunately fits in with the image of the country. Saudi Arabia is the world's death penalty champion. Since 1985, 2.208 people have been killed by the government in this country. Among the executed there are young people under 18 and disabled people. Saudi Arabia is on course this year to exceed the 1995 record when 192 decapitations and other executions took place. I ask the Minister whether it is true that some of those sentenced to death were convicted on the basis of testimonies obtained by torture. Is it true that some of them are underage? Is it true that some of them are activists? What is the government's reaction to this? In the debate on Islamic State, it is often said that the Islamic State does not exist, but it does exist and it is called Saudi Arabia. I'll just give you some examples. Poet Ashraf Fayad was sentenced to death by a Sharia court for his poetry. Blogger Badawi was sentenced to 1,000 canings for his opinion. A teenager was crucified because he demonstrated for democracy. And I'm not even talking about a law that makes different thinking criminal, or about the war crimes committed by Saudi Arabia in Yemen. What has the cabinet actually done with my and Mr Van Bommel's motion to make more and more visible use of human rights issues in Saudi Arabia? What impact do these developments have on relations with Saudi Arabia? Does the Minister, like me, want an arms embargo? Or will it continue to support this regime unconditionally?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank Mr Sjoerdsma, on behalf of my colleague in the Foreign Affairs Committee, who I believe is in Brussels at the moment. It goes without saying that Mr Sjoerdsma is certainly not the only one who is very concerned about this. The same applies to the news of this alleged execution of the sentence. It also goes without saying that the cabinet, together with the Chamber, is committed to the worldwide abolition of the death penalty. This is done bilaterally in all kinds of contacts in the countries concerned, but also, of course, multilaterally through the EU and the UN. The Netherlands is currently trying to determine the exact state of affairs in Saudi Arabia. We are looking into this, both in the country itself and through contacts with, for example, EU partners and the United States. We are in contact with the Saudi authorities through the Saudi Arabia Embassy in The Hague, but also through our embassy there. The Dutch concerns are being transferred. The problem is that at the moment we have no more information than what Mr Sjoerdsma mentioned. So there is nothing I can confirm on this point. I'm so sorry. Mr Sjoerdsma referred to testimonies obtained by torture. I can't confirm that. But, once again, we are also very concerned about it and we are in contact with the authorities there. My colleague was asked what he did in connection with previous debates with the Chamber on this matter. In my view, the Chamber also discussed Saudi Arabia extensively during the discussion of the State Department's budget. At that time, the Foreign Minister also indicated that he had, for example, put an extra man/woman in the post to respond to the concerns that exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-4.u3	I thank the Minister for her reply. It states that it goes without saying that the cabinet shares the concerns and that it is clear that the cabinet is fighting against this death penalty and is also fighting against it in a general sense. That's good, of course. What is not obvious, however, is that the cabinet does not really change anything in relation to Saudi Arabia. When does this cabinet get to the point that it says: now Saudi Arabia is going over the line? It's not cluster bombs thrown out in Yemen. It's not a humanitarian blockade in Yemen. It is not: blocking an investigation into war crimes in Yemen. It's not crucifixion. It's not a massive death penalty. It is not: financial support to Islamic State. I ask this Minister: when does Saudi Arabia's behaviour have any consequences for our relationship with that country? And why does the government not want to support a European arms embargo as long as that country commits crimes in Yemen? I'll ask the Minister again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-4.u4	We all know very well what the criteria are for arms supplies. This is also being done within the EU. The Netherlands strictly adheres to this. If there is reason for us to stop certain deliveries from going ahead, then we will not hesitate. I am not talking about this personally, but in particular the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation and so is the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Saudi Arabia is, of course, a country with which we must be extremely careful and careful, also because we must remain in dialogue. That is what the Foreign Minister has often said. We must continue to engage with each other, including within the framework of the countries that act in the fight against ISIS, for example. But we don't turn our hearts into a murder pit. I have said before, and also about other countries, that you do not have to keep each other dead in order to treat each other critically. You can also stay in conversation with each other. From what was said earlier by the Foreign Minister during the budget debate on 19 November, the Chamber has been able to see that the government is extremely critical of Saudi Arabia. Mr Kamp's visit has also been used to conduct the discussion and dialogue on human rights and to express concerns about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-4.u5	I'm afraid I can't reach that conclusion. Nor am I reassured by the words of this Minister. We must approach this country "carefully and carefully," she says. No, there is a motion from this Chamber which states that we need to make more and more visible calls to Saudi Arabia. That is a direct contradiction to what this minister says. The Minister also says: we must not turn our hearts into a murder pit. Absolutely, but I also note that Minister Koenders has given me 340 press releases over the last 365 days, and that none of them was about Saudi Arabia. So there hasn't been that "more" and "more visible." So I ask the Minister: when are we going to see that? When are we going to see the action and the words towards Saudi Arabia? When will we see a cabinet that not only says 'yes, we have those concerns' and 'yes, we speak out in the back rooms', but also 'we are going to do this publicly and we are going to take the measures that suit what Saudi Arabia is doing'?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-4.u6	I didn't get those 340 press releases, so I can't talk about that. However, with "careful" and "careful" I was mainly referring to the fact that you do not have to take everything for granted and so you have to be clear about the opinion of the Dutch cabinet and of the Netherlands on certain violations of human rights and the concerns that live here. In any case, Mr Sjoerdsma and I agree on'more' and 'visible'. We need to be clear about what we stand for, and we need to be clear about this in the contacts we have with Saudi Arabia. I don't think the cabinet will leave this at any time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mr Sjoerdsma is, of course, quite right. Saudi Arabia has had the most executions in the last 20 years and there are 50 decapitations on the roll. These are shocking stories, aren't they? Then we shouldn't fall back on business as usual, should we? That is why I am asking this Minister if we can at least stop the trade delegations to Saudi Arabia for the time being. That would indeed be a sign. It does not matter what Saudi Arabia does and how many human rights violations it is responsible for. Religious freedom is also under strong pressure in Saudi Arabia. Let us give one signal: for the time being, no trade delegations facilitated by this cabinet. I'd like to get a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-4.u8	I am not aware of any forthcoming trade delegation, but I am aware of recent visits. I have also just indicated that during these visits there will be no failure to discuss with the authorities on the ground the concerns that rightly live here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-4.u9	I'll try again, again and again. There is once again a concrete situation in which Saudi Arabia is showing itself on its worst side. I hear from the Minister nothing but 'we are still informing us about exactly what is going on'. Let's assume for a moment that the messages are true. Will there now be concrete action by the Dutch Government towards Saudi Arabia in response to this incident, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-4.u10	I have just made it very clear that the Netherlands is trying to find out exactly what is going on and what is the exact state of affairs. If we have obtained more information on this in connection with the inquiry that is being carried out, I will not fail to inform the Chamber further. I say that on behalf of my colleague in the Foreign Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-4.u11	We also had a detailed exchange of views with the Minister for Foreign Affairs during the budget debate on foreign affairs. I agree with the questions put by Mr Sjoerdsma on this point, in particular the lack of decisiveness on this point. How many times has the Saudi ambassador been summoned since all these beheadings took place? For remember that Saudi Arabia has more decapitations in its name than IS. If a Dutch diplomat is abused in Russia, the Russian ambassador is immediately summoned. How many times has the Saudi ambassador been summoned?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-4.u12	I'm sorry, this is an answer I have to stay guilty of. I'll check and let the Room know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-4.u13	We are now satisfied with that commitment. Thank you for coming to the Chamber and for giving me answers.
