ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u1	Madam President. At the end of last week, it was announced that NRC journalist Marcel Haenen found out that a mole had been active in the National Police for years. He's a detective who sold classified intelligence to major drug organizations in Brabant with high frequency in East Brabant. It's a very serious situation. I understand that he has had access to the ICT system and that he has obtained confidential information about major criminal cases from it. Police and the Public Prosecutor's Office have discussed the biggest scandal since the IRT affair in recent days. This is very serious. It may lead to security risks for police and justice personnel. It is also serious because it is in Brabant that directors are threatened and are in danger of being intertwined with the superworld and the underworld. This undermines the rule of law and undermines citizens' trust in justice and government. This case is still under investigation, but the possible consequences are great. There is therefore a need for clarification. How did this happen? What are the consequences? Are there more moles? That's what the reporter's referring to. Is the Minister doing enough to prevent infiltration in the future? How is it possible that lawyers have known for months that there was a mole in the article, but that no immediate action has been taken? There's only been an intervention two weeks ago. Is there any ongoing screening of detectives who have access to important information in important places? How can a detective have access to files of all major criminal cases in the Netherlands, as the NRC states? Is there sufficiently selective consideration of access to crucial information? To what extent, for example, did this put people, witnesses or infiltrators at risk? It can be dangerous for people who do important work in the field. Are those risks obvious to policemen who fight for our safety every day?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is right and understandable that Mr Segers should speak of a serious matter here. The integrity of the police should be beyond doubt. Policemen must be able to trust each other and society must be able to trust policemen. It is shocking that this confidence has been damaged by this person. Unfortunately, I have to say that among the 65,000 police officers there are also rotten apples. It is not the first time, as the Chamber knows, that we have seen it. I'll give you the numbers. In 2014, eleven police officers were unconditionally dismissed and eleven police officers were suspended for integrity violations. In general, reports of integrity violations were reported in 2012 against 1,347 police officers. Fortunately, this number is falling, because in 2014 this number was almost 1,200. I would like to mention that 61% of these cases do not contain a breach of standards. Measures have been taken in all other cases. We know that this kind of people, moles, are at risk in the National Police. It is, of course, up to the National Police to ensure, on the basis of screening or security investigations, that people on vulnerable positions meet the highest integrity requirements. The Public Prosecutor's Office and the police are currently making every effort to identify the damage and to see how the risk that has now been incurred can be reduced in the future, if not prevented. Mr Segers was right to ask how this could have happened and whether there were errors in accessing the information systems. Mr Segers' questions will be included. In the interests of the investigation, I cannot address the specific questions. I am sorry for Mr Segers because I know how much he would like that answer. As soon as I have a complete picture of the issue and in so far as this can and may be reported to the Chamber, I will inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u3	This is an eye-catching case, but the Minister points out that last year there have been 1,200 integrity investigations or issues surrounding integrity. That's a huge number. Fortunately it turns out to be mostly a false alarm, but still it is a huge amount. Then the demand for screening is all the more pressing, but then it is also about personal integrity, about morality. Hence the question of whether there is sufficient, lasting, ethical education, even after the training. Because if you're in such an important place and have access to important information, then it's important that you handle it properly. I would like to know if there are any particular concerns as a result of this case about dealing with drug nuisance in Brabant. Is that an investigation? Is that gonna cause any damage? And can we expect setbacks as a result of this mole? I understand the Minister can't say anything about this case. He says he's gonna investigate that further. I understand that, but investigative journalist Haenen has indicated that he has reason to believe that there are more moles active in detectives, so that case could be much bigger. That seems to me to be a very shocking signal for the Minister. What action has he taken in response to that signal in the news report?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u4	I'm not aware that there would be science in the National Police of more moles. I trust that appropriate measures will be taken at the time when they have that knowledge. It's a fact that people like this could be in the National Police. It's an organization of 65,000 people. That's a huge organization. On this kind of horrible issues and crimes, you must also ask yourself whether the person concerned has not put his own colleagues at risk, such as infiltrators. These are questions that need to be asked and answered through police investigations in the interests of criminal investigation, insofar as they can be answered. Then a question was asked about screening. Maybe it's a good thing I'm going to sum it up for a little while. An applicant will be examined extensively. All applicants must undergo a reliability and suitability check. How extensive that is depends on the level of risk and confidentiality of the environment in which the person comes to work. It is, of course, being considered whether someone has previously come into contact with the police and the justice system. All police systems are also checked. Data is even requested from the Credit Registration Office. As I have just said, when it comes to a trust function, which is a level higher, where really sensitive or very sensitive information is also available, then he will have to undergo a safety investigation. This is how integrity is handled. In the training, at the Police Academy, of course, attention is paid to integrity, as it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u5	Does this ethical education take place not only during but also after training? If one is in office and has access to important information, then it comes down to integrity, on personal morality. Is there any permanent work to be done on this? My final question is: when can we expect that investigation? When will we get a closer look at the investigation that is now under way? When's that gonna come out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u6	As soon as I have more information on this issue, I will also involve the ongoing education of police officers in the field of integrity. I don't have that answer ready right now. When that investigation comes, I don't know. That really depends on what is being determined. All the information I can give and which is not in the interest of this case or of other investigations, I will, of course, give to the Chamber as soon as I can. I can't call a deadline because I don't know when the investigation of the D.A. and the police has come this far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u7	Following the abolition of the Synthetic Drugs Unit in Brabant, the Chamber called for the fight against drug crime after all these drug wars, dumping and undermining mayors. Then the Minister called in a task force. My question is: what does this blow mean for the police and the work of that task force?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u8	I cannot answer that question. That will be understood by Mr Oskam, given his own experience in the country of investigation, because I will then have to provide information from criminal investigations. I can and will not do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u9	I have two points. Mr Segers has asked what happens in the training of integrity. Integrity is the backbone of the police organization. What is the Minister going to do to ensure that, precisely now because of the reorganisation, integrity remains on the agenda of the police organisation? How does he keep making sure that this kind of slippage doesn't happen until the criminal circuit? My final question is whether the Minister will include in that investigation the effect on the dismantling of criminal gangs. Has this mole had any influence on tackling organized crime?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u10	Two questions from Mr Marcouch. To the first question I can answer that I will inform the Chamber how this continued attention to integrity has been shaped and whether it has been designed. I don't know yet. I note, however, that we should not expect too much of that. We must expect a great deal of it, but we will still not be able to rule out the possibility in that very large organisation of 65,000 people that someone will give in to the pressure of the big money in this way. Mr Marcouch asks about the effects on the research, but I cannot answer that question because I do not know what I can and can say about it. That's under investigation right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u11	As soon as more information becomes available, the Minister will inform the Chamber, as he has promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u12	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-2.u13	I thank the Minister for his answers. The following question is also put to him.
