ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. Ten years ago, there was a major art heist in Hoorn. The Westfries Museum had to miss 24 paintings and 70 silverworks. Yesterday, the newspaper said that that collection is currently in Ukraine. The art appears to be in the hands of an extreme right-wing Ukrainian militia. These neo-Nazis have had the guts to offer the artworks in their possession to the Dutch embassy for sale. It shouldn't get any worse! The good news is that we know where the artworks are; they've been traced and we can find them. The bad news is that these Ukrainian barbarians have no idea what they have in their hands, how they have to deal with it and what these works of art are worth. That brings me to the following questions. Can the Minister confirm that this art collection is located in Ukraine and is owned by a militia associated with the Ukrainian Government? Ukraine is a friendly country. Is it true that this art heist involves the secret service and corrupt top politicians of Ukraine? What is the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs doing to get these works back to the Netherlands? President Poroshenko has recently been visiting. There have been high-level contacts. We have heard that this issue has also been raised. What was the reaction of the President and the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Van Bommel for his questions on, indeed, a very sad matter. The Westfries Museum had to miss a part of its art collection ten years ago; that was a massive veining. There are reports now of where that collection might be. I should like briefly to inform the Chamber of the facts as we know them. On July 9th of this year a call came in to the Dutch embassy in Kiev from a man who said he knew more about the stolen Dutch collection from the Westfries Museum. There's a police liaison stationed at the embassy. They immediately contacted the art and antiques coordinator of the National Police. It confirmed that the collection that was discussed may have come from the burglary in 2005. The coordinator put the liaison in touch with the leader of the investigation that was then carried out by the North Holland-North police region. It was also decided to have an informative conversation at the embassy with the people who said to know more about this art collection. They have been invited to a meeting. Noord-Holland-Noord police have decided with the director of the Westfries Museum that the deployment of that conversation should be the recovery of the collection and therefore not the detection. It was about getting the collection back into safe hands. I heard Mr Van Bommel express that wish. The Westfries Museum has asked an experienced art expert, who is also a negotiator, for this and has gone to work. On September 7th, the director of the Westfries Museum reported to the Dutch ambassador in Kiev that the initial optimism about the possibility of recovering the art had unfortunately cooled; there was an impasse. Requested to raise the case with the Ukrainian authorities. On 9 September, my colleague Mr Koenders had a discussion with the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Mr Klimkin, in which this was mentioned. When he returned to Kiev, Mr Klimkin immediately started working. The Ministry of Interior in Ukraine has launched an investigation based on the information that was known. On November 26th we are talking about a few weeks later President Poroshenko was in the Netherlands and he had a conversation with our Prime Minister. In that conversation, too, this matter was discussed, in terms of: it saddens us that we have not yet returned the paintings, the Westfries Museum has been committed to this, we have been informed that the investigation is ongoing and that it is being addressed by the Ukrainian authorities with decisiveness. That is the facts of the situation as it is today. So there has been a high level of political dialogue with the Ukrainian authorities, who have also promised to cooperate fully. We have no reason to doubt that cooperation. The investigation runs there, but that is without prejudice to the fact that the paintings are not yet back in the place where they belong, namely in the safe hands of the Westfries Museum.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-2.u3	This is a bit of a surprise, isn't it? Apparently, people who claim to have a work of art looted in the Netherlands at the Dutch embassy can come and talk in a room without obligation, get a free guide to leave the building again and then deliver nothing, while the Dutch embassy, the Dutch government, sits back. How is it that the Ukrainian authorities have not been asked to initiate an investigation at the same time? For the director of the museum, this detection may not be a priority, but the Dutch government will certainly have to do so. Why wasn't priority asked at the same time by the Ukrainian authorities to track down these people and to get the works of art back? Why didn't the Ukrainian authorities themselves give this priority right away? Is this perhaps due to the fact that the Museum Director has also found that there is an involvement of corrupt politicians in Ukraine, a country with which the Netherlands wants to conclude an association agreement through the European Union, a country that we thought had equal standards in terms of the rule of law, democracy and so on? In practice, therefore, that does not seem to be the case at all. What is the Minister's response to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-2.u4	Let us first of all let the facts be the facts. On July 9th, a call came from a man who said he had more information about this painting collection. It has not been established, and that is not the message given, that he and the other person would be in possession of that collection. Let's establish that for a moment. Then, of course, along the usual lines, contact was made with the research leader of then, the North Holland-North police, and with the director of the museum. In consultation, it has been decided to follow this route. It's not unusual for me to do that, either. That has more to do with the desire to get the collection in safe hands than with anything else. I hear Mr Van Bommel is very concerned about how to proceed with the search. I can also tell from his words that he is very concerned that we have not lost any time. This course of research has always been followed in close consultation. It is extremely regrettable that the initial optimism was not immediately converted into the return of the paintings.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-2.u5	I shall conclude with an observation. I find this extremely naive of both the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Embassy in Kiev. Anyone who's ever been to Ukraine knows that when a call comes from someone who says "I want to talk about these artworks," that person doesn't come up with advice on how to maintain those paintings. Then he comes to talk about ransom, then he comes to talk about how these paintings could come back in Dutch possession. When it was discovered on the spot, of course, we should have acted immediately. That didn't happen. It is true that precious time has been lost. I ask the Minister what, according to the Dutch Government, is the perspective. Will the Ukrainian government, with which the ties are so good, ensure that these works of art come back? Mind you, these extreme right-wing militias are acting on behalf of the government of Ukraine. They are the armed arm of the Ukrainian government against the rebels. If that government still controls these people, it can also demand that these works of art be returned to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-2.u6	I would like to put aside the observations made by Mr Van Bommel on how Ukrainian authorities might or might not be involved in this. I have outlined the facts as we know them. Once again, the Ukrainian authorities have been working on the police investigation. In close consultation with the Westfries Museum and the research director, a route has been followed that is really not unusual in this type of business and that was completely focused on getting the paintings back as safely as possible. That's a choice that's been made. That is, once again, done in conjunction. The Netherlands, as it has done in recent weeks, will, of course, remain in contact with the Ukrainian authorities to ensure that the investigation is successful. We hope the paintings can come back. We are doing everything we can to ensure that this happens as quickly and as well as possible. With Mr Van Bommel we want to see these paintings very quickly in the Westfries Museum.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-2.u7	I think Mr Van Bommel has rightly made a big point about the recovery of the paintings. I also ask the Minister what the cabinet is doing to prevent these paintings from being sold to others. Is there a European APB? Has it been warned that these paintings might be on the black market? Can the Minister clarify such matters?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-2.u8	As far as I have information on it, information has come about the possibility that the paintings would be resold throughout the process, in which, of course, an art expert has been involved. As far as I know, the Ukrainian authorities have taken all the measures that are now within their reach to prevent this. I will certainly be happy to discuss further whether there might be more possible in the light of the Ukrainian authorities' intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-2.u9	The person she's offering now is just known by name and by name. Is it really weird now to ask the Ukrainian authorities to just grab that guy in his collar because he's a suspect? He himself states that he has the paintings and offers them for sale. It seems simple to me: to get into his collar and get to work with it. You don't need a complicated investigation for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-2.u10	We, assisted by international experts, have transferred all information to the Ukrainian authorities. That's usually how it goes when you work together in the field of justice. So the information we had was given to them. On that basis, they are taking action. Again, the people who reported to the embassy said they had information. That was followed up further. It is now up to us to encourage the Ukrainian authorities, where necessary, to carry out the investigation. They do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-tweedekamer-2.u11	Thank you for your answers. Thank you for coming to the Chamber and for replacing your colleague.
