ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the reply by the applicants in the first term, and possibly also by the second term of the Chamber. I would like to welcome all those present, including the people in the public gallery. I would also like to welcome the people who are following this debate in a different way. In particular, I would like to welcome the two initiators, Mrs Gesthuizen and Mr Van Oosten. I would also like to welcome their support, namely Mr Jasper Boon and Mrs Christel Wiskerke. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice, who is here today as an advisor to the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Gesthuizen for her first-term reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. You will not be surprised that we are very happy to be able to defend our own initiative proposal from this point on. We are happy with this because, as MPs, we experience a very pleasant and constructive cooperation in the joint writing of a law. We also experience this pleasant cooperation with our diligent and smart employees, who are now behind us. We also work together with the Ministry of Security and Justice where necessary and desirable. The happiness we feel in this is, of course, caused by the fact that we are so aware that the form of fraud we are discussing here today is causing so much social damage. In addition, the first-term input showed that the colleagues of the VVD, the Labour Party, the CDA, the PVV and the SP all realise that we need to tackle this together. That is an incredibly beautiful basis, we are pleased to note. Acquisition fraud, or rather financial and economic crime, is based on raising false expectations and making tempting but secretly ambiguous promises. This has been a thorn in the eyes of ourselves, entrepreneurs, business organisations and many others for many years. The damage is estimated at about 400 million a year, but we suspect that far from all the damage is being monitored. In other words, there could be much more damage. In 2012, a small 30,000 notifications came in at the Acquisition Fraud Support Point. Simply put: there is a large number of people in our country getting rich from duping others through acquisition fraud. We, as proposers, would like to do something about this frustrating and unfair information. After this brief introduction, I would like to indicate how we will respond today. Mr Van Oosten will comment on the biggest amendment of the Code by this law, namely the adaptation of the Civil Code. This part is at the heart of our initiative law, especially since we, as proposers, do not have the impression or wish to create the impression that this issue should only be addressed by the public authorities. It is an illusion to think that only criminal law can effectively combat this form of crime. That is why we both consider the civil part of the law to be very important. As has already been said, Mr Van Oosten will explain this later. Of course, we will leave the questions put by the Chamber to the Minister for Security and Justice, who fortunately is on our side again today, to be left untouched and to allow the Chamber to await the Minister's reply. I myself will deal with the questions relating to criminal law, except for a few questions, which Mr Van Oosten will be responsible for. As far as criminal law is concerned, our proposal takes care of a number of issues. First of all, of course, of criminalising by means of a clear definition in the article of law. Secondly, a firm measure of punishment, which is consistent with penalties applicable to other offences of a financial and economic nature, both in terms of their level and in terms of their fine and in terms of their maximum imprisonment. Thirdly, the creation of a standard, to which Mr Recourt referred in his first contribution, a standard which can be derived from other matters. I will respond to that in my reply. First of all, briefly and briefly what we are proposing: adaptation of the Second Book of the Code of Criminal Law, Title 25, on fraud. Following Article 326c, an article is introduced, namely Article 326d, which reads: "He who, for the purpose of favouring himself or any other illegal act, commits any deceptive deception, in order to induce another person acting in the exercise of a profession, business or organisation to make a payment, shall be punished with a term of imprisonment of not more than two years or a fine of the fifth category." As a result of the current situation, hundreds of millions of euros of damage and many thousands of injured people each year, Members of Parliament often get the question of how this is actually possible in the Netherlands. Why isn't anything being done? This brings us to the first problem that exists today and which we would like to solve: the fact that there is usually no report of such a fraud case, because there is no clear criminalisation. The police often refer people to the civil courts. This then creates a vicious circle: no declaration, no prosecution, therefore no declaration. Mr Van Wijngaarden was right to ask us about this declaration. Because the addition of Article 326d does not, of course, mean that we are not yet here. However, we, as proposers, expect the willingness to report to increase once there is a clear criminalisation. On the one hand, an entrepreneur will no longer have to be disappointed to leave the police station because he or she was told that no declaration could be made, but on the other hand, one entrepreneur will also be advised, whether that is from a lawyer, a fellow entrepreneur or the fraud helpdesk, to report it. Indeed, there is a great deal more chance that the report will actually be made, and there is also a greater chance that action can be taken by the police and the public prosecutor. In our view, this already stimulates the willingness to press charges. A second important argument is that an entrepreneur may use evidence of declaration in civil proceedings. You will hear about this from Mr Van Oosten. Mr Van Wijngaarden also asked about the development of the willingness to report following the criminalisation of acquisition fraud in other countries, such as Austria. In Austria, following a new law and strict case law, it has become much more possible to help victims of acquisition fraud. Fraudsters are more often prosecuted and victims are more likely to recover their money under civil law. So these are good developments, which offer hope for the future. The VVD Group has also asked what to expect from the legal form. It is correct that the effectiveness of the bill also depends on how entrepreneurs, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary will apply the final law. That's how it's supposed to be. However, we feel in our belief that this bill will significantly improve the situation strengthened by the positive reactions. We were allowed to receive them from, among other things, the Dutch Association for Justice, the Public Prosecutor's Office and other institutions, such as SME-Netherlands and VNO-NCW business organisations. Our impression and even conviction is that the judiciary, both in the case of prosecution and in the case of justice, and the parties in the field, such as business organisations, will be able to deal with the law well. They will therefore be able to make good use of it where necessary and desirable. It goes without saying that the development of case law cannot be predicted. But it seems to us, as proposers, inevitable that there will be one in the area of criminal law. Mr Van Nispen has asked us to look at the possibility of moving on to the bank account number of acquisition fraudsters and how well this could go. In general, I can say that banking data is only provided in the case of a criminal offence. There is no doubt that this is the case in future with the explicit criminalisation of acquisition fraud. More specifically, I can say that Article 126nd of the Code of Criminal Procedure shows that, in the interest of the investigation, the Public Prosecutor can request the provision of banking data in the event of suspicion of a crime as defined in Article 67 (1). Before Mr Oskam pops up: Article 67, paragraph 1, deals only with offences for which pre-trial detention is permitted. That is not the case with our legislative amendment so far. But for these and other reasons, which I will explain later, I can say that the amendment in part No. 10 by Mr Oskam seems to us to be a good proposal, because it improves our legislative proposal. Now Mr. Oskam jumps up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u3	I've learned to be patient in the Chamber in two years. That was very difficult at first, but now I know how it works. I must say that it is a very sensible idea to adopt this amendment. I thank the authors for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u4	That's very nice to hear but not very amazing. It is therefore an improvement in our legislative proposal; thank you very much for the suggestion. With this positive explanation, we are happy to leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber. It is therefore possible, albeit as an exception, for the criminal offence with the degree of penalty we propose would not normally provide a basis for this. If I am right, the demand for banking data will be made easier by means of a digital system for all banks.................................................................................................................................................................................................... I have just mentioned Mr Oskam, who has been diligently engaged in serving us with as many as two amendments. To the amendment in part No. I have already briefly commented on 10 of them. That seems to us to be a good amendment. We agree with Mr Oskam's reasoning. The explanation of his arguments is plausible. It may be in the interest of the investigation to take a suspect into remand. The nature of the crime may make it necessary to do so, so that an acquisition fraudster does not see an opportunity to disappear into thin air. It is possible that the person has served himself with a false identity, or at least his real residence is not known. In that case, it may be taken into account by the judge who has to take a decision on the provisional detention. On the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. 9 by Mr Oskam, Mr Van Oosten will say the necessary in a moment, as will the other questions put by the CDA Group in the first place. I will continue with Mr Recourt's questions, but first I would like to thank Mrs Helder for her constructive and critical approach. She has only asked the Minister a question if we have noted it correctly, so I should like to thank her for making it clear to us that she too, in her time as a lawyer, regularly dealt with the victims of acquisition fraudsters and that she is therefore aware of the need to deal with the matter. Mr Recourt makes it clear that criminal law is not the solution; we agree with him. It is not the solution, but it is an important part of a solution. After all, by criminalising acquisition fraud, we say: pay attention, this is the norm. It's not normal. You're not supposed to fool people, you're not supposed to take advantage of people who act in good faith, you're going to abuse the trust that's always needed in trade to lurk people around, and you're going to become stinking rich yourself. Fortunately, the Labour Party also recognises that there is a shortcoming in our current criminal law on this point. We therefore share the view that criminal law cannot solve all the problems, but we also share the view that it must be clear in the law and therefore in the Penal Code that the conduct of acquisition fraudsters is seriously wrong, particularly harmful and therefore criminal. Mr Recourt has asked us what we are doing on a conditional basis. This is not a criminal offence according to our article, which states clearly: 'for the purpose of achieving'. In doing so, we have opted for the toughest form of design, and that is not the conditional design. The final judgment, which takes all aspects into account, remains of course for the courts, but with regard to what Mr Recourt also refers to, namely the failure to have the administration in order, the necessary provisions are laid down in another legislative process, namely the prohibition of civil law in the event of fraud, where the lack of proper administration does indeed result in punishment. Of course, I cannot go into that now when discussing this bill. However, it is intended that action should be punishable once again, depending on the circumstances which should be considered in the event of an obvious overinvoicing, whereby the acquisition fraudster knowingly asks for sums of money for actions which he obviously has not carried out, for services which he has not provided and for matters of which he is well aware that he should not ask for money for them but does so afterwards. This is a clear feature of acquisition fraud. However, here again, this should be done with the aim of illegally favouring itself. To be honest, however, I have understood Mr Recourt's question as well. The company that sends a too high invoice should have proven that the invoice is based on an explanation of the agreement that is not consistent. Mr Recourt also asked whether the chosen definition of fraud, the offence, was not too broad and whether it provided adequate legal certainty. I have two things to say about this. First of all, the wording chosen "for the purpose" provides sufficient certainty for companies that, for example, a sloppy, even negligent, which was not intended solely to allow another to make a payment for which there was no basis, will not constitute a criminal offence. After all, the most serious form of intent must be proven. This, in our view, provides good protection against being seen as a fraud, while there was no intention of deceiving or deceiving anyone. The choice of wording then gives sufficient scope to the Public Prosecutor's Office to prosecute various forms of acquisition fraud. However, if we had focused our wording much more on different forms of fraud, then I am sure what would be the result: there would be a new loophole in the law. The acquisition fraudsters will then simply look for a form of deception that is not mentioned in the actual criminalisation. You also read in the letter from the Public Prosecutor's Office that there are a number of things that are generic: moving to a payment, deception, with the aim of illegally favouring themselves; the fraudster is not entitled to payment; a contract is made under false pretenses. Those three elements include, as far as we can see now, all forms of acquisition fraud. The Group of the Party of European Socialists also asks: what is deceptive? A deceptive act within the meaning of this provision requires that the act is suitable for the purpose of falsely deluding the normal person who acts in the usual degree of observancy. We did not come up with the term 'deceptive act', which appears several times in the Code of Criminal Law, for example in Articles 328a, 331 and 332. The Supreme Court has long ago given the above explanation to the term. With this term, we therefore align ourselves with other articles of law in the Code of Criminal Law and with the case law. For example, Mr Recourt has also asked us to refer to the websites of the Fraudhelpdesk and the Support Point Acquisition fraud. Examples of misleading cases are usually shown there. In these cases, the latter is once again: usually the case of criminal deception. I do not want to go into too much detail about cases that are punishable, also because this is a matter of legislation and because then the Acts may confuse the interpretation of the article. In general, in order not to hinder legal form, the explanatory notes on the penalty provision prefer not to give too many examples. Finally, Mr Recourt asked us whether there were any entrepreneurs who would be afraid to initiate proceedings. That might be possible, but then, I suspect, there are still other offences, such as threats, extortion and blackmail. Normally, entrepreneurs want to file a report. This has always given rise to this question in recent years: they want to report it, but they can't do it; why can't it be done in our country? The fact that some entrepreneurs are put under pressure, for example by the threat of a bailiff on the pavement and therefore rising costs, is due to the fact that the position of acquisition fraudsters is still virtually untouchable. Hopefully, that'll change soon. However, this will require awareness of the situation which is hopefully changing with this legislative proposal. That is what Mr Van Oosten will go into. I hope I have answered all the questions with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u5	I don't see anyone jumping up. All I see is a goddamn nod and even thumbs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mr. Chairman. It goes without saying that I am happy to endorse the introductory remarks made by my colleague Mr Gesthuizen. I find it a bit exciting to speak from this side towards the Chamber rather than from the Chamber. It is good to make a contribution to the parliamentary debate from this side. I have sincerely enjoyed the introduction of colleagues in the first term and, of course, the questions raised in it. Of course, all contributions were fantastic, but one of the contributions struck me in particular, because it expressed at the heart of why Mr Gesthuizen and I, like a number of other Members of Parliament, have made us so hard to tackle acquisition fraud. That is what Mr Recourt has been able to say very well in saying that something that is generally perceived as a criminal offence should also be criminalised. Moreover, he was right to point out that this is without prejudice to the fact that, of course, entrepreneurs and companies have to pay attention to whom they pay. That's right. My colleague has already indicated that the rule of law should be that in this country it is simply not accepted that a bunch of bad guys who are working hard should be allowed to do so because we are talking about him in a deceptive way. We don't tolerate these crooks. It is motivating to contribute to countering this. I shall now turn to the questions. We answer the questions to our best abilities, but with the help of and thanks to the excellent support that is behind us here. I will address the questions raised by the SP on civil law and the cooperation of the banks. In doing so, I will take with me the questions of the VVD about the own responsibility of disadvantaged people. Next, I will address the CDA's questions on black lists and any increase in the penalty rate, the fine to be imposed, as suggested by Mr Oskam. Finally, I will address Mr Recourt's questions on prevention. On behalf of the SP Group, Mr Van Nispen has asked what the expectations of both of us are about the new civil law provisions. How will it work in practice and is it simple enough to call upon it? At the moment, if they are deceived, entrepreneurs can rely on the criminality of, for example, fraud, error or misconduct. We have, of course, looked at this, but it does not always seem easy to show that this is true. We believe that the proposals we make in civil law help to ensure that those who have been victims of acquisition fraud can get rid of the agreement more quickly and easily and thus take their own responsibility. This is the own responsibility which Mr Van Wijngaarden rightly pointed out in the first term. The standard thus becomes that the misleading, withholding essential information or the unclear or ambiguous presentation of data is considered unlawful. In connection with the burden of proof, the fraudster must then be involved in proving that there is a valid agreement and not a misleading communication. This seems to us to be very valuable in the adaptation of civil law. Of course, attention must be paid to those who make payment of invoices. This also speaks for itself, as far as we are concerned. I come to the cooperation of the banks. Mr Van Nispen, on behalf of the SP Group, asked whether there were any opportunities to move on to the bank account number and whether there was scope for cooperation with banks to deal with criminals who committed acquisition fraud. I believe that we have had fruitful consultations with the Dutch Banking Association. It appeared to us that the NVB would very much like to block bank accounts if it turns out that these bank accounts are being misused for fraud. That good will is there; let me make that clear. However, it is not easy. Especially right now, it's not easy, because you can't just block a bank account like that. A bank also has a responsibility to maintain the customer. If we criminalise acquisition fraud as an independent crime, banks would be given greater opportunities to take action. That is exactly why the NVB has been enthusiastic about the proposal we are defending today in this House. Mr Oskam asked a number of questions about a blacklist, or about the taking-and-shaming of those who commit acquisition fraud. That question was asked not only to Mr Gesthuizen and myself, but also, perhaps as a result, to the Minister. I would like to take this opportunity to give a response to this point to the House of Representatives. In his questions, Mr Oskam did read what was left in the middle and I understood that at least it should be a blacklist created by the government or a blacklist created by the business community. That difference is relevant in a possible impact. A blacklist drawn up by the government simply does not fit in with our criminal justice system, I must point out. You might want to change that, but that's the situation for now. The Judicial and Criminal Data Act does not provide a legal basis for the processing of criminal convictions for the benefit of third parties to indicate who has committed acquisition fraud. If there is a desire in business to create a blacklist of acquisition fraudsters, this would in principle be possible. Then too, however, you cannot do that from one moment to the next. There are, however, a number of conditions, which I also find very understandable, given that you have to be very secure with this. In this area, for example, we have been told that we have entered into consultations with the College on personal data protection, specifically in order to give the correct and complete answer, we need an exemption from the College in which, in particular, proportionality and subsidiarity play a role. This means, among other things, that the data must be accurate and accurate. A threshold should be set against the lightly recording of personal data. It is also the case that a judgment of the Supreme Court has been delivered in which it has been held that entry in a register has rightly been based on the criterion of whether the conduct found gives rise to more serious suspicion than a reasonable presumption of guilt. In other words, it can be done in a single case, in which a protocol has been used and a blacklist has been used, but you have to do what you have to do. This is without prejudice to the fact that you have to ask yourself how effective such a blacklist is now. You can discuss this with each other for a long time, but fraudsters sometimes use a false or non-existent identity. They're gonna go on with another name or make it up. The fact that someone's on such a blacklist doesn't mean that that person couldn't approach you as a fraud. Of course, attention remains to be paid to this point. When we looked at this particular case, we thought that this once again calls for the standard to be firmly enshrined in the law and that you should regard acquisition fraud as a criminal offence. I come to another point raised by Mr Oskam. I appreciate that from Mr Oskam, because it shows that, following the example of his colleague Koppejan in the previous period, he is putting his shoulders on the fight against acquisition fraud. Mr Gesthuizen has just told us about the remand. I can do that now with regard to his proposal to increase the penalty and the fine. After all, Mr Oskam has proposed that private fraudsters should be fined up to €810,000. That's according to a sixth-category fine. Let me be clear. We do not share this view. I'm gonna explain why that is. We regard the fifth category, with a fine of €81,000, as a high category for individuals. The judge is also free, of course, to impose a prison sentence. I can imagine that this is a punishment that a private individual feels very firm. Moreover, it is not unimportant to mention that the taking away of the assets of which the criminal, the frauder, has become richer, is, of course, independent of that. It is therefore still possible to extract illegally acquired assets. In this way, Mr Oskam places the emphasis on the private acquisition fraudsters, but of course it is also often companies that are guilty of this. For companies, for legal persons, there is already the possibility to move on to the sixth category. Mr Oskam himself pointed this out in the debate that took place in the first period. Finally, in the assessment we have made that more or less similar offences, such as scam and healing, also have a fifth category criminal threat. Then we find it difficult to impose a heavier penalty on acquisition fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u7	I do not want to detract from Mrs Gesthuizen and Mr Van Oosten's very good initiative proposal, but I did lack some support on this point. We don't know exactly who's committing this acquisition fraud. I asked if we could check with the police about what kind of perps we're dealing with. Is this about sole proprietorship, is it about natural persons or is it always organisations that do this sort of thing? If that is the case, it might be important to increase that fine. I know you can take away the advantage you've illegally obtained, but it doesn't hurt them very much. After all, they have no right to do so. So you really want to meet people, then you have to be able to hit them in their wallet. So that is the underlying idea to think along with, but the first question is what is the relationship between sole proprietors and legal entities consisting of several participants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u8	That's a clear question. Our information has shown, as far as you can verify, that acquisition fraud is usually committed by companies. You can also derive this from the register of the Chamber of Commerce. It is true that it may also be private individuals or one-man companies that are going through this process. I fully understand the commitment shown by Mr Oskam along this road, but I would remind him of the relationship with other criminal offences that we have included in our Code of Criminal Law, because they are also limited to the fifth category. I think that is relevant in the assessment of this. I would like to point out once again that it is possible to take away the illegal assets, which is a relevant consideration. As far as we are concerned, that is a balanced assessment. We do not recommend the amendment proposed by Mr Oskam on behalf of the CDA in this area. Then I come to Mr Recourt's questions, including prevention. Mr Recourt asked how entrepreneurs could be supported to make a declaration. He also wants to know whether a particular category of entrepreneurs can be designated who, out of fear, do not want to initiate proceedings. Mr Recourt also asked about the role of the entrepreneurial squares. He wants to know whether they can be strengthened and what the Fraud Helpdesk could possibly do in addition, particularly in view of vulnerable entrepreneurs. With regard to these vulnerable entrepreneurs, Mr Recourt pointed out that he was particularly concerned about the small businessman, who could be financially stuck. He suggested that the interbranch organisation could play an additional role in this. In reply to these questions, I can state, on behalf of my colleague, that entrepreneurial squares and the Fraud Helpdesk can certainly play a role in supporting entrepreneurs to report, for example. This subject just came along. I refer to the website on which various information is given about the risks of acquisition in the event of fraud and how you could act when you have become a victim of it. It is also very important that the Chamber of Commerce should actively warn against the devious way in which crooked acquisites operate. These are just some examples of moments when the entrepreneur is warned not to fall into that kind of practice. We are so concerned about small businesses. They could potentially get stuck. In any case, it is the small entrepreneurs who really feel the few hundred euros knocked out of their pockets. This is precisely why we believe that the standard should be included in criminal law that acquisition fraud is punishable. We also believe that civil law should be designed in such a way as to put entrepreneurs in a position to resist this type of acquisition fraud. I understand that there will still be many challenges. I would like to conclude, without doubt, that the Fraud Helpdesk would also be active, even more so than it is now, that, as a result of the law, vulnerable entrepreneurs have opportunities to obtain their rights. The same applies, of course, to the inter-branch organisations. We have had very good discussions with the umbrella trade organisation in this area, the SME Netherlands. We have also shared this with the Chamber in the run-up to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u9	I give the floor to the Minister for Security and Justice, who will address wise words to the Chamber in the context of his role as advisor to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u10	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet would like to express its deep appreciation for this proposal and for the efforts of both initiators, Mrs Gesthuizen and Mr Van Oosten, to provide a comprehensive response to acquisition fraud. Acquisition fraud is one of the phenomena that must be vigorously combated in the field of horizontal fraud. Horizontal fraud is a serious form of crime because it causes financial and emotional damage to those involved. In addition, horizontal fraud undermines confidence in trade and the feeling of justice. The cabinet is therefore committed to combating these forms of fraud, including acquisition fraud. Effective prevention and fight against horizontal fraud requires a joint approach between public and private parties. The initiative proposal, with both a civil and a criminal component, is, in the Cabinet's view, a good complement to existing instruments and improves the possibilities for effective action against acquisition fraud. The Cabinet welcomes the proposal to make communications which deliberately omit essential information or are presented unclearly as misleading. The idea that certain malicious practices are, in any case, considered misleading also appeals to the cabinet. This also applies to the proposed reversal of the burden of proof in the event of acquisition fraud. The government sees the intended criminalisation of acquisition fraud as a welcome addition to the criminal instruments for dealing with financial and economic crime. I am thinking here of the law which has now entered into force on the extension of the scope for combating financial and economic crime and the legislative proposal on criminalisation of bankruptcy fraud. The cabinet therefore welcomes the initiative proposal. A few questions have been asked from the Chamber. Mr Van Nispen asked about the possibilities to move on to the bank account number. Can we work with the banks to tackle acquisition fraud? This has been said by Mrs Gesthuizen and Mr Van Oosten. The National Platform Crime Control and the Financial Expertise Centre work together with private parties, such as banks, in the context of the comprehensive approach to fraud, and discuss what can be done to prevent and combat fraud. In the context of tackling horizontal fraud, public and private parties jointly develop different fraud domains, such as acquisition fraud, barrier models. The aim of this is to identify the barriers that the parties involved can create against criminal activities. The entire criminal trial is being mapped out. It looks at which parties, including banks, have the opportunity to intervene. The results are expected in the course of this year. If there is a criminal investigation in the event of a financial gain crime, the investigation will also focus on confiscating the criminally acquired assets, including the bank balance, and on taking them away. The aim of compensating victims is central to this. In short, there is certainly cooperation. Mrs Helder asked if the government thinks that a criminal approach is necessary if the seriousness of the fraud so requires. Preventing fraud is the most effective way to prevent victimisation. Good information is essential here. If fraud is committed, criminal law will be used in cases involving vulnerable victims, systematic perpetrators, substantial financial damage or undermining activities. In the context of the security agenda, which your Chamber knows, where the fight against fraud is one of the six priorities, it is for the first time that such a central priority is formulated for the police by the Public Prosecutor and the mayors. In this context, the result agreement was reached between the police and the prosecutor that 1,500 fraud cases will be picked up by the police in 2015. Therefore, I see the proposed specific criminalisation of acquisition fraud as an appropriate complement to the criminal law instruments for tackling acquisition fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u11	The next comment is for the Acts. The Minister pretends that it would be a question of my group whether the initiative legislative proposal on the criminal law approach complements the approach to acquisition fraud. However, that was a comment from the government two years ago. I asked whether the government still thinks so, or whether it has become a little more enthusiastic. I have already heard the Minister say that it is a welcome addition, so I have no question about that. However, I thought it appropriate to note this for the Acts. In the first place, I have already said on behalf of my group that we fully agree with the initiative proposal. As a result of the list that the Minister has just given, I say: keep up the good work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u12	There is no reason for me to supplement the Acts on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u13	Mr Van Nispen has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u14	My question concerns the bank account number. The Minister said that the possibilities for public and private parties to move forward will be discussed on the bank account number. It is very nice that this is being discussed. Today, I have heard from the initiators that precisely the explicit criminalisation introduced in the bill gives the opportunity to recover that data. I would like to urge the Minister once again, to the extent necessary, to use this sentence and to use it often in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u15	The answer to both points is yes. That is why this is a welcome addition for the cabinet and also for the private parties, who support the initiative proposal at its core for this reason. I am therefore positive on both points. I come to the amendments. First of all, the amendment on item No. 9. In addition to what has already been said by both Mrs Gesthuizen and Mr Van Oosten, I am giving an opinion to the Chamber on behalf of the cabinet. In the amendment to item No. 9 proposes to increase the maximum fine for acquisition fraud, as provided for in Article 3.26d of the Criminal Code, from the fifth to the sixth category of fines. In the system of the Criminal Code, the sixth category of fine refers to the sanctioning of legal persons. The lucrative nature of the offences for which those persons are convicted means that the maximum fine in the fifth category, €81.000, does not allow effective punishment. This means, on the one hand, that the amendment goes against the system of the Code of Criminal Law, while, on the other hand, it is not necessary to achieve what is mentioned in the explanatory memorandum as the purpose of the amendment. Indeed, under Article 23 (7) of the Code of Criminal Law, economic operators, legal persons, are already subject to a maximum fine of the sixth category, as has already been indicated by Mr Van Oosten. I would also point out that there is no limit in our criminal law to the cumulation of fines. I refer to Article 57 (2) of the Code of Criminal Law. This means that each individual fake letter or ghost note that sends an acquisition fraudster is subject to a fifth category fine. By letter, therefore, a conviction is deemed possible. Acquisition fraud is often committed by sending a series of fake invoices to many companies, with guessing that one pays by mistake. In practice, therefore, a multiple of the maximum fine of €81,000 is often already in question. I therefore reject the amendment to item No. 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u16	I've been a district attorney and a judge myself. It almost never happens that different facts on the subpoena are punished differently. Usually everything is taken off at once. That is also effective, and we want it to be. I am sensitive to the argument that the system of the law opposes it, but the point is that we are trying to protect consumers from people who commit acquisition fraud. This is often done by companies, but it can also be sole proprietorship. That's where the dilemma lies. In the system of government, the Authority Consumer & Market may impose fines up to a maximum of €450,000. Then the $81,000 will be out of tune. Perhaps the Minister could shed some light on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u17	In the case of entrepreneurs, we are talking here about a penalty under Article 23 (7) in cases where this is necessary, a maximum penalty of the sixth category. In our criminal law, a separate judgment is given in a fake letter and a fine is awarded separately. If you add that up, you get a multiple of what is indicated as a maximum fine, namely that €81,000. It's just a simple sum that points out, even in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u18	That may be true, but in practice it is not. Someone who commits acquisition fraud will get one subpoena. There are six or five facts on that. This is about what was agreed between the court and the Public Prosecutor's Office. However, one sentence is handed out. Then it doesn't work that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u19	It could be a hundred.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u20	Yes. Another point is that we are fighting over the term "enterprise." Most of the time, companies will commit this kind of fact, but it can also be one-man business. That is why the amendment has been tabled, because single-man matters are getting out of hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u21	I think they're mostly entrepreneurs. That's what the system is for. The facts we have at our disposal are no different from those of the initiators. This shows that there is no reason to support the amendment. That is why I must advise against the amendment. The amendment in part No. 10 refers to the addition of acquisition fraud to the list of offences for which pre-trial detention may be applied. Since the use of special investigative powers and coercive means in a number of cases requires that the crime in question may be subject to pre-trial detention, this amendment extends the possibilities for detection. This amendment would allow, for example, the power to request transaction data from certain bank accounts to be used. See Article 126nd Code of Criminal Procedure. This can only be done on suspicion of a crime for which pre-trial detention is permitted. In that sense, I see the added value of the amendment. I would like to leave the opinion to the Chamber in a positive way. That is my contribution to the cabinet's opinion on this extremely good proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u22	I welcome the Minister's advice, but there are also other advantages, namely that someone can be detained out of the blue, which is, of course, also very important, and that someone can be insured. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the amendment is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u23	I don't want to contradict that. I would like to leave it to the House to vote on this amendment at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u24	Thank you for your contribution. This brings the first deadline to an end. I ask Members whether there is a need for a second deadline. Can we start with that right away? I see a nod in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u25	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr van Oosten and Mrs Gesthuizen for their response to the questions I asked on behalf of the VVD. The authors are convincingly pointing out the broad social need, and they have convinced me that this bill will be given wings as soon as it enters into force, in order to respond to this need. Let us hope that this will be successful, even in the course that remains. I can only wish the proposers every success. I would also like to thank the Minister for his crystal clear answer, as the Chamber is used to it. I would also like to express my appreciation for the positive attitude of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u26	Mr. Chairman. For my part, too, I would like to give a complete answer. You guys make a great team. I'd almost say you guys should do this more often. The SP is genuinely pleased that we are finally going to tackle this irritating and persistent form of fraud through this law, both civil and criminal. That integrated approach is the power of this law. I also welcome the fact that the Chamber itself has taken the initiative in this regard. There was a loophole in the law, acquisition fraud had no legal basis so far, it was not definitely forbidden and there was discussion about it. Fortunately, there is now a ban. It remains important to educate people so that they do not fall for it and are not fooled by ghost invoices. The authors have also spoken about this. I would like to ask the Minister how he sees the role of the Chamber of Commerce, the Fraud Helpdesk and the Accessory Fraud Support Point and its importance. My point in the first term was that information can never be so good and excellent that nobody falls for it anymore. Therefore, we need to provide legal protection to entrepreneurs through the civil law part of this law, so that entrepreneurs themselves are placed in the position to come to terms with the agreement, which has been created in a misleading way. Mr Van Oosten has answered very well how it will work in practice with this new burden of proof. I do not therefore have any further questions at the moment. I hope that in practice this part will actually get what we hope to do. Then I'll get to the criminal part of this law. There will therefore be a new Article 326d, in which there will be a prison sentence of not more than two years or a fine of the fifth category. The amendment in part No. Mr Oskam proposed that the fine be increased to the sixth category. My group will certainly not support this proposal. There is no other crime in the Code of Criminal Law on which this fine is made. For legal persons, this is already a possible fine. Furthermore, I am sensitive to the arguments put forward, such as the argument that it is contrary to the system of the law. In the first period, I was asked what I think of the amendment on item No. 10 by Mr Oskam. I have already said that I am sympathetic to this and that I will look into it. In the meantime, I am convinced that this is a nice addition to the legislative proposal and that it does have added value. We talked about retrieving the bank account number. These questions have also been adequately answered by the Minister. I have two more questions for the Minister. The first question concerns the willingness to report. We now have a new sentence. Could it be that organisations such as the Fraud Help Desk or perhaps VNO-NCW or the SME Netherlands, on behalf of the disadvantaged entrepreneurs, report the new offence, the acquisition fraud under Article 326d? This could save the entrepreneurs a lot of trouble. Is that possible and does the Minister see its added value? Then I come to my second and final question. Previously, the SP advocated it and adopted a motion to ensure that targets have been set for tackling fraud, including tackling horizontal fraud. The Minister also said something about this. Do we also get insight at any time into how many persecutions and punishments have taken place in the context of the Van Oosten/Gesthuizen bill and, therefore, how often Article 326d has been applied in practice? That's it. I still have to wish the two initiators good luck in the Upper House. Perhaps that is a little premature, because we obviously still have to vote on this, but I will say it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u27	Mr. Chairman. We can count too, so I'm sure it'll work out next week. Following Mr Van Nispen's attempt to get Mr Van Oosten and Mrs Gesthuizen together, I would like to thank both initiators for their prompt response. It happened quickly and they were clear answers. I would also, of course, like to thank the Minister for his advice. The intention of the CDA was, in part, to tighten up the law a little bit more. Credits have also been given to Mr Koppejan, who started with this earlier. The name-and-shaming has been dealt with by Mr Van Oosten. It is true that we have left it a bit in the middle, because I have already been told from previous discussions with the Ministry that it was very sensitive. This is not in line with the government, but it may still be possible to figure it out. I'm fine with it if it doesn't happen from the government. Maybe business should pick it up on its own. Mr Van Oosten once again called into question effectiveness. Of the week, I had a minute to watch TV. That's when I saw scammed. A lady said: I looked at scammed two months ago and then saw this item; therefore I knew I had to pay attention. I think it's always good that it's known. Even though people change names; it's just good to do everything to discourage it as much as possible. Prevention is just better than cure. Then I come to the amendment on the increase to €810,000. I have listened carefully and of course I can count. The intention was to house sole proprietorships as well, but I notice that there is no majority for it. I maintain the amendment and we will vote on it next week. Of course, I am very pleased with the advice of the Minister and the initiators on pre-trial detention, because I know from practice that it is useful if you can keep someone out of the blue and that you can hold someone for more than six hours. Especially with fraudsters, who will deny at the beginning or keep their mouths shut, you just need more time. The Minister had found another argument, namely that it would be easier to obtain data. So I welcome the advice. I too congratulate the initiators, because I am sure they will succeed. As far as I'm concerned, too, good luck in the Upper Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u28	Mrs Helder of the PVV has already said everything that needs to be said and has waived her second term. Finally, Mr Recourt of the Labour Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u29	Mr. Chairman. It is for me to be the last to thank the initiators, their associates and the minister for the good answers. They were even so good that I was pointed out in a very subtle way on a mistake around intent. For indeed: if design is as formulated as in your law, there is no conditional intent. Thank you for that subtle hint. On another point, I still doubt I was wrong. It is about my request to give examples. The proposers say: "We don't actually do that; look at the site. There are a number of things on this, but we are not sure whether all this is covered by our legislative proposal and whether all these examples are punishable. Let's leave this to the judge." At least that is how I understood the proposers. I still have some doubts about that, because what you are doing is actually giving the judge room to determine whether all the concrete cases that come to court are covered by the bill. But if you already have firm ideas as initiators, then of course you can refer them to the judge. The judge will always ask "is this concrete case subject to this law?" to take account of the intention of the legislator. If the intention of the legislator is clear and comprehensive, the judge has less room to say: this is whether it is covered or not. I still have that question open. I will advise my group to support the amendment on the possibility of granting pre-trial detention. It fits within the context of other crimes contained in that article. I saw that Article 326c of the Code of Criminal Law is also included. That's a similar crime. For this purpose, too, remanded custody has been made possible. I will end with all my congratulations now, because you can really do that if you can count. The cabinet has put fraud high on the agenda, and I think it is quite right for the Chamber itself to supplement it where it appears necessary, as is the case here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u30	Thank you. This brings to an end the second term on the part of the Chamber. The initiators have indicated that they need a short suspension to prepare their response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u31	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much to those Members who have said once again that they are looking positively at the legislative proposal. Some Members have waived a second term, from which I also make it clear that there is still enthusiasm. In any case, this was demonstrated by the interruption of Mrs Helder of the PVV. I believe that one very clear question has been put by Mr Recourt. He is, of course, right: the Chamber has a right to know what we are thinking about. I would like to point out to him that in the note on the report we have already mentioned matters, but I would like to be here for his sake and to name a number of matters which we consider to be clearly the subject of acquisition fraud, albeit in general terms. I want to avoid creating the impression that I am going to give an exhaustive list of cases that would be punishable by this law, while ultimately there are cases under the courts to try to circumvent that. Then we're back to square one. I have worked with Mr Van Oosten and with everyone else with great pleasure, but I did not intend to go back behind the desk for this subject in a year's time; rather rather something else. Then briefly, ghost invoices. A few years ago, a letter was sent by the Office for Customers, the KvK. The abbreviation resembled the Chamber of Commerce, the logo resembled the logo of the then Chamber of Commerce and the font was the same colour. That was a ghost bill. Entrepreneurs thought in many cases, based on the logo, that they had to pay something. They have to pay for the trade register anyway, so they were paid. That's an example. These may also be cases where a false presentation of things is given about, for example, the issue of a guide or the scope of an advertisement. That's another example. This is not exhaustive, but a third example of cases where the documents for signature by the entrepreneur do not clearly show that they are a contract or other document which follows a payment obligation. We are sure that these three things are quite common, and at least these are covered by the definition we have included in the article. I hope I have satisfied Mr Recourt with this. I shall now give the floor, if you will excuse me, to allow the President to give the floor to my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u32	Thank you very much for your contribution and indeed give the floor to Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u33	Mr. Chairman. If I have listened very critically, I have to say that I have not actually been asked any questions. I do not wish to deprive myself of the opportunity to give a brief response towards Mr Oskam. He has made a number of comments which give me cause for a short response. First of all, Mr Oskam was right to point out that this issue needs constant publicity. That is what we are doing with each other now in support of this bill and in discussing it. Mr Oskam referred to a programme as scammed. I believe that we should be able to make our appearance there once, and that also makes us aware of it. The same applies to the fraud aid desk and to the inter-branch organisations and so on. That's how it's supposed to be. In his amendment, Mr Oskam, on behalf of his group, suggests that the penalty be increased. In our information, it is mostly companies that are in the penalty potential of €810,000. If you also increase that penalty for individuals, then you walk out of line with the penalty for healing and scams. But what is particularly interesting is this: we are now going to set a new standard. If the congratulations that we received in advance are also true, then this will be in the Lower House next week and we will continue to develop it in the Upper Chamber. Then it becomes the norm. Let us then consider to what extent the cumulation to which the Minister referred can be realized, other than the experience that Mr Oskam has had in that regard. This may also be due to the fact that that standard was not so explicit and clear in the law as regards the acquisition fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u34	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Nispen has asked me a single question. Information is, of course, very important. Prevention is always better than cure. Prevention is also better. Known and effective campaigns are online. In it people are warned. There are also the billboards of the Fraudhelpdesk. Warnings can also be found on the websites and in publications of SMEs-Netherlands, VNO-NCW and individual industry organisations. The start-ups and general websites of banks also regularly pay attention to this. I can go on for a while. We will continue to monitor this and follow it as part of the fraud approach. That is, of course, the heart of the matter. You have to stop and fight after. There has been talk of the willingness to report. Could there be a collective declaration, for example by the Fraud Help Desk or by VNO-NCW? No. Only the person directly concerned may report an offence committed against him or her. That is the starting point. Organisations can, of course, facilitate reporting. This often falls within the remit of such an organisation. Are we gonna monitor this? Does the Court understand the number of cases dealt with under criminal law and involving acquisition fraud? The answer to those questions is yes. The fraud monitor currently being developed by the Public Prosecutor's Office will provide insight into this. The figures will then always be available at the end of the year, because then, of course, we will only have an overview. How does this happen and what are the effects? I also congratulate the authors once again and congratulate them on the broad support they receive from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u35	We are voting next Tuesday on the amendments tabled and on the legislative proposal.
