ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u1	I would like to welcome those present, in particular the Minister for Security and Justice and the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport. We have agreed that speaking time per group is five minutes. Let's see how far we can get with that. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u2	Mr. Chairman. Helping confused people in the Netherlands is not doing well. If the Hoekstra Committee's report makes any point, it is. It went terribly wrong in Bart's case of you. That case isn't on its own, it's not on its own. The problem is also getting bigger. I quote part of an e-mail I received in response to the publicity about the Hoekstra report. "On 27 September 2013, my mother was stabbed by a psychiatric patient with a knife during her work as a home care worker. She died on the scene. In addition to the many sorrows my father, brother, sister, my whole family and I have had, there has also been a lot of anger. And still do. Indeed, because authorities have not communicated properly and because it is difficult for us to bring this to our attention. Ma'am shouldn't have lived on her own. My mother and the rest of the neighborhood nurse didn't know this lady had any serious mental problems. Yet she was known to the police, housing corporation, general practitioners, an earlier psychiatric institution and so on. Residents of the flat she lived in warned about this woman, but no one took action. A few years earlier, this lady also tried to strangle another nurse. This too was not known to us and did not come to light until an investigation was started." I'll give you another little example of everyday life. Here in The Hague a confused man sits on the tram talking in himself and shouting in his own world. The conductor calls a boa, an inspector. He comes and tries to start a conversation. That's not gonna work. Eventually, the inspector still manages to write a fine. The inspector goes away and the gentleman falls back into his own confused world. These are examples where things are not going well. In one case, things are not going very well, but also in that small example they are about confused people who get a fine, but not help. I'll come back to that later. In this debate, we must give a very great first impetus to getting this help to confused people, to prevent suffering, to help people who need it and to make the Netherlands safer. The starting point for the Labour Party is that care is to be taken for punishment, that prevention is to be paid for and that cooperation goes beyond group interest. It is a general debate and the subject will and must be referred back to the Chamber's agenda, to this committee but also to the VWS committee. I have three topics, which I can summarize with the words "direction," "DNA" and "money." I'd like to start with the heading "direction." Bart van U. has made desperate attempts to serve his sentence and his family has also made desperate attempts to get him treatment. And no matter how hard they banged on the door, they couldn't hear from the government. The Hoekstra Committee quite rightly points an accusing finger at the Public Prosecutor's Office. This organisation has been seriously flawed in many respects. But also on the other hand, the ggz-side, it didn't go well. Information from criminal law, for example, was not available when it had to be decided whether Van U. should be treated as an obligation, should be held for a while. Above all, the direction was completely lacking. No one is responsible for sharing information. The Hoekstra Committee recommends that the D.A. be given the role of director. The Security House is going to play an important role in this. I have a lot of questions about this. In her letter of 30 June, the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport does not comment on the recommendation of the Hoekstra Committee to place the public prosecutor more firmly. Does she still want to do this in her reply? Can she take away the fear that this will make criminal law dominant? Finally, we want to emphasise the ggz, to stress the need for prevention. What does this mean for the position of the medical director, who should be given a heavier role in the new law, which will still be dealt with in the Chamber? I ask the Minister of V and J: why is it chosen for the prosecution if this organisation has left it that way? The BOPZ Act is the step-child of the D.A. and that is also not illogical in view of the other activities. In addition, criminal law is reactive. It won't be deployed until it's gone wrong. Has any consideration been made as to who should be given the directional role? The Public Prosecutor's Office, the mayor and the medical director are all possible players to whom you can direct. What's the trade-off? Can the Minister comment on this later? In what way should the draft legislation be amended to strengthen that role of the Public Prosecutor? Those legislative proposals shall enter into force at the earliest in 2018. How is the government going to implement the urgent recommendation of the Hoekstra Commission to come up with temporary regulations for the interim period? I come now to matters which are not included in the Hoekstra Committee's report. My group very much welcomes yesterday's letter from yesterday's Minister which focuses on urgent assistance for confusion, local direction, connecting to the safety house and the chain approach. This is all very important, but I'm missing a number of things. For example: how do we ensure that the confused man from the tram arrives at the professional triage, with this special attention? He'll have to come in first to pay that attention. How are we gonna arrange for carers? The family members of Bart van U. are mainly carers, people who are very involved with their family members. We left them in the cold a lot. Nor do I read in the plans how we should help, protect or support the carers. This is exactly what this cabinet is doing, isn't it? I'm thinking about time, Mr. Chairman. I'm going very fast. I'm gonna skip a little bit. I will also be very brief on the subject of DNA: my group still has doubts about the Minister's proposals. As spokesperson, I did get a lot further in the Hoekstra Committee's proposal on Monday. I'm gonna stick with this for a while. The money...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u3	Mr Recourt, you'd better get it over with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u4	Mr Recourt raised the following question a little bit by saying that he might be moving up a bit as a result of the hearing. Why would you have to make a new law now, when the old law has not been properly implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u5	I'll finish my lines. I'll come to the money. Without money, you can't live up to your ambitions. The Minister will accept all the recommendations made to the prosecution, but the prosecution said on Monday that it cannot do so on its own. The Minister has always had an outstretched hand and told him to come to him if there are any problems. This is the moment. My question is: how will this be completed? Of course, it will only really be dealt with in the budget, but perhaps the Minister will be able to look ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u6	The Hoekstra Committee concluded that the DNA of 20% to 30% of all convicted people is not in the DNA database, whereas it should be. The Hoekstra committee says: you should not increase that group of people, but the police should take down cheek slime when it can do so; that is the time of insurance. I have big questions about that. Does that fit within Article 8 of the ECHR? How does it fit the privacy? How do you make that procedure so that no one ever enters the DNA database that doesn't belong? The question is, how are you going to implement that law? This is a solution direction you can think of. My group has said quite clearly: ho, ho, we do not agree with this for the time being. I would ask the Minister to get to work quickly and to inform the Chamber on the points I have just mentioned. Only then will I give a go or a no-go on behalf of my group. But I do think we should look into this quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u7	I understand you're thinking about that. But I also know Mr Recourt as someone who says: when it comes to suspects, you should not exchange the status of suspect for the status of already convicted. What if this is going to happen? Then DNA will be taken. Nothing can be done about that. No profile should be made of that yet. So the moment there's no conviction, the DNA should be destroyed again. What is Mr Recourt's view of the entire bureaucracy and the prevention of errors?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u8	I've just said that I have great concerns about that. So I want to make that clear. I also have arguments to say: let's investigate it. Mrs. Berndsen spoke of DNA, but it's about cheek mucus. The police are also taking fingerprints. In addition, cheek mucus will be removed immediately. This is exactly in line with the current objection procedure. If you object to the inclusion of DNA in the DNA database, that cheek mucus is simply removed. You can't protest that either. That jar is kept. If you object to this and then a decision is taken, then the game goes into the trash or a code is made of it. In that case, the game goes into the database. You'd have to expand that objection procedure for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u9	I have read in the media today that, through Mr Recourt, the PvdA, in response to the Hoekstra Committee's report, believes that the Public Prosecutor's Office should receive additional money. Last week there was a vote on a motion by my group calling on the government not to allow the additional cuts to be made in the Public Prosecutor's Office without any political consideration. This motion was supported by almost all colleagues here in the Chamber, but not by the VVD and not by Mr Recourt's group. Does he think otherwise now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u10	No. My plea is not: Public Prosecutor's Office, although you've done a lot less than your standards, here's a bag of money. If there is to be money, the Minister must first talk to the Public Prosecutor about what he can do. Secondly, we need to look very closely at where the money should go. That approach must therefore be targeted, and it is not small. After all, it is about ICT. I worked with COMPAS myself in the last century, but that system still exists. That's gonna cost a lot of money, and it's already cost a lot of money. So there are a lot of points that need focused money. I'd rather not, I'm telling you, because it's not like they did so well. However, there cannot be an uncovered cheque.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u11	Then there's still a question with me. I have now heard Mr Recourt say: 'if money is to be added, it must be directed'. It says in the media that the PvdA thinks that there should be money. Is Mr Recourt wrongly quoted?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u12	The paper says it's fine. I said that if the Public Prosecutor himself indicated that he was up to the mark, as it did two weeks ago, some people are saying that he was even sitting about the measure, and there is now a very extra programme coming to them that one says oneself cannot do, it is time to fill that extended hand with content as well. How to fill that hand with content is up to the Minister. In substance, we will come back to that today. As far as finances are concerned, I hope that a hint of the veil can be lifted, but I think that we can only really see this in the budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u13	When it comes to DNA and the time when it is taken, I recognize myself in the questions asked by Mr Recourt. That is indeed a searching attitude. However, you must listen carefully to your advisors. Now the Minister of Security and Justice has said that there will be a privacy impact analysis. I do not know exactly who is going to carry out this analysis, but it is being outsourced to a renowned external conscience. The Personal Data Protection Board will undoubtedly also have an opinion on it. Suppose that results that this does not relate to the ECHR and that it is at odds with it, is that a red line for the PvdA Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u14	Yes, of course, especially as Mr Segers puts it now, namely if it is contrary to a treaty, certainly not the least treaty, to which the Netherlands is bound. We shouldn't do that. In fact, if we do it, we'll leave it to the judge to shoot it again. I think that's a very stupid move. Of course that's a condition. Moreover, the practice is usually a little more difficult and a little more nuanced. That is why I gave the profit warning that I am okay with investigating it, but that not only I, but also my entire group, will look critically at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u15	Of course, I understand that this is an assessment and that there are all kinds of degrees and shades of grey in an assessment of the extent to which it is at odds with the ECHR. But I fully understand Mr Recourt that we must listen very carefully to this kind of external conscience and that it also depends on whether we should continue on this track.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u16	Of course you should be properly informed. Then you have to weigh your own interests and make a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u17	Mr Recourt began by taking a number of stories out of life, where there was a problem, especially in making information available. Does he recognise the view of the Hoekstra Commission that the exchange of information is often a problem in practice, as well as the too close interpretation of the rules on professional secrecy? Does he recognise that problem and, if so, what does he think can or should change it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u18	I recognize the problem. I gave for a reason the example of the lady who sent that e-mail about her mother who worked in home care. She didn't get that information because it stayed with the professionals. That's what killed her. I want to say it more strongly: it cannot be done and it cannot be done. Something must be done about that. That's what I'm asking the Minister. The Hoekstra Committee has said that medical professional secrecy does not prevent participation in security houses. I hope the Minister will agree to that. Of course, we want to maintain that medical professional secrecy, which seems quite logical to me, but in a workable way and in a way that makes the Netherlands safer. I hope and expect that the ministers' answers will make an explicit assessment of what can and cannot be done, which will improve the information and protection not only of the profession itself, but also of professionals outside and caregivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u19	That's a clear answer. Does this also mean that Mr Recourt says that even in the security houses, much more than has been the case so far, information should be shared that is important to assess whether someone is a danger?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u20	Yes. It can't be like it sometimes was, namely that someone from the ggz says: I'm just here to get information and not bring it, because that concerns my medical professional secrecy. Again, it has to fit. You have an oath as a medic, and it's not for nothing. The search is for the border: what can and cannot be done? That limit is really farther than saying: I will not give you any information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u21	I'm gonna go back to the DNA sample. I think it is good to get the starting position of the PvdA group very sharply in the search that Mr Recourt and his group are making for the answer to the question of whether you should have DNA taken from insurance. I'd like to put the next question to him. When it comes down to it, does the PvdA opt for the possibility of exonerating an innocent person and the possibility of preventing violent crimes and sexual offences, or privacy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u22	You're sketching a contradiction I don't recognize. Innocent exonerating seems to me very good anyway. There is, of course, a trade-off on everything. You have to have optimal regulation, taking into account all the different interests. It's not a black-and-white weighing, as you seem to suggest. If it is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, you must look for something else. I think even the VVD agrees. In short, it's not black and white.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u23	I believe that the Hoekstra Committee has made a very comfortable statement on how this could relate to the European Court of Human Rights. Apart from that, you have just indicated in answer to questions that 20 to 30% of the current situation is unknown. The DNA is not included in the register, et cetera. This can potentially prevent a lot of suffering. That is why my question: if you are now faced with this choice, does the VVD choose to protect privacy, or rather to prevent very violent crimes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u24	I assume you're asking that question to the PvdA. You said VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u25	Did I say VVD? Excuse me. I mean the PvdA, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u26	Let me stress once again that it is not a black and white matter. There are also alternatives. It may well be that we are voting in favour, because we think that security is extremely important. You see how bad things could go wrong with that, I say with a small blow to the arm. We have also discussed alternatives with the Hoekstra Committee, for example to do it at the time of detention rather than at the time of insurance. For example, there are, of course, many possibilities for improving regulation in practice, without having to decide immediately between everything or nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u27	Mr Recourt rightly drew attention to the mistakes made by the Public Prosecutor's Office. I think he has also rightly asked the Minister about the possibilities and measures for improvement, which are really urgent. They cannot be within the current budget. We all read that in the report and heard it at the hearing. Do I understand that Mr Recourt is asking the Minister to clarify the budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u28	I would ask you to clarify the content of the measures now. The Hoekstra committee has said something about this, the Minister has written a letter about it and this debate is about it. The Minister writes in his letter that he has no insight into the costs. He doesn't know how high those are. This already makes it clear that the Minister is unable to provide any clarification on this matter. We don't have a lot of money to give to the D.A.'s office and say, "Solve it." There's a good chance we're gonna need money. I expect that too, and the DA himself says so. Then we will have to settle this in an orderly manner. The first time to do so is the budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u29	I understand that budgetary technique, of course, but do I understand that Mr Recourt says: what is urgent and needs to be improved urgently, should be done at the moment, in fact, since the report was issued? So not from today, but since last week. This can't wait until there's enough money. In short, it is about the improvements. They have to be implemented and what follows is what it costs. The Minister will have to do that at some point. Did I get that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u30	You got that right. Those improvements must also be put to good use. We first had the Schiedam park murder case, on which the D.A. made a very solid improvement. If you put the direction of care for confused people in the Public Prosecutor's Office, a similar improvement will have to be made. That costs human hours and energy and therefore money. It's gotta be quick. I would like to say one more sentence, Mr President. Because we are constantly talking about money and measures, I am not going to say that this is about human work. It is the work of people, of district agents and of everyone who works with it in daily practice. Not least, I would like to mention the families and the carers. I would like to encourage these people, especially those who have been victims of serious violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u31	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my condolences to the relatives, the Van U. and the Borst family, but also to other victims and relatives who, in part or in part, recognize themselves in the situation. People can be recognised in this by being victims of mistakes made by one of the organisations in the criminal justice chain. My group can very well imagine that there are more, similar cases, cases that we do not know about. How many there are is not known. But let us be clear; each case is one too many. I go back to the two cases discussed in the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Criminal Decisions Public Prosecutor's Office, the Hoekstra Committee. I would like to thank this committee for its research and for its report, which leaves nothing to be desired from the point of view of clarity. Let me list a number of observations from that report. Despite a legal obligation to do so, no DNA material will be collected from Van U. after his conviction for illegal possession of weapons on 29 March 2012. On 25 September 2012, Van U. is sentenced to three years in prison on appeal. An order for imprisonment was issued, but that order was not obeyed. In other words, Yours remained at large. The case is not registered as sensitive, despite the finding in the judgment that there is a serious threat to the security of society. In an attempt to get Van U. to go to prison, it turned out he was at sea. The request for international alert was not answered. Van U. reported to a police station and a prison stating that he did not vouch for himself and that he would "do something to others." The latter is a quote. He applied for prison time. From you, however, remains at large. After the second time Van U. reports to a police station, again with the announcement that he did not vouch for himself, it is thanks to Van U.'s family that he will be detained on 11 February 2014. Nevertheless, a request for an extension of the detention is rejected due to the lack of necessary information in the judicial registers. This brings Van U. back on his feet, and it stays that way. Most of these errors are borne by the Public Prosecutor's Office. The most striking thing is, of course, that Van U. should have been in prison for three years shortly after the conviction on 25 September 2012. Since Mrs. Borst was killed on 8 February 2014 and Van U's sister was found dead in her home on 10 January 2015, it can be concluded with certainty that both victims would still be alive if Van U. had been sentenced shortly after the verdict. For the defendant's sister, she could still be alive if the legal obligation to decrease DNA after the conviction had been fulfilled. I have to make the legal observation that Van U. has not yet been convicted of both life crimes, but in view of the fact that Van U.'s DNA material has been found at both crime scenes, I think I can make the observation just put forward. Apologies have been made by the state's attorney's office and by the minister. That's only right. Although of course this does not bring the victims back to us, I hope that the apologies will contribute to the processing process for both families. What can also contribute to this is that mistakes will be learned from them and that they will give rise to measures to prevent such errors in the near future. Both the Minister and the Public Prosecutor have indicated that they will adopt the recommendations of the Hoekstra Commission. One of the components is that there will be three legal pathways. As legal pathways always take time, a plan of action is being formulated to ensure that errors are avoided as much as possible in the meantime. My group does not think that this is enough. The Wet DNA investigation on convicts was already there, but that law has not been complied with. It is therefore a question of action or action. The same applies to court orders. They need to be followed. That is a matter of mentality, not of legislation. Why is the flight taken forward in the issue of DNA sampling by suggesting that DNA should already be taken from suspects? For it is clear that in only 20% to 30% of cases where DNA has to be taken from the convicted person, this actually happens. Convicts don't show up at the DNA consultation. There is a better solution, which I have mentioned before: an obligation to appear in court, where the verdict is pronounced. Then the person is convicted and present. I'm considering another motion on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u32	It is a good thing that the PVV is questioning the same point as my group, namely whether the law has been properly implemented in practice. The Hoekstra committee says that a lot of people are not coming at all. Even if there is an obligation to appear at the hearing, there will still be people who are untraceable or gone. From that point of view, you can say that the law can never be implemented optimally unless cheek mucus is removed at the beginning of insurance. What is the assessment of the PVV?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u33	That's the trade-off I just gave you. A suspect is innocent until proven guilty. Deduction of DNA, even if it is "only" cheek mucus, is an infringement. That must therefore be properly justified. I am not saying that if the Minister comes up with a bill to change DNA removal among convicted persons, we are not against it, but we certainly are not in favour of it. Let's make that very clear. You have to ask yourself whether the deficiencies identified by the Hoekstra Committee are resolved with a flight forward, namely by removing suspects' cheek mucus. Article 142 of the Law on the Judicial Organisation states literally: the Public Prosecutor's Office is responsible for the criminal enforcement of the legal order. In plain Dutch, this means that the D.A. must ensure the safety of society. The serious mistakes made in both cases do not give my group much confidence in the Public Prosecutor's Office, but there is a great, very urgent task to put things in order in order to prevent such mistakes in the future. Combined with the ever-increasing cuts in the Public Prosecutor's Office by this cabinet, my group therefore believes that the current President of the Public Prosecutor's Office is no longer the appropriate person to carry out the necessary mentality and policy changes, despite all good intentions and excuses.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u34	As Mrs Helder just did to Mr Recourt, I would now like to go back to the article in De Telegraaf this morning. It says that the PVV wants to transfer more money to the Public Prosecutor's Office. I assume it is right that the PVV was included in that list. But when I read the Hoekstra Committee's report, I also read that there are people who have not done their job. Of course, it's that flat. Does Mrs. Helder now think you're solving that problem with a bag of money?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u35	Mr Van Oosten quotes from an article in De Telegraaf. Apparently he did not read the second part of it, because it says: the House of Representatives is in favour of the proposal for DNA collection. So my group is not, let us be clear. That's what I just indicated in an interruption. A bag of money to the D.A.'s office? Then Mr Van Oosten has always listened badly to my group, so I am glad to be able to say it again. Several budgets ago, my group said that the rack is out of the public prosecutor's office, which was supported by the Galan Group's report. There's got to be a bag of money. There must also be a change of attitude, which I have just made clear. But it cannot be the case that more and more tasks and responsibilities are being created, while additional cuts are being made in the public prosecutor's office. Mr Van Oosten's group is simply in favour of this. My group has tabled two motions on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u36	The latter is known to me. But I refer specifically to the recommendations of the Hoekstra Committee and to the statements made by Mr Hoekstra himself in response to questions put to him by Mr Van Nispen at the hearing last Monday. Mr Van Nispen asked if it was realistic. Yes, the implementation of the recommendations was realistic. In addition, a lot needs to be done to ensure that people do their jobs. If people don't or don't do that properly, then tens or hundreds of millions won't solve anything, will they?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u37	I am not hiding behind the Hoekstra committee, as Mr Van Oosten does. Because his group is clearly cutting back on the state's attorney's office. My group can think for itself. The rack's out. It is true that there must be a change of attitude, but there must certainly be money. That is what my group stands for. Mr Van Oosten can guess which motion we are going to retable in the budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u38	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my condolences to the families affected. For them, the publication of this report with these harsh conclusions must have been another blow. This investigation shows that serious mistakes have been made by the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and the ggz. Error stacked on error. The report begins with the sad history of a person who gets confused, screams for help, but is not heard. Next, mistakes in the justice and care chain are converging. How is it that no DNA was taken when this should have happened? How is it possible for a convict to offer himself to prison and be sent away? How is it that someone screams for help, is seriously ill, but doesn't get the right help that was needed? Anything that could've gone wrong went wrong, too. That's indigestible. I note that both the Public Prosecutor's Office, by whom the biggest mistakes have been made, and the Minister under whose responsibility this has been done, go deep through the dust. There's been an apology. The errors are acknowledged. However, that is not what we are here with. We're not talking about this for the first time. Many problems have proved to be a long time ago. Some things are so bureaucratic and complicated that it must go horribly wrong from time to time. That is a very disturbing observation. Where is the awareness that these are people and not files that are being transferred to another person who is not responsible under the umpteenth protocol? The SP identifies this as a much broader problem in the public sector. People become protocols, files and numbers. The human size is out of sight. What is the government's reaction to this? I read many announcements of new laws in the Minister's response, but the urgency is too high to resolve this with legislative changes, which often take a long time. Besides, you can't solve this problem with just legislative changes. In the end, it's the people who do the work at the state's attorney's office, the police or in the care department. It is the people who must ensure that confused people receive the right help in time, that DNA is taken when we have agreed and that convicted people are in prison. How is the Minister going to enable those who do this important work to do it right and to do what is necessary? The organisations that have to do this important work, such as the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, have often said that there is not enough money for all priorities. This is particularly true now that they have to implement the recommendations of the Hoekstra Committee as a matter of urgency. That turned out to be very clear at the hearing. The necessary improvement measures cannot be possible within the current budget. I find the Minister's letter still unclear about this. How much extra money comes in when to do what it takes? Bart's family of yours has been worried for a long time. For years they asked for help for their son and brother, without any result. That's poignant to have to read. The SP has for a long time objected to the millions of savings at the ggz, which also has a waterbed effect. The police are getting more and more busy. The Committee of Inquiry also puts the finger on the sore spot, on the ggz and the inadequate connection between punishment and care. On the one hand, there is a strict mandate to reduce the number of beds and reduce the treatment time, the recording time. On the other hand, the ggz is expected to make an active contribution to the security of society and interference with confused persons. How worrisome is this? What are we gonna do about this? I ask the Minister, because I don't really read that back. What about the involvement of the probation and the role of the Security Houses in dealing with confused persons? When will people receive the help they need and the danger to society will be averted? These errors have been demonstrated by a thorough examination of one specific case. When you read the report, however, you don't get the impression that it's an incident, unfortunately. There are many shortcomings that can make this kind of mistake. How many more cases of this kind with mistakes are there, so suspects weren't picked up in time? How many more people ask or cry out for help or attention in vain? The SP wants an independent committee where people can report to investigate past cases and report unheard aid questions. This committee, I call it the Committee on Health and Safety, should function under the inspection of the Ministry of Security and Justice. It should last as long as necessary, i.e. until the current bottlenecks are resolved. In the end, of course, it is a matter of improving the functioning and cooperation of the prosecution, the police and the ggz. I would like a comprehensive response to this proposal. Finally, let us not say now: we are doing what is stated in this report and we are moving on to the order of the day. It's not about files and protocols, it's about people who need help. Give the professionals the space to offer that help and do what is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u39	I listened with interest to Mr Van Nispen's suggestion for a committee on safety and care. However, I also took note last night of the rather comprehensive approach taken by the VWS Minister. To what extent does Mr Van Nispen's plan relate to this plan of approach which has been sent to us? In other words, is that approach already broadly what he wants or do I not see it correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u40	I thank Mr Van Oosten for this question. Indeed, in the Minister's letter, I read that there will be hunting teams. This overlaps somewhat with my proposal, but my proposal goes a little further. The chase teams proposed by the Minister will also identify the problems and bottlenecks and ensure that solutions are found and that the parliament and ministries are told what is going wrong. We can then act immediately on that and make new proposals. The proposal I am making is based on that, but it goes on. It is also aimed at getting reports from people who do not receive the help they need or family members in emergency situations. Thirdly, the committee I propose also has the task of investigating old cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u41	Perhaps it is a suggestion to the extent that Mr Van Nispen has not already done so, to ask the Minister of VWS for a brief reflection on his idea. I have a lot of questions, last but not least because I don't need to create bureaucracy. In addition, I read in the letter from the Minister of Security and Justice that, to the extent that people have questions about past routes and so on, they can, of course, report to the police and that all the competent authorities naturally take up the responsibility that has been taken up sadly and insufficiently in the case that gave rise to this debate this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u42	That's a fair question. The committee I am proposing is precisely that the two separate worlds that have existed for as long as I can remember, but I am not yet so old as to be brought together in one committee. The problems of connection between punishment and care have existed for a very long time and it is tough to bring them together. That is why it is important to put this together in one committee for once. I propose that this be placed at the inspection of the Ministry of Security and Justice precisely in order to approach it on that side, on the threat side. I see a number of tasks for the committee. In the Minister's letter, I read a lead. I like these hunting teams, but as far as I am concerned we are going a step further. I suggest we put this in the Ministry of Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u43	The SP Group is right to point the finger at the good communication between care and security. Mr Van Nispen also raised the question of whether the ggz has enough money. Doesn't this report also show that sometimes the point is that the information from the world of criminal law is not known in the care domain? Now take the last case: the BOPZ action dismissed by the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u44	That is a valid point, but I have not been able to mention it in my contribution. I read in the report that it goes both ways. The information of justice is not always available in the right place in the care and the information about care or about confused persons does not always reach the police and the justice system. The problem is not always the obligation of secrecy. We heard during the hearing that the interpretation of the obligation of confidentiality and its interpretation in practice call for a clearer approach so that people in the workplace know what information they may and may not exchange.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u45	That's true. It has indeed been said that much more can be done and that it is now being dealt with too rigidly. But honestly, I heard that five years ago and ten years ago. How can we be sure that things will be better tomorrow and the day after tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u46	That is a very difficult question for me to answer. Because I have the same question. However, I believe that a committee such as myself can also identify such bottlenecks if it receives signals that there are still obstacles in practice or if there are still professionals who do not know what information they should and should not exchange. I am not saying that this is the only thing and that it can only be resolved then, but from today's date, and actually from last week's onwards, information needs to be exchanged where it can and where it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u47	Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group thanks the Hoekstra Committee for the thorough investigation into the Bart van U. The D66 Group has been deeply affected by the committee's conclusions. The idea that the death of Els Borst and of Loïs, Van U's sister, might have been prevented, is for D66 of an unprecedented and penetrating hardness. Our thoughts and deepest sympathy go out to both families of this intensely sad drama. A succession of mistakes kept a man in mental distress who was able to do the worst, on the street instead of behind bars or in the aid: the judicial file was fragmented in the system and important information was missing and a district agent who is deprived of crucial partners but himself calls the Advocate General and asks for an arrest team. Unacceptable! The district cop cannot and should not be alone in the police organisation at those moments. And then the ggz that Van U. didn't pick up while he himself indicated that he was in serious psychological distress. At crucial times when action could and should be taken, the prosecution, the police and the ggz did not have access to necessary information or to each other. This isn't an incident. Yours isn't the only convict who's been out there while the judge's in jail. He's not the only convict who hasn't taken any DNA material, but he has to. And he's not the only seriously confused person sent away by authorities, while there's serious psychological distress. The conclusions of the Hoekstra Committee make it painfully clear that something is structurally wrong in the safety and care chain. No apparent effectiveness, but structural improvement is needed to avoid repetition of these errors. First of all, the 12,000 convicts who don't serve their time in prison. The Minister shall be responsible for the execution of penalties. So I ask him when those 12,000 people are in jail. The Hoekstra Committee proposes to amend the law and to take DNA from suspects. D66 proposes that the Minister ensure that the existing law is simply implemented, not as soon as possible after the conviction, but immediately in the courtroom remove cheek glue. Is the minister gonna take care of that today? 60,000 confused people are in the crosshairs of justice. A closing chain approach of confused persons and convicted persons is necessary. This can only be done with clear guidance, dossier responsibility, decision-making power and workable ICT. So who's in charge now? The Minister of V and J says that the Public Prosecutor has it, but the Minister of VWS says that the direction lies with the municipalities. That's not possible. The direction must be central and effective if there is a serious danger. The Public Prosecutor's Office is obvious, but the Minister must now organise not only statements but above all statements in this way. The municipality, the police and the ggz must be able to ensure that the prosecutor is available, that the judicial file is in order, that alerts and registration are made, that a BOPZ prosecutor is appointed and that the prosecutor is present in the security houses as a partner. The police organisation cannot continue to spend 20% of police time on confused persons. This really needs to be organized differently: at the district level, with the ggz included. That's why I'm addressing the U.S. Secretary of State. It is not enough for the Minister to call on all parties to get to work or to point to the municipalities; that is a backward attitude that does not fit here. What does the Minister of VWS do about it so that the ggz can hook up in the chain? D66 says: Simplify access to mental care; remove unnecessary bureaucracy that leaves confused persons outside the necessary care; rule day and night crisis care; intensify the social district team on early alert; ensure that district agents and family members can use their signals; make sure that the ggz sits at the table at each security house; and do not wait until 2018, but come with an emergency measure this summer that allows for forced care. Structural solutions mean that capacity and budget must also be considered. Since 2004, the justice chain has been cut. A quarter of the OM budget is deleted. We're warning you all the time. This is not sustainable. The bald blow is taking its toll now. The Hoekstra report provides proof of this: quality, capacity and knowledge. Stop the abort, start investing. Are we going to see that again on Prince's Day, Minister? The mistakes are rude. The responsibility is great. The Minister for Security and Justice cannot hide behind the organisations that have seriously failed. He's politically responsible. As far as we are concerned, the previous Minister of V and J should have drawn the conclusion on the basis of this staggering report himself to resign. We will not ask that of this newly-appointed minister, but let it be absolutely clear that on his shoulders there is now the greatest possible responsibility for resolving all the shortcomings, together with the Minister of the United States of America. They cannot afford to delay or to be half-hearted. D66 wants to see a concrete roadmap this summer. We ask the Minister to report to the Chamber as early as 1 November on the actions taken and their effects, and to ask the Hoekstra Committee to check in early 2016 whether all the measures taken have worked. The confidence of society in security, justice and care has been damaged. The Minister will have to do everything in his power to restore that confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u48	Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group was shocked by the harsh conclusions in the Hoekstra report. It is a terrible idea for the relatives and friends of both Mrs Borst and Mrs Van U. that the death of Mrs Borst and Van U.'s sister could have been prevented, simply by applying the rules in force: by taking Van U. as a result of the court order and by taking care of a DNA sample earlier. So much for my introduction. I shall begin with a number of questions to the US Secretary of State, given the system of responsibility which our group believes she has. I thank her for sending yesterday the letter on the handling of confused persons which the Chamber had asked for. However, it has only been since the last few months that the Minister has given priority to this plan, while the House of Representatives, with the CDA Group in the lead, called for action at the end of last year. I therefore ask the Minister: why has she not come up with a plan of action before? The CDA Group wants to know to what extent the Minister was already aware of the problems encountered by aid workers in connection with the Van U case. Was she aware of the lack of exchange between the Public Prosecutor and all the agencies involved in helping Van U.? And if so, when? Was she aware of the extent to which the signals of family were ignored? Was she aware of the need to improve the role of ggz within the Security Houses? How does she intend to organise this role of the ggz within the Security Houses? What is the relationship between the minister and the chasing team mentioned in the letter? What about sharing confidential information from the chasing team? Does the Minister recognise that she herself is responsible for the system? How's she gonna do it? How's she gonna fill it out? In her letter, the Minister states that we must be realistic about the extent to which we can impose care on people who refuse to do so and who do not commit offences or cause little or no nuisance. The CDA Group wants to know how this view relates to the clear recommendations in the Hoekstra report on the mandatory care that should be provided, even if confused people do not want it. There's a vacuum over there. Is it prepared to speed up the legislative proposal for mandatory ggz and to make every effort to establish an interim regime? When can that be arranged? The CDA Group has also taken note with great interest of the proposed time-out procedure. The Minister seems to have some doubts about it in her letter. Is that right? Why is that? If she does find it a good idea, can she develop the idea as soon as possible? Then I come to my questions to the Minister of Security and Justice. The Minister of Security and Justice has indicated that he will adopt all recommendations. That does raise the following, more general question. The legislative machine of V and J has been operating very slowly over the past two years. Proposals are often on the table for months and sometimes we even have to wait a year for the House to deal with them. Can the Minister promise that this is not the case with this important bill on DNA collection in insurance? The CDA Group is concerned that the Minister seems to want to wait for some sort of privacy impact. Is he willing to speed up the bill? The Minister also stated that he was concerned about the ECHR. Mr Recourt just mentioned that. Can the Minister indicate how other Member States use this space in the field of DNA collection? How's it going abroad? It has been announced that all persons who have not received a DNA warrant from 1 May 2010 will still be called up. It concerns both the 10,765 people without an address "How will the Minister arrange this? As the 1,765 persons whose address is known. That must be a piece of cake. It is precisely the number of people without an address that calls for this DNA collection, as Hoekstra proposes, to be arranged at the earliest possible stage, namely at insurance. How does the Minister view this? The Hoekstra Committee has described the way in which the D.A. handles the DNA sample. That is what happens within so-called DNA blocks. Those are administrative units at every state's attorney's office. That is where DNA tasks take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u49	I have heard several colleagues speak about it and now I would like to put a question to Mr Oskam. If, at the earliest possible stage, DNA is collected from an insured suspect, who's going to assure us that he'll come forward when he's convicted?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u50	That DNA sample will take place at the insurance company. Then that's what you've got. However, I believe that this must be surrounded by guarantees, that it can only be used and introduced when a person has been irrevocably convicted. That's beyond a shadow of a doubt. Whether or not he shows up is of a different order. It's about getting that database filled up and finding out who's involved afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u51	So you've got DNA, but you don't have the convict. I would remind Mr Oskam that 12,000 convicts are free. He is always so strong on behalf of his group that they need to be tracked down. So I don't understand this. Is Mr Oskam, and with him the CDA Group, in favour of an appearance at the hearing where the verdict is pronounced?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u52	Those are all questions mixed up. It's two different things. DNA extraction is for the detection of criminal offences. I have taken a clear position on this, namely that this must be done at the time of insurance. I, like Mr Recourt, have been thinking about whether it should be done at another time, but I think it should be done at the time of insurance. In this respect, I am also convinced by the comments made by Mr De Wit at the hearing last Monday. That's one. The other point, which both the PVV and the CDA are concerned about, is that people who have been prosecuted in criminal terms must serve their sentence. So it must also be executed. However, these matters are separate from each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u53	Mr van Oosten, this will be your fourth interruption in this debate. I didn't set a limit, but I'll let you know that you're starting your fourth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u54	It's almost legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u55	I am going to restrict myself very much after this interruption, but I did not want to leave it. How much does Mr Oskam, the CDA Group, attach to the privacy impact analysis proposed by the Minister in a law to take DNA from insurance?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u56	It's always a trade-off. There's got to be a balance between privacy and tracking. I do think that we have now collected enough examples in the course of the case law where it went wrong, where we did not have the data. I've been thinking a lot about it and I agree with Hoekstra's proposal to do it at insurance. Then you have people who meet the legal criterion. People will be physically present. It's a minor procedure. If you're gonna surround it with guarantees, it's really not gonna bother anyone. So, as far as I'm concerned, the balance in this case would go more astray.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u57	That's clear to me. However, I note that, according to the CDA Group in the House of Representatives, the Franken motion, which has been adopted in the First Chamber and which obliges us to come to such an impact analysis each time, may be a little more flexible than it has been until recently. At least that idea existed with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u58	I think we should look at it by law. In this case, I'm very much in favour of the DNA collection at the insurance company.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u59	What surprises me is this. The Wet DNA investigation of convicts was adopted not so long ago by the Lower House and the Upper House. This bill was passed unanimously. The law has been in force for a few years now and it is not being handled properly, because apparently there is too little execution capacity deployed by the police and the prosecution does not record properly that people need to be called in to take down cheek slime. Why should we have a different law now, when the current law is not being properly applied?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u60	In my view, there is no contradiction between the position of the D66 Group and that of the CDA Group. That other law simply needs to be properly applied. There's no question about that. Another point is that we keep running into people being released, people disappearing, not appearing in court at the hearing, but also not joining the police when DNA is needed. If things go wrong so often, I think: what solution would everyone do right and make sure that people who do nothing wrong have little problem with it? That is why, in my opinion, it is fine to do the reduction in insurance when people are suspected of a crime involving pre-trial detention and physical presence in the police. Then why wait longer when you know people don't serve their sentences and don't want to go to court? If we were to wait for the judge to pass a judgment and only take the DNA in court, then I think people are definitely not gonna show up in court, because their lawyer says, "You run the risk of giving up your DNA."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u61	I hear all these assumptions, lots of assumptions, but I don't hear numbers, no numbers. There is indeed a substantial difference. In the case of insurance, there is still a suspect and not a convicted person. That is an explicit distinction in our rule of law, isn't it? Mr. Oskam knows all about that, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u62	I know all about that, yes. The use of coercive measures is also permitted for suspects. That's what you can see, for example, when you take a blood test when people have been driving drunk. At a time like this, people are still suspects and coercive measures are being applied. If you state that the Hoekstra Committee is in favour of this, and I understand that the Minister is also in favour of it, then it will eventually be simply destroyed at the time someone is acquitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u63	It seems that the CDA Group has already made a choice, while the Minister says that there is still a privacy impact analysis to be made and that he is not quite out of it yet. Several groups here say that we should listen carefully to, for example, the College's protection of personal data. Do those sounds and voices still have any weight for the CDA group?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u64	It's important that that happens, but we're in a hurry. As far as I am concerned, there will soon be an interim arrangement. It's fine to ask for advice from privacy organisations and to listen to what the College's protection of personal data thinks of it, but as I look at it now, I am in favour of DNA collection at insurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u65	If an analysis or the opinion of the CBP shows that it is at odds with or at least very exciting in relation to Article 8 of the ECHR, how much does it weigh for the CDA Group? Does she want to continue with this idea on the left or right, or does she want to be contradicted in that very difficult balance between detection, privacy and other values?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u66	We weigh everything, so I'd like that advice, but as soon as possible. That is why I call on the Minister to speed this up. I would have stayed with the DNA blocks. In 2012, the College of Attorneys General already established a business case describing the problems. The lead times were bizarrely long: it took on average about 29 weeks from the reduction of DNA to the inclusion in the database. There were too few staff and different methods per district. Was the minister aware of this business case? Why didn't he discuss the problems with the Chamber before? In fact, in February 2013, for the first time, the Minister spoke to the College of Attorneys General about an alternative method, namely the possibility of taking DNA from insurance. Then it came on the table for the first time; it didn't just come out of the box of the Hoekstra Committee. It was proposed that the Wet DNA study should be adapted in the longer term for convicts. Why didn't the Minister pick up this glove at the time? The situation at the D.A.'s office is illustrative for this case. At some point, the D.A. has made a search back to restore established facts in August 2013 with regard to DNA collection. However, this search was limited to 1 January 2013. No further enquiries were made until 1 January 2012 or even 1 May 2010, which has been decided by the Minister. Why wasn't this choice made at the time? Why has the College of Attorneys General not been involved in the selection of this limited search until 1 January 2013 and why has it not also been informed of the duration of the recovery operation, which took more than a year? The Hoekstra Committee's conclusion on the search is very painful. Hoekstra says that this has been abandoned due to capacity problems and expected objection procedures. Can the Minister confirm these reasons back then? It brings the CDA to the state's financial records of the Public Prosecutor's Office. What are the implications of adopting all recommendations for the budget of the Public Prosecutor and other chain partners? In the letter from the Public Prosecutor's Office, the sighs about the dozens of changes that the public prosecutor has been and still has to deal with in recent years. Around 100 new legislative and regulatory changes are expected, while on balance, savings are still being made in the Public Prosecutor's Office. There is a reduction in budgets of 25% to more than 130 million. How does the Minister see this, whether indirectly or indirectly, linked to the workload at the Public Prosecutor's Office?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u67	Mr. Chairman. We are discussing the findings of the Hoekstra Committee today. The conclusions of the report are shocking and particularly painful for the next of kin. It fits in with this debate to once again express our deepest sympathy to the relatives who are confronted with the most horrific thing you can imagine. Before I come to the discussion of the recommendations, I would like to draw the attention of both directors to the following. The Hoekstra Committee's report has been drawn up on the basis of the way in which various bodies have dealt with suspect Bart van U. However, I am particularly concerned about the extent to which this case is exemplary for more. Are there any more convicted persons with serious psychiatric problems who haven't given up any DNA material? How many convicted people with serious psychiatric problems are out there when they should be locked up? It is wise that both the Minister and the Public Prosecutor have indicated that they take the recommendations seriously and are going to take them up. The letter is clear about that. Given the more than terrible conclusions drawn in the report, I call on the Minister to make no mistake in his reply that he is really taking everything out of the box to ensure that the recommendations are complied with. The President of the College of Attorney General, Mr Bolhaar, says that this means that systemic issues are being addressed. It means a linking of ICT, a reduction of DNA, and I will come back to that in a moment and strengthen the provision of information between agencies. However, you can still arrange it so well on paper, if it is not complied with, it will still go horribly wrong. That's exactly what I'm most worried about. How does the Minister view this? What is the Minister of Security and Justice going to do to ensure that everyone in the Public Prosecutor's Office, from high to low within the criminal justice chain, takes full responsibility for the handling of cases? How do we prevent a district agent, who, so to speak, is not being heard at the gate, and who may not have acted in the end, when there could have been action? That neighborhood cop knows his pappenheimers and knows the neighborhood. What are we going to do to further strengthen the involvement of attorney general and prosecutors? What are we going to do with the learning ability of the organization? When we spoke to the members of the Hoekstra committee last Monday, we were talking about an evaluation. If an officer's demand is much lower than the judge's ruling and an order for imprisonment is being issued, is it not remarkable that there is no closer examination of how that happened? I miss that learning ability. I urge the Minister to make a full commitment to a law that allows DNA collection in insurance. I also demand that everything possible be done to take DNA immediately after a conviction, as proposed by the Committee, and that falsely not collected DNA is taken. Because, after all, I have just indicated it in an interrupting debate, and for me, the protection of the interests of future victims is paramount. I'd like the Minister to make a big deal out of it. I have another question for the Minister. I understand from his letter that new investments are needed. I have to tell you, I think that's too vague. What exactly are we talking about? I want the Minister to be more specific about this. What additional tasks are now expected from the Public Prosecutor's Office? What does that do with the public prosecutor's budget? How does it relate to the mission, how does it relate to its acceptance? How are they going to relate to further financial proposals that come from the plan of approach confused persons? I really want to get that sharper.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u68	Mr Van Oosten has just raised the question of the learning capacity of the organisations that have made these mistakes. I think that's a fair question. However, I would also like to put the question to Mr van Oosten. What about the learning ability of the VVD fraction? What is Mr Van Oosten's view of the problem which the Hoekstra committee is also exposing? On the one hand there are years of bed reduction and millions of savings on the ggz and on the other we are asking more and more of that organization. The Hoekstra Committee will report the same to the D.A.'s office. We ask a great deal of that organization, but the prosecution lacks the financial resources to do what is necessary. How does Mr Van Oosten view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u69	We are asking a great deal of the D.A.'s office, and I think we should do the same. Mr Bolhaar indicated, in response to questions from myself, that the Public Prosecutor's Office is currently operating on full steam. That means people are working their asses off there. I have every respect for that. I have just indicated in an interrupting debate that if work is not done properly while it is well arranged on paper, this does not mean that a bag of money has to be put aside. That is why I asked the Minister what additional tasks are coming to us. What additional work should be done by the Public Prosecutor's Office? I want that clear. I want that sharp, sharper than I've had it so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u70	So this is where things go wrong. Mr Van Oosten says that we have done well on paper, but it does not seem to happen. Then Mr Van Oosten must also ask the question: why is this not happening? Are those organisations and the people who have to do the important work able to do what is necessary? He can, of course, tell the Minister that he wants it to be sharper, but he has also been at the hearing where the Public Prosecutor said: if we are going to do what is necessary and want to implement those improvement measures with the utmost urgency, then we cannot do so within the existing budget. That's what Mr Van Oosten heard, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u71	What I have heard is that, among other things, Mr Bolhaar has indicated that there are a number of dossiers which deserve further consideration. That's what he said on questions from my side. I am not running away from this discussion at all, quite the contrary. I just want to make it clear what we're talking about. So that doesn't mean you have to put a bag of money next to it. That means you need to know exactly what we're talking about, what this is about, where it's going and what it needs to be. That's exactly what I read in the Minister's letter. I want that clear. That is also the task that we, as Members of Parliament, have to hear from the Minister exactly where these problems lie. He has to tell us. I'm just asking him that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u72	I wonder where the VVD has been in recent years when it comes to the cuts in the Public Prosecutor's Office and the consequences these cuts have had. I have asked Mr Bolhaar whether this can be done from the existing budget. He replied quite clearly that that is not possible. In his letter, the Minister leaves a little in the middle whether or not he wants to make a financial adjustment to implement those recommendations. But how does the VVD stand in this discussion? There's been cuts at the D.A.'s office since 2004. We see all kinds of tasks that prosecutors themselves have to do, because the administrative support has disappeared. Those are signals, aren't they? It must also be clear to the VVD that it will stop at some point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u73	I think I've been perfectly clear. We can set up whole trees on the policy of the Public Prosecutor's Office in recent years, but I think it is more important that we confine ourselves to the recommendations made by the Hoekstra Commission. The question has been asked, also to the Hoekstra Committee itself, whether it is realistic to implement it. Yes. That question was also put to the D.A.'s office. Can you move on with this? We read that in the letter from the D.A.'s office. Yes. Are there things to think about? That was a question I asked in response to the profit warning given by the Attorney General himself. Yes, of course there are complicated things. It is precisely for this reason that I would like to say otherwise that I cannot do my job properly, because the Minister knows exactly what we are talking about, what we are talking about, what amounts we are talking about, etc. However, I am not the one who says in the front: I will give you a bag of money, a blank cheque. I think that's too easy and too fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u74	Now it's really breaking my clog. Nobody's asking for a bag of money. In recent years, we have been fighting for a reduction in the discount on the Public Prosecutor's Office in budgetary treatment. 26% of the budget has been taken. What organisation can cope with this while maintaining quality and expertise? No one can do that, but the VVD just wants to hear from the minister if they're gonna get out. What does Mr Van Oost think of ICT if it is put in order? How much will that cost?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u75	I can also put that question to Mrs Berndsen. Nobody's talking about a bag of money. She herself speaks, for example in the article we have just discussed a number of times, about making a bag of extra money available to the Public Prosecutor. I believe that the Chamber can only do its job if we know what we are talking about. Mrs Berndsen is now raising the issue of ICT. ICT needs to be better, IT needs to be better linked, but we don't yet know how and what exactly? That is precisely why we hired the Minister, and that is why I want him to tell us exactly what we are talking about. That's what I think is relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u76	I would also point out that Mr Van Oosten is always talking about a bag of extra money. Mr Van Oosten now says that he has not spoken of a bag of money, but if we give him a dime in this debate for every time he has done so, he can now buy ice cream. That might be nice with this warm weather. In my motion, I am literally being asked not to allow the additional austerity to continue. I find it very silly that the VVD Group is hiding behind what Mr Bolhaar has said. He said in several annual reports that the rack is out. In the 2014 annual report, he gives a profit warning. Why doesn't the VVD group read between the lines that it can't go on like this? Can Mr van Oosten say that the VVD Group will at least argue that the extra cut in the budget is not going to happen even if it is not going to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u77	Mrs Helder knows the answer I'm going to give. We cannot afford, as legal spokesmen, simply to take out the subject of the Public Prosecutor's Office and make it the most important issue in our country. When the cabinet came into office, we had a very large financial task that extends far beyond the funds that deal with the Ministry of Security and Justice. It's hurt everywhere, in a lot of places, and it still hurts. But we have to finish it, otherwise it will hurt again. So the answer to Mrs Helder's question is no. We must take responsibility for a good financial household book, how faint and unkind this may sound in Mrs Helder's ears.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u78	Mr van Oosten talks about the household booklet, but I do not think that the safety of society should be tied to a price. That is what the VVD said in Mr Rutte's speech during the election time, but that seems to be out of the question. My group has been concerned about the prisons. Other colleagues have also been concerned about this. Eventually an old sock was found on the ministry, which allowed some prisons to remain open. So it's possible. I am giving Mr Van Oosten a last chance to look not only at the Public Prosecutor's Office but at the whole chain and to ask the Minister if there might be a small old sock in the Ministry that could be used for a little bit of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u79	This is what I'm talking about. In other debates, I dared to draw the conclusion that we share one ambition, namely that the Netherlands should become even safer where possible. However, I do think that you should give an honest answer to the question of how to finance it and whether it is necessary to bring extra money somewhere. I think it is important, therefore, that my expensive duty to hear from the Minister exactly what we are talking about, what we are going to do with the money, whether it is necessary or whether it is possible to do otherwise. Otherwise, it tends to be a blank check. That's what I think I'm gonna say again and then I'm gonna stop too easily and too quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u80	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u81	I have half a minute to speak and I am using it to put a question to the Minister for Health. This week, the Chambers Committee spoke, among other things, with the head of the IGZ, the Health Inspectorate. This head was able to tell us that the ggz, still crucial in dealing with confused persons, does not always fit into the Safety House by default. As far as my group is concerned, this has to be changed. Shouldn't we just agree that the ggz should just be there? That's where the information is shared. When it comes to secrecy, I find the Minister's letter a little cautious: 'We need to look at whether there are any obstacles'. Well, the head of the IGZ was quite sure: secrecy is not in the way of crucial information sharing. You sometimes have to have an abstraction level higher in the way of communication, but it can and must. The legislative proposals on the mandatory ggz should be sent to the Chamber as soon as possible. I'd like to receive a timetable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u82	Madam President. The thorough report by the Hoekstra Committee, which was presented last week, has been called a hard report. I have spelled it carefully over the last few days and have come to the conclusion that it is not really hard at all. The words are extremely sober. It's not filled with heavy words, but it actually tells, with great accuracy, what happened. Hard is the truth itself. It is incredibly painful, poignant and sad that so much has gone wrong: the DNA removal that had to be taken from the law, but did not happen, the imprisonment which the court had ordered, but which did not take place, while the one who was involved, as it were, offered himself on a plate, the necessary mental health care, which the family so insisted upon, remained out. In our thoughts and prayers we heartily sympathize with the family of Loïs and of Mrs Borst. With some hesitation, I say that, because I knew both Loïs and Mrs Borst personally, I once again realize how great the grief about the loss of a loved one is. Their memory, and also the memory of other people whom we do not know or have met by name, but who are equally dear to our hearts, cannot be better honored in the political debate than by putting everything on everything and continuing to avoid repeating such mistakes. The Minister for Security and Justice, on behalf of his colleague from Health, quickly responded to the recommendation of the report. Last night we received an additional response from the Minister of Health. That's a confidence-building first step. There is no doubt that we are going to talk about the development of all kinds of measures, and this is now really a first major debate, but we can support that main line of the recommendations, including the question of DNA loss in insurance. I would like to make a few comments. How come there's no record of anyone reporting themselves to serve his sentence? Does that apply in many other cases? At least as important is a clear central registration of those who still have to be punished. The alignment between the ggz and the Security House appears to be poor, especially for people who refuse care and do not yet commit criminal offences. The role of medical professional secrecy must be taken into account in order to make this coordination more effective. We received a letter on this from the Minister of Health with a factsheet of medical professional secrecy, but frankly I found that very limited. There is only room for information sharing in very exceptional circumstances. That's very strict. You'll be back as an aid worker very soon to tell me something about a patient. On the other hand, there is often a very strong appeal to professional secrecy towards the family. Even if family has essential information, this is sometimes not sufficiently taken into account. How can we put the network, the environment, the carers in a better position? When it comes to the exchange of information between care and security, my question to the rulers is to quickly identify the unnecessary obstacles to the exchange of information. Do they want to work to remove these thresholds as quickly as possible? To be honest, I found the motto of the Hoekstra Committee in the report to be very fundamental, namely to be careful but not too rigid in dealing with this professional secrecy. To implement all the recommendations vigorously, people and resources are needed. Again and again, the Public Prosecutor's Office is called upon. The Hoekstra report talks about the paradox of higher demands and less and less financial resources. Additional money is needed for the proper implementation of the recommendations. We call on the Cabinet to make it financially possible to implement the improvement programme. Finally, I would like to point out that it is crucial to keep pace with the implementation of the recommendations. Now I taste a lot of urgency and there was and is a lot of commotion, but experience has shown that urgency and speed in the work of the recommendations can be compromised if all of this has come down and all kinds of other things come out. That is why I would like to put the question to you as to whether it is possible to clarify very quickly when something is going to happen. I call for a clear action programme with concrete deadlines. The SGP is highly motivated to ensure that fine words are actually translated into real deeds. I feel that as a duty of honor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u83	Mr. Chairman. The Hoekstra report shows that two people no longer live through a series of painful mistakes. If the D.A., the police and the ggz had done their job well, this great drama probably wouldn't have happened. I won't name all these mistakes. There are too many for my brief speaking time. It is also much more of a system problem. There is no sharpness and the current legal instruments are being misused. I have worked with the police myself for 30 years and have seen with my own eyes how seriously confused people were sent away from the police stations. Often, agents of good will, but it is the psychiatrists who send these people back on the streets. Bart van U. was also dismissed while reporting to the police station to serve his time in prison. The Minister now wants to close half of these police stations, the place where confused people turn. That's a mischief. How is it possible that criminals are convicted in the Netherlands, but they simply do not serve their sentence? From you. got three years in prison, but could just take a job on a ship and sail to the sea. In our country, even more than 12,000 law-breakers are out there, when they should have been in prison. Explain that to the victims. The solution is to implement penalties immediately after the conviction and the introduction of an obligation to appear. If a sentence is enforced, a suspect must be required to be present in the courtroom and then escorted to prison immediately. Where MP Van der Steur was in favour of this announcement and even tabled a motion in 2013, Minister Van der Steur is against it. It's too absurd for words. The Minister is now moving towards a horse's medal rather than sensible measures. Also suspects who have not yet been convicted should be DNA samples. Instead, the Minister must provide much more police capacity, stop the cuts on the prosecutor and get the broom through the Justice Summit. Exit for Bolhaar and Bouman. They have seriously failed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u84	Mr. Chairman. This debate is a political debate and it will soon be a debate on the Public Prosecutor's Office, on the issue of DNA and on the functioning of the police. However, this debate is for everything also a debate on personal tragedies. It is precisely in these days that the thoughts and prayers of my group are with the two families that have hit this so hard. I would like to thank the Minister for Security and Justice for the way in which he expressed this in his letter on behalf of the cabinet. He has spoken warm words and has taken full responsibility and apologized, also in a personal sense. I appreciate that very much. You don't have to make a circumstantial move with ifs and buts, but you have to take full responsibility for it, and he did. I'd like to thank him for that. However, the Hoekstra Committee's report is unheard of. An orchestra of alarm bells went off around Bart of You, and there's only one question that arises: how could things go so terribly wrong? How come the signals from Bart's family of yours have never been taken seriously? How can it be that of you?His own request to serve his sentence was ignored? How is it that an email from an alert and persistent district agent to the Advocate General about an international alert was never answered? How can it be that when Van U. reported to the police on his own initiative in 2014 the ggz ruled that he was not a danger to himself and to his surroundings? The questions are on your mind in this case. In addition, the right must continue to be exercised in this respect. In this debate, I would like to know from the Minister for Security and Justice whether he believes that this is an unfortunate coincidence or a fundamental problem in the care and criminal justice chain around confused persons. Can he report that? Is he confident that he will be able to put the situation in order in the very short term? The Hoekstra Committee makes important recommendations in order to ensure that this will not happen again in the future. I have a number of comments to make. I'll start with the directional role. The Van U. family isn't on its own. In January, the General Dagblad read the story of a certain Greet, who literally said: "Bart of You. could have been my son." Greet called her child dangerous and said she didn't know where to go with her concerns. I'm very worried about that. Is it clear from the Hoekstra Committee on family members of confused persons where and to whom they can deal with their concerns? Is there a role for the mayor here, precisely because not everything is criminal law and in the short term if there is any uncertainty? I would like to hear a response on this point. The Committee sees a major role for the Public Prosecutor's Office to take the lead around confused persons. However, a lot went wrong in this case, especially with the D.A.'s office. I also had to remember the very critical report of the General Court of Auditors: Performance in the criminal justice chain from 2012. Is the Public Prosecutor at the moment able to take the lead in the approach? Is it desirable that this approach should go completely into criminal law? What steps is the Minister going to take to put things in order with the D.A.'s office? How does the role of the D.A.'s office relate to the pursuit teams as proposed by the US Secretary of State? Then there's the capacity problem. The Hoekstra Committee notes that, in the opinion of the police, too many confused persons return to the streets. By the way, I find it very shocking that Chief Bouman said that 20% of the capacity of the police goes on to worry about confused people. That seems to be quite a problem. He blames the fact that so many people end up in the street because of the lack of capacity in the ggz. How is that possible, I ask the US Secretary of State. What is it going to do to solve this capacity problem and promote an integrated approach? Shouldn't the ggz sit at every safety house at the table? If that is indeed the intention, as I understood from the letter, at what time is that actually the case? In what way will the family be involved? Is it not also very beneficial in this area, especially now that Wvggz is being adapted by means of a letter of amendment, to look at the self-power conferences as a means of involving the family and giving a role? Then I'm gonna get to the DNA sample point. The Hoekstra Committee is proposing to take DNA before anyone is convicted. My group has serious doubts about this, although we understand that it represents a practical improvement. However, I am not convinced that this can be accepted in the light of Article 8 of the ECHR. That article is precisely trying to protect citizens from an overly eager government. What are the guarantees in this new procedure? The same applies to the question whether everything has been done to simplify and improve the DNA collection immediately after the conviction. Now 20% to 30% doesn't give DNA. I want to know exactly how this can be done and whether there is not much more to improve in the current legislation. In other words, are the current legal possibilities inadequate? Or is there a capacity problem and a lax execution? Finally, I come to the enforcement of penalties. Even begging Van U. didn't go to jail. In how many cases is a sentence not served or has a suspect disappeared after conviction?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u85	This brought an end to the first term of the Chamber. The Ministers indicated their willingness to prepare themselves for their reply. I shall suspend the sitting until 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u86	Mr. Chairman. Anyone who has heard the first term of the Chamber understands that I am here as Minister of Security and Justice with lead in front of you. The Hoekstra report tells a tragic story about mistakes that have been made and caused suffering. There is a heavy responsibility, not only on me, but also on all the organisations mentioned in the report, to prevent those mistakes in the future. For the past, these mistakes can no longer be corrected, as has been said by a number of Members of Parliament. There is therefore justified criticism of the way in which the organisations operated. I understand very well that the Chamber has also expressed concern about the route that is to follow. The Hoekstra Committee's report clearly shows how Bart van U. spent years in psychic distress, how his family tried to protect him from himself and prevent danger to his environment and how he brought his situation to the attention of police and caregivers in a special way. There's been a loss of signals through the chain. Misjudgements have been made and successive mistakes have been made. These findings of the committee are intrusive and serious. It is therefore right and understandable that the President of the College of Attorneys General has apologized. I too have apologized on behalf of the cabinet. Not only in public, but also personally in the conversation I had with both families, with which I had very intrusive conversations. I said it last week, but I repeat it here in the Chamber: I am very sorry that organisations whose job is to protect individuals and society have so seriously failed. The idea that this suffering could possibly have been avoided is deeply to my mind and strengthens me in the belief that everything must be done to prevent repetition. I will therefore do everything in my power to support the prosecution and the police. Mr Van der Staaij said it beautifully. He said, "We owe that to the memory of the deceased." The recommendations of the Hoekstra Committee are therefore taken over by the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Cabinet. The Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport and I believe that this calls for a solid package of measures. These measures are urgent and are therefore set in motion immediately. These measures are included in the cabinet response to the report and in the plan of action confused persons sent yesterday by the Minister of Health to the Chamber. The President of the College of Attorney General and the Police Chief of Police fully endorse these measures. To the D66 Group, I say that I fully accept the political responsibility for the direction of resolution we have chosen and the measures we are taking. I feel them too, and I'll fill them in as well. The Minister for Health will address the problem of the confused persons, including the role of the ggz in this regard. I will deal with the other issues identified in the report. First of all, I do it in general terms. I shall then turn to the specific questions raised by the Members of Parliament. Three topics are discussed in detail in the report: firstly, the implementation of the DNA investigation law in convicts, secondly, the handling of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police with orders for pre-trial detention and the execution of criminal decisions, and thirdly, the handling of the Public Prosecutor's Office and police with signals that Van U. was a danger to society. On these three issues, I immediately launched a number of measures for the short term. I have instructed the Public Prosecutor's Office to go back to 1 May 2010 immediately to find out how many and above all which convicted persons should still receive a DNA removal order. I have instructed the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police to take away cell material as soon as possible but before the end of the year of all convicted persons whose addresses are known and can still be traced. In the meantime, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police will make no effort to find out their whereabouts without a known address. The Public Prosecutor has transferred responsibility for the execution of interim orders for interim detention in appeal to the Public Prosecutor in the first line. The appeal teams pay more attention to possible danger to society. The Public Prosecutor's Office improves the transfer of cases between the first-line parquet and the resort parquet. And the Public Prosecutor's Office brings the rules for international alert as laid down in the Public Prosecutor's Manual, specifically to the attention of the employees concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u87	The story of DNA collection checks out. That's what the letter says and was also discussed at the hearing. From 12,500 people, that has yet to be taken away. The address of a very large part is not known, so it will be a very big and heavy job for the police to get that done. Now the chief of police says: I have to do that, I want to do that, but that is at the expense of other things. How does the Minister view this, after all, a huge blow must be made in view of the many priorities which the police already have?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u88	I understand Mr Bontes' question. That is why I raised this issue last Monday in the so-called Article 19 consultation, which you have as minister with the regional mayors, who are responsible for the National Police in their own region. That is where I put the question: are you prepared to help me catch up? It's made up of two parts: firstly, to collect DNA from the approximately 1,765 individuals we think we know where they are, and secondly, to detect and trace those 10,765 people we don't know about. The answer of the regional mayors to that was unanimous: we are going to; we can; we take responsibility for that. That means that they are making the assessment as provided for in our police system, or that can be within the priorities as they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u89	But the chief of police says that a number of tasks, a number of priorities that lie ahead, cannot be carried out. It's either one or the other. I understand the choice, but what isn't being done? What aren't the mayors gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u90	That consideration will be made within the police system by the mayors themselves. As Mr Bontes has read in the letter, I have said the following. If it means that this has consequences, in the sense that the priorities we have agreed on, for example in the Agenda for Security 2015-2018, will come to an end in the discussion of the 2016 budget, because then it is appropriate to ensure that additional funding is provided for this. I would have stayed with the National Police. The Chief Constable will ensure that execution orders are made to the police at the right level and that they can be escalated quickly. On this point, I have heard many members of the Chamber say: it cannot be that a district agent is responsible for the execution of judgments or judgments. The police will tighten up internal directives on this point. The Hoekstra Commission's recommendation is also followed that one prosecutor should now be responsible for the whole case. So a number of officers can no longer be working on the same case at the same time, causing information to be fragmented within the organisation. The Committee also identifies bottlenecks in the organisation and functioning of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Committee therefore recommends that an improvement programme be presented as soon as possible for the Public Prosecutor's Office. These improvements will take a little more time than the points I have just mentioned. In response, the College of Attorneys-General has said that it opts for a wide-ranging improvement programme. I support this approach. The College instructed the District Attorney of the District Attorney of the District Attorney's Office of Amsterdam to do so. The College shall adopt the improvement programme before 1 September of this year. I will inform the Chamber immediately afterwards. At my request, the Attorney General at the Supreme Court will supervise the implementation of that improvement programme within the framework of his supervisory task laid down in the Law on the Judicial Organisation. Finally, I instructed the inspection of my ministry to monitor, together with the Health Inspectorate, where necessary, the measures on matters not related to the Public Prosecutor's Office. I come to the issues that lead to longer-term action, starting with the subject of DNA. The Committee recommends that cell material for the determination of a DNA profile should be taken away at the time of insurance. A number of spokesmen have pointed out that in the past there has been a wide-ranging debate on DNA legislation in the Chamber, including in the light of the Constitution and the ECHR. In line with the agreements reached with Parliament on the Franken motion, as Mr van Oosten has already pointed out, such an amendment would require legal sustainability to be substantiated, practical feasibility checked and, of course, a privacy impact analysis to be carried out. Despite Mr Van Oosten's remarks, it seems to me right that the government policy should continue to be implemented on this point. This, although Mr Oskam has indicated on behalf of the CDA Group that the privacy impact assessment may no longer apply in this respect. However, given the importance of the subject, and the comment I have heard from the Chamber, I think it would be wise to carry out that privacy impact analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u91	Who performs this and what will the role of the Personal Data Protection College be in that process that looks at how legislation relates to Article 8 ECHR?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u92	The College for the Protection of Personal Data always gives advice on legislation, as Mr Segers knows without a doubt. The privacy impact analysis is an analysis made by the government itself on the basis of the criteria laid down in the Franken motion. They were taken over by the government by letter, also here in the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u93	Then I assume that advice will be sought before legislation is prepared. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u94	I remember the College's protection of personal data working the other way around. They want to see the bill first and at the end of the ride they give advice on it. This is also the usual practice of legislation. However, one thing is certain: Mr Segers can rest assured that the College's personal data protection will, of course, be asked for advice at the right time. I will inform the Chamber before 1 November on the outcome of the following three elements: The legal sustainability, the practical feasibility and the privacy impact analysis. In the meantime, I'll prepare the bill. The Court's opinion on this is certainly not unanimous, but I can see that there is support for it. As an interim measure, the Committee proposes to remove cell material from the convicted person immediately after his or her conviction in court. With the Justice Council, I will, first of all, map out the pros and cons of the decline in cell material in the courthouse after the conviction next Monday. I will also inform the Chamber of the results of this consultation before 1 November, or as much earlier as possible. I am also investigating, as I explained in the cabinet response, whether there are any alternatives to promoting a previous decrease in cell material. Then I'll get to the pre-trial orders. The fact is that the court ordered the imprisonment of Van U. for justified reasons and that this order was not enforced.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u95	Mr Segers has another question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u96	A number of questions have been raised in the Chamber as to the extent to which the current legislation is inadequate. Isn't that an analysis to be made before you start preparing new legislation? Surely it is not possible for the College to ask for protection of personal data and others only when the legislation has already been prepared to look into it? Don't you have to do that analysis a long time ago?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u97	That is correct, but part of that analysis is already included in the report of the Hoekstra Committee. The big problem is that there are people who are gradually keeping the staffing process unavailable; by the way, Van U. is an example of this. Shortly after a ruling had been made on appeal, he left abroad, with the aim of escaping his sentence. That is exactly what happens to a number of people who have been convicted but do not end up in prison. In this way, too, he tried to escape the registration of his DNA. That's why the Hoekstra committee says: if you know that people do, try to take that DNA before, at the first insurance, because then you have the material available. I read it in such a way that the Hoekstra committee says: then you go into the criminal proceedings and without having to remove the DNA material or at least without having to remove the sample, because maybe you don't even have to make a DNA profile of it; that's a matter of execution, and it's only after the conviction that the system is going to work that you can include that DNA material in the DNA database. That is how I read the Hoekstra Committee's proposal. That could prevent that last problem, the problem that someone makes themselves out of their feet after a final conviction and doesn't give up DNA material.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u98	The doubt in part of the Chamber lies in the fact that new legal possibilities are already being prepared while the current legal possibilities have not yet been sufficiently exploited. It's complicated. It is also a question of what the guarantees are. What are the guarantees if you actually take DNA material and say: we're not going to use it for a while? Those are very compelling questions. I understand that we are going to talk about this, but we must have an answer, even in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u99	Of course, I've made that assessment. The consideration of the proposal put forward by the Hoekstra Committee is as follows. The Hoekstra Committee also notes that there is a practical gap in implementation and that we cannot remove it with a different way of implementation, for the simple reason that someone can always get out of their way at any time. That's the way it is. I don't like that, but that's how it is. By the way, as I say for the record, figures from recent years show that more than 85% are simply produced in a proper DNA profile. The law is therefore highly successful. However, the 15% to 20% of individuals who have not received a DNA sample are now a group of 12,500 people. I understand very well that there are Members of Parliament who say: that is not really possible! I get that. The Hoekstra committee says the same thing. Then you're gonna look at the solution. One of the solutions can be to do it already at insurance. And yes, there must be very good guarantees, because Mr Segers is right in saying that the next two things cannot happen that should not happen. In the first place, material should not accidentally enter the DNA database, while the person concerned has not yet been convicted of any crime under which that DNA may be collected. That's one thing that's for sure. Secondly, no one should accidentally enter the DNA database at the end of the journey or, vice versa, at all. There must be very strong safeguards in this respect. I fully realize that. We will have the debate on this once the legislative proposal has been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u100	It's very "big steps, quick home." The Minister himself says that the current law is up to 85% successful. So it's the last 15%. We know that the police do not always carry out the execution task very carefully. If the police were to do the right thing, the law could be up to 98% successful. So I think it is right for Mr Segers to ask: should we not first look at the current law, to increase it to 98%, before you come to another, much more radical law, with a lot of red tape?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u101	I understand Mrs Berndsen says that. But let her move in my position. The Hoekstra Committee finds that there is a gap in the law. That gap is serious. That has nothing to do with the execution. There are people who consciously evade their prison sentence and thereby give DNA at the same time. That's a fact. The Hoekstra committee says, at least as I read it, that it is actually not socially responsible for us to allow that risk to exist. Mrs Berndsen says you can make that risk go away. That's how I understand Mrs Berndsen. Actually, she says that risk is acceptable if we make sure we get close to that 98%. I don't know if it's 98%. If it's 95%, you're still talking about thousands of people every year 5% of all convicts. The question then is whether this is acceptable to the Chamber in the longer term. I find that very difficult. We have a law which states that all convicted persons must enter the DNA database if they meet the requirements. The Hoekstra Committee says that, if you want to approach that and if you want to approach that as much as possible, you will have to change the law. I'm following that recommendation because I think she's intrusive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u102	That's only half the story, because those convicts are supposed to end up in jail. The DNA reduction is supposed to make sure that those 12,000 convicts don't walk free anymore. With such a new law, you don't tackle the big problem that people like Bart of U. just belong in prison. That's what I miss the Minister's whole story. It's a case of big steps, quick home.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u103	This cabinet has put forward a proposal for this. That is the immediate execution of a criminal conviction. This has proved to be a rather complicated legislative proposal, of which not everyone in the Chamber is in favour. If Mrs Berndsen now says on behalf of D66 that the sentence may be executed immediately after the first conviction at first instance, so that we do not run the risk of anyone getting out of the way during the appeal, I am very pleased with this support. I believe that D66 has not expressed that support before. I actually thought D66 was against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u104	But that is a completely different discussion, which I am not going to have in this context. We are now talking about the implementation of this law. This law should lead to DNA collection in convicts and execution, so that DNA research can take place. So it doesn't play until they're convicted. We're talking about situations where people have committed serious crimes. Then there is no question at all that there will not be an immediate capture. I would ask the Minister to let the Chamber think again on that very point before he comes to another law so quickly. We are also gradually becoming completely gallic of all those laws that are then not being used. And then there'll be a new law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u105	I am struggling a little with Mrs Berndsen's remark. We know what the problems are. We know that people who are pending appeals, when they see that they are still being convicted, are trying to get out of prison. That's a fact. It's the 10,765 convicts we've lost. We don't know where they are, because if we knew, they'd be punished. There are also people who are evading the DNA release. Of course, the current law needs to be implemented much better. That's exactly the assignment I gave you. Those 1,765 people we know where they are are already being tracked down. That's what I agreed with the police and regional mayors last Monday. We're going after those 10,765 other people. We'll signal them and try to find them. In that case, we'll also take DNA from them. This does not, however, give a 100% guarantee, which I believe we owe to society. There is only one way to do that, namely by adopting the Hoekstra Committee's proposal. Given the seriousness of the situation, the cabinet has done so. If the Chamber then says that we do not have to do so on second thought, I certainly do not taste it by majority vote, then I will not do it. I really believe that, given the seriousness of the situation, the government can be expected to adopt the recommendations and look closely at the legal feasibility, feasibility and privacy. This is, after all, a point that has been raised by a number of Members. We shall then be able to hold the debate in full.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u106	The SP has a bit of a problem with the way in which the Minister puts it. The problem was that the current laws were not properly implemented. It was an execution problem. You can find what you want, the minister may be realistic and say he's not gonna make it to 100%, but now it's not very well organized. First of all, I call on the Minister to look for ways of improving this and to inform the Chamber very soon. Convicts can be forced by the current law to give up DNA. Let's do that. I'd like to hear how the Minister is going to improve that. Is there, by the way, a 100% guarantee in the proposal which the Minister has in mind? I don't think so, and I even doubt if it would have mattered in Van U's case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u107	That is a valid point. I may not have explained it clearly. There are two things the government is going to do. The first is that, where necessary, the current legislation is being implemented much better. Of those 1,765 people we think we know where they are, we need to take DNA immediately. We must also make a huge effort to find out where they are and to ensure that the remaining 10,765 of whom we do not know where they are are. That is the block that Mr Van Nispen says we need to implement the current legislation better. I fully agree with Mr Van Nispen. In addition, the Hoekstra Committee says that the current system ensures that there are chances that things are not going well, because it is only after the conviction that you start looking for the convicted person. The committee recommends that an interim measure be taken to ensure that you take DNA material immediately after the session. This is what I am going to discuss next Monday in consultation with the Justice Council. That is what is being done. Next, she recommends preparing a legislative proposal to solve that problem, that gap that you can see is there, that we are suffering from and that does not allow the law to be implemented easily. We'll take that from the committee. We will have that debate under the law. I can clearly tell you that I, together with the Hoekstra Committee, must show that this will solve the problem. The 100% coverage that Mr Van Nispen is asking for, I certainly do not deliver on this point. Even then, there will always be someone who can get away from DNA collection in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u108	That's exactly my point. So I doubt it would have mattered in this case if we'd already had that new law. We may never know, but that's something to keep in mind. So it shows that it is important to make every effort to implement the current law properly. I hear from the Minister that he wants to, but I don't know how. On this point, I would also like to ask that we not only inform us on 1 November of his discussion with the Council of Justice. That can be done much sooner. The Council for Justice is going to identify the advantages and disadvantages. I would ask the Minister to inform the Chamber as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u109	That's exactly what I said. I said: at least before 1 November, but as soon as possible and as much sooner as I know where we stand. Moreover, I do not expect us to reach an agreement on this immediately on Monday. I can already sense that this proposal is a bit of a hunch. People who are now coming to the hearing voluntarily may think that they are not doing so anymore. And then a number of MPs get exactly what they don't want right now. They want as many people as possible to attend the hearing to hear the penalty. There's an extra reason not to come if you know that your DNA will be taken immediately. I can already predict that this is one of the points that the Council will raise in the case-law. So that's what I'm going to talk about. As soon as I know, and by 1 November at the latest, the Chamber will be informed. I was talking about the orders for remand. It should simply be noted that, on a number of points, I have explained it in the cabinet response, and that this aspect will be explicitly taken into account in the law before the Chamber, namely the law transferring the enforcement from the Public Prosecutor's Office to the Minister's responsibility. It is, of course, central to how mistakes, such as those made, can be avoided and how we ensure that no other mistakes are made. The proposed measures will be implemented as soon as possible with regard to the export of those orders. Then I'll come to the state's attorney's office. The Public Prosecutor's Office is facing a serious austerity call in the coming years. I'm not gonna take anything off of that. The total budget of the Public Prosecutor's Office will decrease from 534 million to 498 million in the period 2015-2018. That's what's planned now. Those savings, with which the Public Prosecutor has also agreed, I would like to say once again that the internal organisation, such as the reduction of overhead, will be the main source of concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u110	However, I would like to come back to the previous point: the detention and enforcement of the order. In June 2014, Bart van U. joined the prison where he was supposed to be. He volunteered there because he realizes that things aren't going well. He calls in and says, "Lock me up," because it's gonna go wrong. And prison is sending him away. He has to prove to himself that he's supposed to be in prison. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u111	This is explained in detail in the report of the Hoekstra Committee. That is because the alert that should have been issued did not take place. So no one, including the police in Rotterdam and Amersfoort and the prison in Nieuwegein and Utrecht, did not know that he needed to be locked up. The alert that was needed wasn't there. As Mr Van Nispen could read in the report, this was requested by the district agent in Rotterdam and the Public Prosecutor has not responded to that request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u112	The logical follow-up question is, of course, how that will be solved. I know the Minister is in the process of drafting a bill on the enforcement of criminal decisions. We should not wait for that, because there are already people who are supposed to be in prison but not there, also because of administrative errors. I want to know from the Minister how that's gonna be solved. I haven't read anything about it, not even in the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u113	It's gonna be fixed. It is an existing agreement that must be kept. What has been agreed here, in accordance with the opinion of the Hoekstra Committee, is that responsibility is no longer invested with several prosecutors, in this particular example of Bart van U. with an Advocate General, but with one prosecutor. I said that in my introduction. This officer has responsibility for the whole case. He knows that if an order for imprisonment is issued by the court, which is not very common, that alert must also be automatically issued. There can be no doubt about it then. The same applies when going into cassation. On behalf of Mr Van U., by the way, all judgments have been appealed against. If this happens, one can no longer think, to my great regret, this has happened now that it will also suspend the imprisonment. That's what the facts are. This has to be avoided and a solution has been chosen in which the Public Prosecutor has every confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u114	I'll continue on the same point. If, in the short term, someone reports to a police station, because he thinks he still has to serve a sentence, will there really be an insight into whether this is the case so that action can be taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u115	It goes without saying that this must be the case. With the D.A.'s office, I made the deal that it'll make sure it does. In this particular example, the alert should have been there. With regard to that alert, I agreed with the Public Prosecutor's Office that an additional blow should be made to ensure that any errors are corrected.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u116	Does the Minister expect it to be a definitive system in the short term? Does he expect someone to report to a police station to know how to proceed and how to get the right information?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u117	Mr Van der Staaij understands that the system is final if everyone does their job properly. That's what the system's aimed at. If there are people who do not perform their work properly, human failure creates a problem in a system that is in itself good. This human failure we have to get out of it. For the future, agreements have been made on this, in which I have confidence. However, this does not mean that I accept that footprint. For this reason, I have asked the Attorney General of the Supreme Court to monitor precisely these aspects. He accepted that assignment. A number of Members have made a comment on the cuts that are being made at the Public Prosecutor's Office. Although I know that the figures are known in the Chamber, I would like to draw attention to this. In 2004, the Public Prosecutor's Office received a budget of 517 million. Mrs Berndsen said that it began with the cuts of the Public Prosecutor's Office. In 2011, the budget, unlike Mrs Berndsen thought, had increased to 644 million. So there's more than 100 million more. A further 547 million will be available in 2018, as a task-setting cut will be made from this cabinet for the first time in 2016. I say very carefully 'from this cabinet', because there are also task-setting cuts in previous cabinets. From this cabinet, there are no additional cuts to the Public Prosecutor's Office. However, if we look at the overall picture from previous Cabinets, Mrs Berndsen is right in saying that in the period 2011 - 2018, a total of 122 million euros will be saved on the Public Prosecutor's Office according to the path that lies ahead. This takes into account the additional intensification measures of 22 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u118	The Minister now refers to all kinds of figures, I did not mention them, but I only quoted from the report of the Hoekstra Committee, which found that only the Public Prosecutor's Office was cut from 2004 onwards. The minister now gives all sorts of numbers, but he doesn't specify the number of increased tasks at the state's attorney's office. With an increase in money, the tasks also increased. So that's just half the story. It is simply a fact that there is currently up to 26% discount on the public prosecutor's budget, while more and more tasks are involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u119	Mrs Berndsen is right on that point. For the record, it is not the case that 26% is being cut, but that is the impression Mrs Berndsen gives. The path runs until 2018 and that would be the final picture. That's right. The Public Prosecutor has said that given the extra tasks and tasks that have gone down, it stands for that cut. So the D.A. can handle that task. That's a fact. Mr Bolhaar repeated that. The question asked by Mrs Berndsen and other members of the Chamber is: how do you deal with this when you look at the extra investment and the attention to be given from the conclusions of the Hoekstra Committee? In the letter I wrote that I am going to discuss this with the Public Prosecutor, but I have not had an opportunity to do so in the last few days. I will inform the Chamber by 1 November at the latest, but possibly before that, of the discussions with both the Public Prosecutor's Office and the National Police Office, which is also supposed to make an extra effort and its financial consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u120	The Minister is dealing with it very lightly. The alarm clock's been ringing for a long time. Look at the way the state's attorney's office is cutting back. We know that administrative support has been cut back and that the prosecutors have to do their own copy work. We also know that more and more younger prosecutors are being deployed and that experience therefore disappears. We also know that ICT is not working properly and that there is no longer a prosecutor at the police stations, while improving the quality of detection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u121	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u122	I think the Minister is very easily ignoring that. Let him just say: yes, there is a huge pressure on the Public Prosecutor's Office; it's in the red figures and that's why I come up with Princess Day with solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u123	I think that is exactly what I have said as a minister in the last 103 days. During all the AOs in which Mrs Berndsen asked me this question, I said exactly the same thing. It's sharp on the wind sails. If the state's attorney's office has any deficits or problems, that's what I'm up to. That's what my predecessor said. I have just said exactly what Mrs Berndsen says, namely that in the 2016 budget process, after consultation with the Public Prosecutor and the police, I will look at the additional financial resources needed in the light of the recommendations of the Hoekstra Committee. Yeah, I'll look into that and let the Chamber know about it. Because if the answer from both organisations is that it is not necessary, we have a different conversation than if they say it is necessary. Then I will have the challenge of saying so in order to find this amount within my budget. That will mean that I will have to make choices and I will refer them to the Chamber. That's how it works in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u124	For example, discussions with people from the Public Prosecutor's Office show that the focus on jihadism and the threat it poses has put extra pressure on the organisation very recently. If, in these discussions, it is true that the prosecution is unable to handle it, does the Minister say in so many words: I want the prosecutor to be able to carry out his task and to carry out the Hoekstra Committee's recommendations with full force? That's my lead and not the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u125	Of course. The letter clearly states that the cabinet takes over the mandate and recommendations of the Hoekstra Committee. That's the deal, and that means we're gonna do it. In the letter, I wrote within what time limit I want it to be ready. I also said I'd look for money if I needed extra money. So I can say yes to that. By the way, the point of jihadism is of course something else. Thanks to Mr Van der Staaij's motion, an additional EUR 20 million per year has been made available to the Public Prosecutor to deal with these tasks. So that is not a bottleneck, but there are other bottlenecks. And I am aware of that, especially when we say to the Public Prosecutor, as has happened now, that it will have to do a number of things more quickly than planned and that more probably needs to be done than anticipated. Well, then you have that conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u126	I know firsthand that there is indeed pressure in the human sense. People are being transferred. This is at the expense of other public prosecutors' concerns. If the Minister says he has to look within his budget, does this mean that it can squeak and grind in the criminal justice chain, when we have just seen that the whole chain is crucial and that the whole chain is under pressure? It could also be that the Minister should go to the Minister of Finance to say: I really have a big problem, because if we want to take the recommendations of the Hoekstra Committee seriously, then I need extra money. Does the Minister rule out that he could take such a step?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u127	That's always one of the options. Moreover, the Minister of Finance is known as someone who is fairly consistent in answering these questions. I believe that all ministers have that experience. I will certainly not fail to do so, but we accept in the Netherlands that every minister within the government is in principle responsible for his own budget and not for everything in the generics. That's how the system works. It is an option, and I fully agree with Mr Segers on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u128	I heard the minister right. He's gonna do a number of things, including talk to the D.A.'s office. If necessary, it comes to the budget. I did not hear what the Chamber heard last Monday, namely that the Public Prosecutor himself felt it was necessary. The D.A.'s office says we want to accept that outstretched hand now, because we can't make it. Isn't it a little late to talk to the D.A.'s office and take a quiet look at it? If someone wants to take immediate action, doesn't it also need the financial resources to do so? How's the Minister gonna solve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u129	I think it is right to draw attention first to Mr Bolhaar's remark that a large part of the problems identified by the Hoekstra Committee stem from inadequate implementation of the work that simply had to be done. There is no need for an additional budget for this in itself. Mr Van Oosten rightly asked whether you should give an extra bag of money to people who are not doing their job properly. I agree with Mr Van Oosten that this does not always have to be the conclusion. At the same time, I have put in the letter that we take the recommendations in the framework of the task we jointly accept very seriously. After all, this is a very serious problem. The state's attorney's office has already issued that signal, but I haven't been able to give my hands and feet to it right away. Anyway, I'm taking that signal seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u130	Of course, where no good work is being done, good work must be done, but the committee's proposals go much further, think of ICT, of setting up an entire section that is not working properly now. I know that from my own experience. The D.A.'s office isn't really doing anything about these BOPZ hearings. In short, shouldn't the Minister simply say in this debate that he understands that the public prosecutor has to do what he has to do from his own budget and do it properly, but that he also understands that the public prosecutor can't finance all the recommendations from his own budget and he is therefore working on them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u131	I think I said that and I wrote it. Where the recommendations lead to financial difficulties for the Public Prosecutor's Office, I will share them with the Chamber at the latest on 1 November next when my budget is discussed. That's exactly the thrust of the conversation I'm going to have with the D.A.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u132	I would like to continue the discussion Mrs Berndsen had with the Minister. Mrs Berndsen was actually talking about the first report of the Galan Group. The D.A. has said that it can carry out that task if the conditions are met. Mrs Berndsen mentioned a number of conditions, including ICT, which were not met. Meanwhile, the super-pg has issued another profit warning at Nieuwsuur. He also replied at the hearing to a question from Mrs Berndsen that he could only deliver on the recommendations if he was paid for them. That's where it came down. Now the Minister has a knowledge origin, because he has the second report of the Galan Group. That's about the recalibrate. We're not getting that report. I haven't seen it either, but I can imagine that the Galan Group states that possible cuts cannot be made in such a short period of time. What is this about in the light of the answers that the Minister has just given to Mrs Berndsen, in the light of the second report by the Galan Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u133	I have to repeat what I just said: I'm gonna have this conversation with the State's Attorney's Office. This will undoubtedly point to the second report of the Galan Group, which I know my department has at its disposal. I haven't seen it myself, to be honest, but that's what we're talking about. I will inform the Chamber by 1 November at the latest, but in any case during the discussion of the 2016 budget, about the outcome of that discussion and what I can do with it in my budget. That's right. The D.A. issued that signal. I understand. That is why I put in the letter that I can well imagine the need for financial resources in order to comply with these recommendations. On the one hand, when I say that I am taking over the recommendations, I have to give butter to the fish on the other hand. If Mr Segers' suggestion is not taken over by the Minister of Finance, I am likely to have to make choices. I have to add, though this is a well-known fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u134	The Minister himself referred to the fact that, under the budget agreement, extra money has been agreed to the Public Prosecutor's Office. Or, in fact, I have to say, less cuts than planned. There is a structural additional 20 million to bring cases to justice, including in the field of jihadization. Can he reassure me that the money for that purpose will not be forthcoming? Isn't the money for the objective of bringing more cases to justice used also for other necessary activities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u135	I can. There is not enough emphasis on the importance of the assignment we have shared with the Public Prosecutor regarding the risk of jihadists, also in view of the events in recent days. That money is available, and that is also being spent on it. I have already said in general consultation that there are currently more than 85 criminal investigations in progress in this area. That's a lot. Those investigations run into between 90 and 140 suspects. That's a lot, too. So we are working very seriously on this. It has to be, because it has to do with the safety of Dutch society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u136	If we allow this debate to work in this way, the conclusion is justified that it is more the question of how much more money is being made available than whether money is being made available for the implementation of the recommendations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u137	I do not rule out that conclusion from Mr Van der Staaij. That is why I wrote in my letter that, if extra money is needed to deliver on the recommendations, I will inform the Court of Auditors of this in the budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u138	Somehow I can understand the Minister, but he's still a little bit hung on two thoughts. He keeps saying: if extra money is needed, because that has yet to be proved. Well, that's perfectly clear to the DA himself. It recognizes the mistakes, but at the same time it says quite bluntly: if we have to take the improvement measures that we feel are urgent, then we cannot do so within the current budget. Those were the literal words of the President of the College of Attorney General last Monday. The Minister says that we will inform the Chamber in the course of the budget debate about whether additional money will be added. What does that mean for the improvement measures that we already have to put in place, as well as for the space that the staff of the Public Prosecutor's Office experience to do what is necessary? Because that is, of course, also an aspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u139	That is certainly an aspect. I see two kinds of recommendations very clearly. There are recommendations that say, what you're doing now, you have to do better. It doesn't take any extra money. That work is already in the standard public prosecutor's office and should have just happened. It was therefore also provided for in the budget of the Public Prosecutor's Office. There is a second aspect on which the Hoekstra Committee says: a number of things need to be organized more, better and in a different way. So these things are not already being introduced today, but in the longer term. These things will require additional funding. That's what I'm gonna talk to the state's attorney's office about. I want to do that with hands and feet, with euros: what exactly and what exactly does that cost? Then the question is where I get it from, but that's my problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u140	The SP thinks it is too late to know how much money will be added until the 2016 budget process. I would also like to point out to the Minister that it is a little too easy what he does. He says that things that are already happening must be done better, and they can do so without extra money. Well, I highly doubt that. If you work at the state's attorney's office, pop out your closet with all sorts of things and there's already been cut up in the employees, then you don't experience the space to do what's necessary, so to make that extra call to the parquet or to the ggz to exchange information? I mention just a few things, but for the everyday things that need to be done well and carefully, people need to have the space, the staff, the assistance, and you name it, to do what is needed, including the financial area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u141	Again, of course it is. But on the financial area, for the record, there is still more than EUR 500 million per year going to the Public Prosecutor's Office. That's not nothing. It's half of what goes to the entire judiciary. So we're talking about a very substantial amount of money. The Hoekstra committee notes that the legislation we already have, which is therefore foreseen in the budget, is not being implemented in a number of respects as intended. The D.A.'s office says we're gonna improve that as of today. In my opinion, this does not require any additional funding at the moment, but I am going to have a discussion about this with the Public Prosecutor's Office. And, of course, I always talk to the Chamber about extra money needed in the budget. That's how the system works.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u142	The Minister says he will report to the Chamber on what he has discussed with, among other things, the Public Prosecutor's Office on the possible use of additional resources. I would like to ask the Minister that is precisely the question I raised earlier, whether he is going to tell the Chamber what additional tasks this entails. I do not want us to come back again with a bag of money because people do not take responsibility. I really don't want to. If money is needed for additional tasks, then we can discuss it, but we should not give extra money because culture is a wrong one. May I assume the Minister will give us that feedback as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u143	The answer to that is, of course, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u144	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u145	Then I come to the alignment between care and criminal law. Many members of the Chamber have called for attention to be given to this issue. This was specifically about the confused persons. The Van U case and the Hoekstra Committee's report have pushed us right into the facts. It is not easy to deal adequately with confused persons, especially if they, as in the case of Van U., explicitly avoid care. I would like to repeat once again that the Hoekstra committee also describes how Mr Van U. has tried structurally not to get into care. He has successfully managed to escape all kinds of investigations. He wanted to be put in prison to serve his sentence, but every attempt by his family, caregivers, psychologists and psychiatrist at the NIFP to get him help was in vain; he systematically avoided care. For the cabinet, it is important that confusions that cause nuisance or pose a danger to themselves or others should be addressed. Mr Schippers of Health, Welfare and Sport will be discussing this in much more detail in a moment. My starting point is that care is more important than punishment. I have heard the same thing with a number of Members of the Chamber. The Safety House can play an important role in complex cases where care is involved. The aim of the Safety House is that all disciplines around care and punishment work together at local and regional level. I had it verified that was a question from one of the Members of this House whether the ggz is currently affiliated to each House of Security. That is the case, but in different ways. The same applies to other care parties such as social care. In itself the ggz is there, but not in all cases in the same way. Of course, it is important that parties from the justice and care worlds can find each other. In practice, it appears at the level of the case that such cooperation may be difficult. The Cabinet, in cooperation with the VNG, will ensure that this cooperation and the sharing of information are improved. For the Ministry of Security and Justice, confused persons who end up in criminal law must be properly treated. In the ZSM pathway, it is indicated whether punishment or care is needed. If there is punishment, care may even be part of the sentence. The detention plan also offers and provides care to a person who receives only a bare prison sentence. In the case of someone like Van U., that could have been part of his detention if the order had been executed. For confusion with a mental disorder that poses a danger to themselves or others, the BOPZ can already be used to provide good care. In line with the recommendations of the Hoekstra Commission, the Public Prosecutor will actively implement his applicant role already provided for in the law. Mr Recourt pointed that out as well. I have therefore asked the Court of Justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office to make further procedural arrangements before 1 October on the handling of BOPZ cases, the core being that the judge who assesses the application has access to the complete file, which contains all relevant information, including information from the care domain, the relatives and relatives, the municipality and the criminal justice chain. It is important that the House of Safety can play a role here too. The active exchange of information is essential. My colleague will immediately go into detail on the plan of action confused persons. This is mainly about people who do not yet pose a threat to society and themselves, because here too, prevention is better than cure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u146	The Hoekstra Committee is clear when it says that the direction is lacking. She wants to put that role in the state's attorney's office. Now there is a law in preparation which assumes that the Public Prosecutor's Office does not already take up that task of the BOPZ Act. In practice, the medical director does that. With this new law, it will be placed in a more solid position. The mayor is involved in the BOPZ Act for the provisional authorisation. He's got a nice overview, 'cause he's in all these meetings. So the mayor can also be chosen as coordinator. Hoekstra makes the decision for the D.A.'s office, but how does the Minister view it? Why does he choose to follow Hoekstra?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u147	I have looked very closely at what the Hoekstra Committee has said about this and also at what Mr Segers has already said in the media. In his view, the mayor could play that role; I hear Mr Recourt say that too. So far, we've chosen the medical director. Before that there was discussion about a committee. There was a great deal of discussion about this in the exchange with the Chamber. I follow the line of the Hoekstra Committee: it is ultimately about restrictions on freedom; it is about someone being treated or included. That is a fierce restriction on the integrity of the human body, a fierce restriction of one's freedom. I understand the Hoekstra Committee when it says that there must be a role for the Public Prosecutor, who already has that task in principle. I would add that it must be done on the basis of the complete files and information. The mayor has that power for a genuine restriction of liberty or deprivation of liberty or for the impairment of the integrity of one's body only in crisis and emergency situations, but not in structural cases. I would find that choice rather difficult right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u148	I find these arguments light. Why? Because the state's attorney's office is acting in that civilian corner, too. Even if criminal offences have not been committed, it claims to deprive a person of his freedom on the basis of the hazard criterion. In practice, we see that the D.A. is not fulfilling its role there. That happens in a different way, sometimes even a little too critical. The counter argument is that you want that civilian side, that ggz side, to be firmer, because you want to work on the front as much as possible, to prevent crimes from being committed and that someone doesn't get the help he needs. The criminal justice system is reactive. It only reacts when facts have been committed. There are, therefore, all kinds of arguments to put it outside the public prosecutor's office and go to mayor or medical director. Isn't that weighing more robust than just shown in Hoekstra?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u149	I have made that weighting in response to the opinion of the Hoekstra Committee, an opinion which I understand and which I think is well-founded. We will further support it if we come to the Chamber with the letter of amendment or amended legislative proposals. I see that this debate needs to be held. I don't think this is the time to discuss it in extenso. I have listened carefully to Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u150	Sometimes it's just one phone call to a housing corporation to customize a place to make sure the neighborhood doesn't have any trouble with someone so confused. I have a case in which a dark room had to be installed. That was an action on which very prosaic a phone call was based. It's very difficult to leave something like that with the D.A.'s office or the medical director. Would it not be a good idea to take a moment to see how we can be sure that this alignment will be sufficient and that people will never again fall apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u151	That's exactly the point. I'm not gonna take the time. The Hoekstra committee even says that the legislative proposals are going to take too long, and we have said that this is only the question. There's a bill in the First Chamber. If that Forensic Care Act is put to the vote tomorrow, so to speak, it's done. The Health and Force Act is also in the Upper House. The law mandatory ggz is in this Chamber. So it can happen very quickly in itself. I ask the Chamber to promote that. Then we do not need to take an interim measure. Given the nature and seriousness of the problem, we are obliged to conduct this debate quickly. Once again, there will be a debate and I have listened carefully to the feelings of some of the spokesmen on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u152	I have one more question that fits in with that. The Minister said a few minutes ago that the connection between the Security Houses and the Ggz is very diverse. Are there still opportunities for creating some uniformity and helping municipalities further? It varies enormously from one municipality to another, and it would be obvious that there would be some coordination and a direction of one of the ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u153	I think that it is a very good point that will also be addressed in the plan of action on confused persons, which Mr Schippers will be discussing in a moment. One thing is certain, and that is that, of course, the provision of information in these Safety Houses can and must be carried out better. That is one of the recommendations in the report that we will adopt. We will also implement it in consultation with the VNG.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u154	The security houses were once established from the D.A.'s office. For a while, the D.A. has withdrawn, but doesn't the Minister think it would be desirable for the Security Houses to regain a more dominant position?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u155	That's a good point. In the context of this debate on the Hoekstra Committee, I have not made this very explicit. I have not yet formed my thoughts on this, but in general, the Public Prosecutor's Office is part of the Security Houses and will simply have to play its role there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u156	I am also asking for this because Mr Recourt has said several times that the direction of the Public Prosecutor's Office can be very well shaped if the weather is more dominant in the Security Houses.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u157	This is inevitable if we want the Public Prosecutor's Office to play a better directional role in a number of areas, as in the case of confused persons, and even more legally supported in it. That also means that it will play an important role in the Security House. My impression, by the way, is that it already does. I saw it myself, and I was at a case meeting in the Security House the other day. That's where the district attorney was sitting at the table with everyone else involved. The role played there, I would like to describe as a directing role.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u158	I have another question about the role of director. I didn't talk about it that way, but I think it's a very sensible discussion whether the Public Prosecutor or the Mayor should do so. Wouldn't the Minister also like to ask the Dutch Society of Mayors about his vision and discuss it with them? They have also been given tasks in the area of domestic violence and in other areas. It would be good to see if it also fits nicely in that package. Or do they themselves see more hooks and eyes on them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u159	Of course I am prepared to do so. I sense the need for some members to look at the mayor's position. I will be happy to enter into this conversation, not only with the Dutch Society of Mayors but also with the VNG. I say that to Mr Van der Staaij. However, I would like to point out that I defended the law of football not too long ago in the First Chamber and that almost all the spokesmen asked whether the mayor was not burdened with public order and security tasks. I would point out that there are also concerns within Parliament, the States General, about the role of the mayor and the way in which he is increasingly entrusted with additional tasks. At that time, I said that mayors themselves would like to have these tasks. If that proves to be the outcome of the discussion, it can always be part of the consideration and I will inform the House of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u160	Thank you for that commitment. I recognize the discussion the Minister mentions. I noticed that when I asked around me, it was said that a mayor does say that a lot, but in this case it may be something that fits in with tasks they already do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u161	This will undoubtedly be demonstrated by the discussion we are going to have with the association. The balance to be made in the bosom of the cabinet is whether we follow the recommendation of the Hoekstra Committee or not. Of course, we will find that motivated. For the time being, I found the explanation given by the Hoekstra Committee quite understandable, namely that this task lies more with the Public Prosecutor's Office when it comes to restrictions of liberty and deprivation of liberty and ultimately a judicial test than with a mayor. However, I am happy to open the conversation and I am happy to accept the suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u162	I also felt a slight urge to step forward as the Minister indicated that he felt the need for the Chamber to speak about the mayor's position. Let me say that, of course, such a confused figure does not comply with the municipal border. That question does concern me and I think I heard Mr Hoekstra reply to a question from one of my colleagues last Monday. Perhaps the factual position of a mayor and the power that he can exercise in this respect can be taken into account in the discussions with the Dutch Society of Mayors. After all, when such a figure is located outside the municipal boundaries, it stops again. In that respect, I can very well imagine that you're gonna end up with a district attorney.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u163	It is a point that Mr van Oosten is right to make. Indeed, the mayor only has power in his own territory. At least that's how we've organized it so far. I think it's wise to do it that way. That could be an argument pleading for the D.A.'s office. Moreover, in the Hoekstra report, we also see that it is very important, in the current system, for the information to continue to be shared. That is why the attempt of the mayor of Amersfoort, which was a successful attempt in the first instance, was finally stranded in court, because the judge did not have the complete file from several municipalities. We are not only solving this problem by saying that it must be the officer, because it must have all the relevant information at its disposal. I'm finishing my general part now. In the meantime, however, I have already answered many of the specific questions that have been asked. As a conclusion to my general part, I would have liked to say that I come to a number of specific questions after this, but a little less than I expected to see that the Hoekstra Committee has done an excellent job. It has managed to identify clearly in a very short space of time a number of pressing issues. The report gives us very clear leads to take the necessary measures, both in the short term and in the longer term. I am very grateful to the committee for the work it has done. There are two more questions about DNA. Mr Oskam asked how other countries deal with the DNA collection. This is part of the privacy impact assessment. That question will be included. Mr Oskam and other members asked why the Public Prosecutor's Office did not choose any other method of reduction at the time. For this, I refer back to the huge debate that has taken place here in both chambers on the DNA release law, and its various stages. In the end, this choice has been made, also because of the discussion about the ECHR and our own Constitution regarding the integrity of the human body. I now come to the health and safety component. The PvdA Group and also Mrs Berndsen of D66 and the Christian Union Group have asked who should be in charge. We just had a debate on that. In principle, we choose that role for the D.A. and the D.A. However, in the debate we are going to have and in the documents, I will also give consideration to the mayor as an alternative. I will also have a conversation with the Dutch Society of Mayors. In that context, Mr Van Nispen asked whether people are still people in the system, or whether they have become numbers and protocols. I also think that Mr Van Nispen should acknowledge that you need to implement legal and regulatory protocols properly. Here it appears on a number of points that the protocols did not comply with the desired procedure. At the same time, however, it cannot be ruled out that in some contacts with public authorities people may get the impression that they have become protocols and numbers. It's a lot of work for this cabinet to do differently. The personal approach has been at the heart of the implementation of sanctions for years. Communication with people is essential, both in the criminal justice chain and in the area around the Security House, where that is hybrid. The legislative proposals and improvement programmes are constantly being reviewed on this basis, and this is increasingly being included in the legislative proposal. Also in the USB (execution chain of criminal decisions) bill, the enforcement of penalties will pass from the Public Prosecutor to the Minister of Security and Justice... is that personal orientation explicitly starting point. There is a need for tailor-made work in all areas. This also applies to the Programme Improving Performance of the Criminal Justice Chain. Minister Schippers will undoubtedly explain how this will go in the future in the ggz. I come to a point of principle. Mr Van Nispen said that there should actually be a national committee on health and safety, which should solve bottlenecks. Mr Schippers of Health, Well-being and Sport will say a few things about what this is about in the area of confused people. In general, I am very afraid to set up a committee when we see that things are not going well in the performance of tasks, legislation and regulation. In a way, that is what is happening. With regard to the Public Prosecutor's Office, there will be a committee, but it will be internal, which is right and close to the top of the matter and can intervene immediately in the matter where it really has to be done, as the Hoekstra Committee's report shows. I then asked the Attorney General at the Supreme Court to supervise this in the context of his duties. I think that is a good move with regard to the Public Prosecutor's Office. At the same time, we have asked for inspections to be carried out, and I have also said so in order to look cross-border. I think this fits within the framework that we now have. It is precisely because of the points raised by Mr Van Nispen, namely bureaucracy, that I would not be in favour of another committee being set up to look at them. I shall come back to Mrs Berndsen's suggestion on that point. I would not be in favour of this because I do not see its added value. Mr Van Nispen also said that this committee should be a question mark for people who are now in acute trouble. That's exactly what you shouldn't be investing in a commission, but just in line, with the police. That's what it says in my letter. If people consider that they have become victims of a similar case that has not been adequately dealt with, they should be able to report it to the police. If they have acutely confused persons in the vicinity, this should be reported to the Security Houses or to the care lines and the healthcare providers available for that purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u164	The report doesn't read as an incident. There are many more cases where it has gone wrong, where similar mistakes have been made. Several speakers have given examples of this. Now the minister says those people can just go to the police. My point is that these people deserve some sort of Hoekstra committee. How does the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u165	That's exactly what I just said. I can't rule out other cases. That's what I said at the press conference. I have also heard the examples. If agreements and laws and regulations are not properly implemented by the Public Prosecutor's Office in relation to the police or other chain partners, I cannot rule out the possibility that there are other cases that have literally fallen through the loopholes of the law. The answer to Mr Van Nispen's question is that I cannot rule that out. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u166	The question was whether these people do not deserve a committee similar to the Hoekstra committee because then they get the truth on the table. They too have a right to do so. The minister's referring them to the police. In the Minister's reply, I already hear that people who know people in their environment who are confused should go to regular care. In an ideal situation, it would be. But how long have we been talking in the Chamber about the connection between punishment and care that is not yet in order? It's very tough. It is precisely for this reason that I think it is important to identify these bottlenecks as long as it is necessary, to ensure that something happens to them and that we are the point of contact for people who indicate that something is not going well. At the same time, this research function is also important. I would ask the Minister to think a little longer about this, precisely because of the importance that we all attach to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u167	I understand very well that Mr Van Nispen is making this point because I myself raised this point in my discussions following the report with the Public Prosecutor and with the National Police. There will be people who recognize themselves in this case, I said. There'll be people who say they've been abandoned just as much as the Van You family and the Borst family. I asked both of them how we are going to ensure that these complaints get where they need to go and that there is follow-up, that something happens to them. The answer to that is in the letter. The police realizes that they are making sure that complaints about the way the police or the Public Prosecutor's Office dealt with the case are picked up. Mr Van Nispen is right that we cannot set up a committee for everyone and that we have done so in this case because of the coincidence of circumstances. This showed that there are serious problems that need to be solved. The answer is therefore that the proposals I have made are going to ensure that this is done. I'm gonna watch that. Mr Van Oosten has actually asked the same question: how do we know how many people are in the same situation? The answer is: we do not know that. We do have numbers. We know we have convicts who aren't in jail. We know that we have people who have to give DNA from whom we haven't taken DNA. And we know nearby that there are 60,000 mutations of people who are confused. They do not necessarily have to hit one person, but we have 60 000 of them, of which we do not know whether they are in the same emergency situation as Mr Van U. If we knew, of course they were acting on it. That is precisely the reason why it is so important that Mr Schippers and I work together to tackle these bottlenecks effectively with the plan of action confused people. Mrs Helder asked for more attention to be paid to her motion on the obligation to appear at the hearing. She and I exchange views on this at regular intervals. I have already said in the introduction that I expect the Council to point out to the Court the disadvantages of DNA collection at the time of the meeting when I enter into the discussion with the Council on Monday. The same argument is likely to be used for this aspect. I have already said this myself once myself: gosh, it would not be nice if... I know that Mr Van Oosten has asked questions about this too. For the same reason... We have also found that many victims do not appreciate the presence of the perpetrator in their view at the trial. They may be counterproductive, but Mrs Helder and I have had this debate before. Mr Van Oosten asked: how do we prevent a district agent who is raving at the gate from being heard when there is a need to act? The answer to this is in the cabinet response. This just can't happen anymore. It must and will be the case that a district agent also knows through which channels he must draw attention to his questions and problems. It's just supposed to be fixed in the line. Mrs Berndsen said that it is not possible for a district police officer to organise an arrest team. She's right about that. This is also one of the starting points of the improvement programme, which is also going to run with regard to the National Police. I have already discussed the budget of the Public Prosecutor's Office in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u168	Mr Van Oosten has another question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u169	I'm gonna chew on that anyway. The Minister now says: in the line we are going to solve that. But that's exactly my point. If that neighborhood cop tries so hard to be heard, how's it going next time? How does the Minister view this? What kind of a signal is being sent to the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, so that they really learn lessons from this and people who do not do their job, who do not take responsibility for their job, what we have done so well on paper, that they will do next time? That mistakes are sometimes made, I understand, but I don't like this again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u170	[[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan niet anders dan onderstrepen dat de heer Van Oosten daar gelijk in heeft.]] We do not want this to happen again, I say in a general sense. By the way, in the end, things went wrong with the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Honorary Advocate General, I would add in defence of the district agent. In one case there was indeed talk with the RIE (Regional Intervention Unit). So there too, that scaling up has been done, but in the end, it broke down in the D.A.'s office. So that accusation is justified. This problem is now being effectively addressed within the police, because this cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u171	Let there be no misunderstanding: that district cop is just a hero. We all share that. I believe that Mr Recourt indicated that at the hearing. Let's get that straight. However, the point that I have asked a question about and which the Minister may still have to come to is: where is the learning capacity in the organisation, in all these organisations, where are things that go wrong, where are things that may differ from the appropriate one, for example a demand by the Public Prosecutor, to which the judge completely and completely ignores by condemning a person by a factor of ten, after which an order for imprisonment is given once again, which is not arrested? Where is the critical self-evaluation in this respect? How will the Minister organise and ensure that this happens and continues to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u172	The answer lies in the choice now made by the Public Prosecutor, following the Hoekstra Committee's report, to make one prosecutor responsible for the whole case. Then you'll see what the anomalies are. You'll see something special is happening. At the same time, I have noted that the Public Prosecutor's Office is monitoring the functioning of the Honorary Advocates-General. In this respect, too, the question arises as to whether, given the facts that have arisen, it is wise to continue the system, which had many advantages. That question lies with the Public Prosecutor's Office, as was also stated in the cabinet response. Mrs Helder and Mr Bontes have indicated that, as far as they are concerned, Mr Bolhaar should resign. That's how I understood it. As far as I am concerned, that is not the issue. It is not because the report makes it painfully clear that there is not just one organisation where it has gone wrong, but a series of organisations. There is not just one person who is responsible for the whole problem, but a whole series of people, and therefore within a whole range of organisations. You can say that it may be a good idea if one person in that series of all those organizations takes the main responsibility and then resigns, but I think it is much more important that the Public Prosecutor's Office, given the seriousness of this matter, really learns from this issue. I also feel at the state's attorney's office that they're having a great time with this case. They realize that they have really failed fundamentally and that they have really failed, and that is how I formulated it myself, rather than actually abandoning society, especially the families and the relatives. I have a genuine desire at the prosecution's office to make every effort in the very short term to ensure that this can never happen again. Then I choose to give priority to the urgency of the improvement programme and to leave its urgency and necessity to the current chairman of the College.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u173	It is true that not one single person has gone wrong. It was a series of organizations. That's true. However, there is a person responsible for the proceedings at the Public Prosecutor's Office. The fact is that most, the largest and, as far as my group is concerned, the most painful mistakes have also been made in the Public Prosecutor's Office. I mentioned it in my first term. We believe that, without these mistakes, both victims would still be alive with a certain probability. Mr Bolhaar is working on his second term. He can only be reappointed once. Mr Bolhuis himself said that I have been working within this organisation for 30 years. I combine this with the fact that the Court of Auditors said in 2012 that the criminal justice chain is far below par. Today, three years later, my group does indeed believe that Mr Bolhaar can no longer have room for the necessary policy and mentality change. I would like to emphasise that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u174	I heard Mrs. Helder right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u175	Two people were killed who wouldn't have been killed if they had worked properly. Someone has to take responsibility for that. The Minister of Security and Justice just got here. So that's gonna be a tough case. Mrs Berndsen said that if Opstelten had still been there, I would have sent him away. But you can't do that right now. Surely someone has to be held responsible for this very bad state of affairs? You can't just say he apologized, and now we're gonna go back to the order of the day and pretend like nothing's going on? There's been some serious mistakes. Someone has to be held responsible for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u176	We'll just park this question, because Mrs Berndsen wants to correct something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u177	Yes. I did not say that we would send the Minister away, but that the Minister should have drawn his own conclusions on the basis of this report. That is an essential difference. I think it's important that this be marked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u178	This is marked and noted in the Acts. I give the floor to the Minister to answer the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u179	In response to Mr Bontes' interruption, I must first set out the following. I hadn't done that yet, because I didn't have to, but now I'm telling you. It's two ongoing criminal investigations. There is no established causal link between the errors made and the deaths of the two persons, as a result of which the report was written. Mr Bontes has already drawn a conclusion. That puts him ahead of the criminal investigation. I would like to point out here that that is not possible. I will not go into that point, for the simple reason that we know that if everyone had done their job, Mr Van U.'s involvement would have been virtually impossible on two dates. I say "almost" because there are many other options. However, it is absolutely impossible to reach the conclusion that Mr Bontes has just drawn, including on the Hoekstra Committee's report. He then says that there are two people who are responsible, and since the minister is only just sitting, he should resign. I can only say to Mr Bontes that I have full political responsibility for the mistakes that have been made. Even though I was not yet a minister, it is nevertheless my responsibility. I have therefore looked at the question of whether it is appropriate to allow people to resign while they still have so much work ahead of them. I choose that the work should be done by these people. The assessment of whether the work is being done will take place in the future. I have asked the Attorney General to monitor on my behalf and to ensure that the implementation is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u180	This unsub was just supposed to be in jail for three years the moment the murders were committed. Then they wouldn't have committed it. That's a causal link. We can like it or not, but it is. Now I'm being blamed for asking questions while the case is still under trial: that's a doer of death who's always being used against the Chamber. This man should have been in jail so he couldn't have committed those murders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u181	In fact, Mr Bontes' remark is not correct, but I am not going to go into it for the simple reason that the case is really under trial. The comments that we could make on this could, on the contrary, lead to the criminal proceedings being affected in a way that both the Borst family and the Van U. family do not want. Mrs Berndsen and Mr Van der Staaij asked how we ensured that the recommendations were implemented. We have two ways of doing that. One is that the Public Prosecutor has a clear improvement programme led by a Chief Prosecutor. I also said that I think it is important to monitor it. I want to keep my own finger on the wrist. That's what I asked the Attorney General to do. So that's in the D.A.'s domain. Mr Schippers and I have said that we think it is important that the interfaces are also monitored fully. That's what the Safety and Justice Inspectorate and the Health Inspectorate do. Mrs Berndsen then asked whether it would be an idea to ask the Hoekstra Committee to look into this too. I have thought about this and I have just consulted Mr Hoekstra. He has, of course, still to discuss it with his fellow committee members, but he has assured me that he would be happy to advise the Public Prosecutor on the progress made in implementing the various recommendations after one year, or as far as it makes sense. I am also pleased that he is prepared to do so, and I hope that this will satisfy Mrs Berndsen's wish. Nevertheless, the Attorney General at the Supreme Court will inform me, on the basis of his authority, of the way in which the Public Prosecutor's Office, in his opinion, implements the recommendations of the Committee. I would like to emphasise this in view of its special and independent position. Furthermore, I have now understood from him that he is prepared to understand himself with Mr Hoekstra if necessary. Thus, the link between the Attorney General and the Hoekstra Committee has also been established. Otherwise, the two inspections will do their job. I assume that I have answered the question of the SP and the SGP on supervision. We will inform the Chamber about the state of play of all actions taken in the course of 2016, as stated in the policy letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u182	I thank the Minister for accepting my group's suggestion. All I hear him say is that Hoekstra wants to look at and advise the D.A. I would like him to do so again more broadly, as was the case in the Hoekstra Committee's investigation. He must therefore look at the police, mental health care and the Public Prosecutor's Office and inform the Minister and the Chamber about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u183	That makes sense to me. I just took a look at my colleague from Health. He didn't hurt me. The conversation I'm going to have with the Hoekstra Committee will run along this line and I'll inform the Chamber about the results.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u184	That seems to me to be a valuable commitment. I had also asked if the Minister would be prepared to indicate at what time we can expect what actions to take. On a number of points, the Minister says he will report on it, but I would like to have a timetable so that we know when something needs to be ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u185	That is also a point for me. The report was issued last Thursday. It has not yet been discussed in such detail and in detail. I will, of course, inform the Chamber about the timetable as soon as everything is in order. I shall provide that before 1 November 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u186	I have two more questions to answer. The first was about the business case of the public prosecutor from 2012 in relation to the lead times and the different working methods. I asked why this was not discussed with the Chamber at the time. At that time there was also the idea that the moment of decline should be brought forward. My second question was about the search at the state's attorney's office. Is it true that the college didn't know until much later? Is it also true that everything went wrong because there were capacity problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u187	I'm gonna have to look in my papers. I thought I answered that first question. Now it's just a question of where I wrote that down. As far as the second question is concerned, the report gives detailed consideration to the exact course of the search. One thing is certain, namely that I have already said that the search should simply take place after 1 May 2010, as I said at first instance. The College itself has also agreed to this. Earlier this was not decided after consultation with the national consultation of forensic officers and the managing directors of the differences parquets due to the time lag. The thinking was also stated in the report, but I repeat that there was a risk that, because of a number of years passed, people would object to the inclusion of DNA material in the DNA database. Such objections are also regularly granted. In addition, there was indeed a massive recovery of the DNA blocks that had cost a lot of capacity. Eventually, the College of Attorneys General was not involved, so I understand from the Public Prosecutor's Office, because the substantive experts thought they were making the right assessment. I think we can think differently about that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u188	I am very pleased that the Minister has decided to go back to 2010. I was a little freaked out by these capacity problems. I just wanted to make sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u189	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u190	The Minister began his reply by saying that he is politically responsible for the implementation of what is now being taken over. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u191	This means that I am well aware that I have a great personal interest as a minister in ensuring that the recommendations such as those are properly resolved, and that similar problems and the problems of the public prosecutor have led to a broadening of the mandate. There are problems in other areas too. They need to be addressed effectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u192	Thank you for that. The minister says he will include the Chamber in the update on the execution and inform the Chamber. On the other hand, this means that we can hold the Minister to what he has committed himself to, and that this has the full political weight you can imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u193	I think that is the way in which the relationship between Parliament and the government has been shaped over the last 200 years. I attach great importance to this tradition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u194	That's a generality. In this particular case, it is an understatement of the weight and gravity of the case. I hope the Minister says: this weighs very heavily on me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u195	That's right. That's what I indicated when I said my opening sentences. I said: I am standing here from my position with lead in my shoes because of the consequences arising from the report before me today in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u196	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about a dramatic and tragic event. People who needed help and protection did not get them, with fatal consequences. Undoubtedly, like the Chamber, I have read the research report with growing amazement, with horror and sometimes with shame. I saw an accumulation of terrible mistakes, incomprehensible omissions, but above all poor communication and cooperation and absence of action. We are ultimately responsible for this and we take responsibility for it. The fact that what happened might have been prevented makes it all the more difficult to accept. We are now all facing the task of doing what we can to prevent repetition. Like the Minister of Security and Justice, I would like to express my condolences to Bart van U.'s family and to Mrs Borst's family. It is inconceivable what they have had to go through and now have to go through again as a result of the research report and the discussion that this report leads to. A number of Members have rightly said that this applies to more people, because there are more people who recognise this from their own situation. We are also obliged to act upon them. With the Chamber, I would like to discuss what we can do to prevent the mistakes that have been made from being made again. I am not thinking of leaning back: we have to pick up and tackle. I can assure Mrs Berndsen that this is a matter of honour. I thank the Hoekstra Committee for its thorough work. I will continue with a general introduction on mental health care and the situation there and then move on to the lessons learned in the Hoekstra report. The problem of confused persons is not new. Chief Bouman reported that in the hearing last Monday. Previous evaluations of the BOPZ Act also raised the question of how to better deal with this group. However difficult it is to solve these problems, it is evident from the fact that they are very persistent problems. We must do everything we can to do better than we have done so far. That is exactly why we have opted for a different approach in mental health care. We have chosen this other approach in consultation with the sector. In this context, we have indeed agreed with the ggz to reduce the total bed capacity in the ggz over a period of eight years. This bed reduction up to 2020 is driven by qualitative considerations, namely improving care, more early intervention and thus preventing worsening and escalation. A comparison with other countries shows that we have a very high number of beds in the Netherlands. The WHO Mental health atlas indicates that the Netherlands has 18.7 beds per 1,000 inhabitants. Germany has 7.5 and Austria 6.5. The Netherlands is also almost the slowest in the bed dismantling process. Over the last 20 years, we have reduced 18% to 100,000 inhabitants, where Denmark shows a reduction of 64.5% and Luxembourg even a reduction of almost 77%. We have to make a cover and not a cover where we count beds. The focus is now on the end and then the situation is so bad that sometimes you really have to put people away. We need to focus on the front of the chain: care nearby, care in the neighborhood and prevention. That's not easy, and it's gonna take a lot of punches. I am not saying that it will always go well, but it is essential that we make this change. Ggz expenditure grows year by year. Yes, we moderated growth, but growth is still growth. I therefore find it too easy to say: it is because of the cuts. I think we're dealing with a very complex problem here. We have to look at this for a short time, especially after the impetus given by the Hoekstra committee to what we should do, but also for a long time. We will have to make a very difficult transition from repairing at the end to intervention at the beginning. So I think it is important that we continue with the overall improvement we have put in place. In other words, we need to get rid of the focus on beds and focus on the intensification of care in the neighbourhood. This structure has been set in motion and must now quickly become robust. I am talking about social neighbourhood teams in which various healthcare professionals work together and in which the alert of people with whom things are not going well can be quickly shared. These are not only district teams that signal people on the streets, but also neighbourhood teams that sometimes signal behind the front door that something is not going well. Sometimes it is still quiet, even though things are not going well for a long time. I am also thinking of the FACT teams that guide people at an early stage and that are focused on stabilisation, preventing worse and guiding people to a better situation. The practical supporter ggz who is accessible to the general practitioner without barriers and in whom people can enter without conditions is also an important link. There people can make first contact and appeal to the ggz, something that still has a huge stigma. People there can ask for help from someone who in their experience is not yet part of the ggz. Care should focus on this improvement. The care should use family information and be open to that family. That's gotta be much better. With the introduction of the family confidant, important steps have been taken within the ggz, but we also want to anchor them in the new mandatory ggz Act. The Hoekstra Committee's report shows that cooperation and information sharing is crucial. In order to closely monitor the construction of care in the neighbourhood, it is monitored. If we have the data, we may be able to adjust it if we do not think it is going well enough. The Hoekstra Committee states in its report that relevant information from the police and the judiciary is often lacking from the healthcare professionals and that the care professional lacks access to information from the police and the judiciary. Unfortunately, this is also apparent from the facts. The transfer of information from police and justice to care was lacking in the situation described by Hoekstra. That information was missing from the care, but often it is the other way around. I therefore believe that we should not rush into the reflex of changing medical professional secrecy. We must ensure that too close an interpretation of medical professional secrecy does not prevent the best possible action and action from being taken. I repeat it to the IGZ in last Monday's hearing: medical confidentiality is fairly strict about what someone has, but not about the fact that someone can be dangerous. Mr Van der Staaij therefore rightly said that you can also share a great deal of information with the current professional secrecy if you sit one abstraction level higher. That requires awareness inside and outside care. As it happens this week, I have sent the Chamber an extensive factsheet on medical confidentiality. I prepared that factsheet in consultation with the sector. The sector also had questions about this. The sector said: "We always hear in debates that medical professional secrecy needs to be extended, but we see that acting as an anchor stone of ours. If we deal separately with medical confidentiality, no one reports with a question of concern because we fear that we will then talk to others about it. We must avoid that." At the same time, I have written to the Chamber that we must do something if it turns out that something is pinching. I think it is our first move now and that factsheet is a good first step. We will have to talk much more about what medical professional secrecy actually means. What do you like and what don't you like? We must give an answer to this, precisely in order to avoid thinking: we are not bringing the ggz in, because they are not allowed to say anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u197	The Minister explains that the bed dismantling in the ggz and the millions of savings lead to a future improvement in quality. However, I hear from the staff from the current ggz practice that they are completely full, up to the crisis shelter. They have to point people at the door and drag people to give them a place somewhere. We know from the police that she lost 20% of her time to confused people. Does the Minister recognise that the increase in the number of people confused on the street is a result of the bed dismantling and the shortening of the intake time in the ggz? Does she see that causal link? Moreover, the Minister did not see this as a problem before, but fortunately, yesterday's letter changed. That's profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u198	It's not like I've only been worried about the increase in the number of confused people on the street since last week. We have already discussed this twice in the Committee on Health in the last six months. When we received signals in December, we had it examined whether there could be a causal link. We have been linked back to the fact that we are dealing with a very diverse group. In this group are people who are demented, people with addiction problems and people who are confused, but not dangerous. The group is so diverse that it really makes a solution difficult. There are also a lot of groups involved. That is where we will also have to find part of the solution. It is too simple to say that it is a consequence of the fact that I have moderated growth. That is what I have done, by the way, because cutting back is that you spend less on something. We do not, because year after year we spend more on the ggz. We have moderated growth and this has happened almost in all sectors of the Netherlands. I also know sectors that have really had to cut back and they have shrunk. That doesn't apply to the ggz. So you cannot say that this is because we have moderated growth. What is possible is that there is something wrong with the construction of the outpatient care. That's why I set up a monitor. When I get the first data from that monitor, I can see what the apron is, where we need a tooth and where we need to build more. Meanwhile, we're not sitting still, look at the social ward teams and the POH-ggz. The percentage of general practitioners with such a POH has grown from 43 to 77 this year. We all do that to build care in the neighborhood. I think we should go through with that. If something goes wrong, we have to fix it, but we don't have to reverse it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u199	Minister, can you explain to the Acts what POH-ggz means?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u200	This is the practical supporter who deals with patients with ggz problems for the general practitioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u201	Thank you. Mr Van Nispen, your second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u202	I'm very much in favour of building up good care, but you shouldn't do that after you've aborted the existing care. Before you break anything down, make sure the new care is in order. The Minister comes with a monitor, but we are now discussing the report by the Hoekstra Committee, which reveals the paradox that on the one hand the number of beds is reduced and the recording time is reduced and, on the other hand, there is an increasing demand from society for the ggz to also concern itself with the safety of society. The ggz should increasingly take care of confused people, also because the police are so busy doing so. Then it is very difficult to get the answer: we are going to keep an eye on that in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u203	I do not agree with the view expressed by Mr Van Nispen that we have reduced the number of beds at an enormous rate. Bed dismantling in the Netherlands is relatively small compared to, for example, Denmark and Luxembourg. Those differences are really very large and I dare to say that we are doing it very slowly. We do, because it is necessary to improve care and to be able to do much more at an early stage. It's really too easy to paint the picture that we're cutting down and making huge cuts. The practice shows that we are only reducing a few percent and only moderate growth. That's a different picture. I am not saying that it can have nothing to do with each other. Maybe there's influence. I'll have a monitor run and we'll be able to look at it later. I think it's way too easy to translate it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u204	The Minister shares the view of the Hoekstra Commission that medical professional secrecy is interpreted too closely in practice. It has therefore sent the sector a factsheet on how to deal with professional secrecy. However, about what an aid worker can say to the police, she writes: you can rely on your confidentiality obligation and only in very exceptional circumstances you have to deviate from it. So I don't think that factsheet is helping parties to share information more easily.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u205	In that case, it is information that is really covered by medical professional secrecy. We have agreed exceptions to this, and they are indeed quite strict. As the Superintendent indicated at the hearing, you can go one level of abstraction higher. Then you don't have to say "this person is schizophrenic" but you can say "this person in that Security House can be dangerous at times" if you are a doctor of the ggz involved in that Security House. I fully agree with Mr Van der Staaij and the Hoekstra Committee that we are too close to medical professional secrecy. As a result, information may be lost which should be shared. We need to take action on this, because we really need to achieve a better way of working.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u206	That's what I hear when I'm on work visits in professional practice. When you ask through, they do say: there can actually be more than one realizes. But the culture of being very careful with that is persistent. What actions are being taken to break that culture and to create a culture in which it is easier to share information from the care sector with the safety chain?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u207	I don't think anything's as difficult as a culture change. That takes a lot of effort. We have been working on this cultural change for some time now, and we are actually doing so as a result of the events in Alphen aan den Rijn. The fact that the care had not reported anything at all was really an important part of the problem there. This is contrary to what we read in the report, because it shows that it is precisely the concern that did not get the information from the justice chain. On the basis of these two cases, I say that we must continue to work on this. Since then, we have organised conferences and the profession itself has organised many conversations among themselves. Finally, a factsheet has been created. I am not saying at all that we are there with that, because paper is patient. Mr Segers said that we should organise conferences where people work together to improve this step by step. I believe that is indeed the only way to change a culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u208	The Minister explains very well what professional secrecy means. I recognize this, because in the police organization we always thought that almost nothing could be shared. I regret, however, that the letter from GGZ Nederland to the Chamber says: we pay a great deal of attention to the consideration that an aid worker in the Safety House makes between the free access to care and the breaking of professional secrecy. Then don't let GGZ Nederland talk about "breaking up professional secrecy" but about "seeing how to share the information." If you don't do that and talk about breaking professional secrecy, everyone's gonna get riled up again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u209	I agree with Mrs Berndsen. Sometimes there may be reason to break it. That's okay, too. The factsheet says in which situations you're allowed to break it. In the usual consultation situations, it is a matter of how you deal with professional secrecy. I'll let that be part of the action I'm going to take around the confused people. That is really very important, even though a lot is already happening. It is and remains a point of attention. On the one hand, we want care and on the other hand... If you deal with it a little more conveniently, you don't have to tell us anything and you can warn someone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u210	And the language is extremely important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u211	First of all, I would like to point out that the Minister's words make it much clearer that medical professional secrecy should not be interpreted as rigidly as I thought it should be read in the letter. As far as I am concerned, the Minister indicated with caution that she was only going to examine how it should be interpreted. It is, of course, possible that I did not read the letter properly and then the whole thing is up to me. I can now hear the Minister explicitly say: you can sometimes have an abstraction level higher, there can be an incredible amount of sharing, and that may have to be done. As the hearing showed once again how extremely important it is to be aware that the information that can be shared is also shared, I would like to hear from the Minister what measures it can take in the short term on this point. How is she going to ensure that it is known to all ggz institutions in the Netherlands? How is she going to ensure that doctors can't say so easily "that medical confidentiality doesn't give me that space at all"? If the head of the IGZ is so sure about it, like the minister, then it must certainly be quite easy to implement it in all these organizations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u212	Doctors are raised with medical professional secrecy. That is an important cornerstone of care. Various experiences have taught us that you also need to share information. That is just as important and that is why we will have to deal with it in a convenient way. In my letter, I indicated, and I insist, that we should continue to look at bottlenecks arising from medical professional secrecy. Nor should we be rigid in considering what something has been created and whether we can do enough with it or not. I spoke to Mr Hoekstra about this. He says he can imagine that sometimes it sheds a bit. I think we should keep looking at that, but I also think there can be a lot more than people think. That's what my letter is mostly about. We're going to do local triage; we're going to hook up the ggz directly to Security Houses. In most cases this is already the case, but not in all Safety Houses. I really noticed that Security Houses are very well known in circles of justice and police, but not elsewhere. If you ask an average psychiatrist if he has any contact with Security Houses, he says, "Safehouses"? Never heard of it. That is also something that we need to improve with each other. We work too much in columns. That goes for me, too, but yes, I often travel here, then you hear from each other again and you work together on that. You think something is known, but in the run-up to this debate I have found that it is not at all so there are psychiatrists who have never heard of a Security House. That's why I think the safety house's reputation and medical confidentiality should be taken with the pursuit team.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u213	The latter I very much agree with the Minister. I was looking for something, but I can't give the answer either, because of a lack of knowledge, that's what I'm saying, honestly, to some sort of dome or something that can give a signal, can give a brief reflection of what we've been exchanging here in this Chamber debate and what the Minister has exchanged with the Chamber in the letter on the plan of action. I am referring to medical professional secrecy and, in particular, to the fact that this does not have to stand in the way. People must become aware of it and it must be told that medical professional secrecy does not have to stand in the way of sharing information at an abstraction level just a little higher. It may happen that confused people come to atrocities like the one we are sitting here for this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u214	We have just finished a whole journey with the sector. I sent the factsheet this week, that was part of that trajectory. Mr Van der Staaij says that he thinks it is too strict. If you translate it into this situation, isn't it too strict? That is why I say: this is a permanent journey. We have just gone through this process with the profession in paper form. In my view, we should now go through the practice of the profession and make sure that this message is clear, through the hunting teams that we are now working on. Perhaps I will ask the Superintendent again: can you not even translate what you said in the hearing into practice? Then we can give that to those teams, too. I think this is an intensive process, which we should continue to pay attention to together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u215	It's one thing that sometimes goes wrong between different professionals, between different agencies. A second is the "s' that is at least as dramatic as it goes wrong between instances and the family, in this case the Van U family. He didn't get any signals. They have tried to help, they have tried to catch him in all kinds of ways, and yet there has been a fatal tragedy. How do we prevent information from remaining with the authorities? How do we get that information to the family?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u216	The family found a closed door in many places, including the ggz. I'll be right back to what kind of trouble there is. We see in the ggz in any case that the family is extremely important and that in this case the family has been kept out for a very long time. We have appointed a family confidant within the institutions. That has meant a huge step in that direction. In the law mandatory ggz we give the family a much more prominent role. I'll talk about the time-out later, where I see a great advantage. I see a disadvantage too, but I'll get to that in a minute. I think that family as a common thread should really be given a much greater role, especially in the case of confused persons or people who are ill and who are included.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u217	That was indeed my suggestion about the Own Force Conference, in which all those people are literally sitting around the table and exchanging that information, whether abstract or not. That's where the family comes in. This is not just a matter of authorities; the family is fully involved. So that is the suggestion I have put to the Minister, which I am now putting to her again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u218	What do you mean by the conference? Sorry to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u219	The Own Force Conference is a means. In it, everyone involved is sitting around the table and everyone is wondering: what is my role? Information shall be exchanged. The family has a prominent role in it and is part of it. She plays a crucial role in care and care, but then she also hears what risks are possible, based on an assessment by the professionals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u220	We already have the local triage in preparation. We make sure that every municipality has a local triage. I'll see how we can secure the role of the family. So I'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u221	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u222	I come now to the problem of confused people, whom I sent to the Chamber yesterday on the main lines, because we are having this debate today. By the way, that piece isn't from VWS alone. We have not only written this with the colleagues of Security and Justice and the VNG; all kinds of other groups, social services, insurance companies and the police are also involved. The letter sets out the main lines of this approach and these guidelines need to be fleshed out. That's what we'll do with each other. I would like to point out that this is about work in progress. We're gonna get straight to work on the things we can do. During the journey there will be new bottlenecks and challenges that we will have to tackle together. I'll keep the Chamber informed of this trajectory. I would very much like one person who is a figurehead and pulls the case, and who is supported by it. I'm looking into who that might be right now. How exactly am I gonna organize that? How are we going to link that trajectory again? Another question was what my role is in the trajectory of those confused persons. I'm responsible to the Chamber and I'm going to report to the Chamber what's happening. However, I do not do that alone, because a great deal has to be done at local level. I don't want every single column. I will send a letter to the Chamber of Summer, before the end of the recess, about who that one person has become, how we are going to organise it, what the timetable is and how I am going to report to the Chamber, so that the Chamber can also keep its finger on the wrist.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u223	The Health Minister is looking for a figurehead. The Minister of Justice has said: I follow Hoekstra, for Justice, that figurehead is the prosecutor. Will the Minister state in the letter... Actually, I'd like to know now, if she already knows, how does that relate to your figurehead? We're gonna have two more captains on a ship. How does this minister respond to Hoekstra's recommendation, which says that the district attorney was written out of the plans, quickly write him back into it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u224	I would have joined the law in a moment, and I would have indicated that I would follow that recommendation. In the current bill in the Chamber, the D.A. has gone out and the medical director has these tasks. Why is that? Because in practice he or she already has those tasks; the prosecutor has that role under the BOPZ Act, but is very often not there and the medical director then takes up that role. That's a role in which the medical director doesn't always feel comfortable. They then feel that they have different roles in relation to their patients. They find it clearer when the role of giving advice on the state of the disorder, which from a care point of view is the danger and the options, lies with the medical director and not with the district attorney. After all, it is someone who has done nothing wrong in principle. To record that person is quite something. In that we will see a role for the prosecutor, if we can agree with each other that he is there. I'll be on the pursuit teams and on what needs to be done at the local level. Of course, the district attorney has an important role to play in this. It is mainly about care, care for people who may be confused and sitting on the streets, people who do not cause nuisance, but who we actually think need more attention from. We prefer to have these people in a care process and under the pans, with good guidance. Then the whole area of justice is not at all present. We also need to organise this better together with the municipalities than we have done so far. In the care column and in the social care column there are also many parties. I want to deal with this together with the municipalities. They are very motivated and they jumped enthusiastically on the car to really do this better. We have good examples in Amsterdam and The Hague. They show how it can be done and we want to apply it massively in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u225	I very much agree with this Minister when it comes to the approach, but there is still light between the Hoekstra Committee and what she is saying now. If I read the Hoekstra committee correctly, not only does Hoekstra say: let's give that officer the role that he actually had, but actually didn't, which is why that medical director is now stuck. Hoekstra also says: we need a director, a senior director, these are literally his words between criminal law and civil law, and we think this should be the officer. If you put that emphasis on the civilian side, wouldn't it make more sense to put that director on the other side of the wall, on the civilian side?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u226	The Chamber held the debate on this matter with my colleague from the Justice Department. I think we will come back to that, at least when we deal with the legislative proposal, but perhaps sooner. In any case, we shall take a good look at that. I can well imagine that the director of medicine says: I sometimes feel trapped in the role I now have.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u227	The SP is positive about the Minister's idea of hunting teams. That appeals to us, because they have the task of identifying bottlenecks and lifting them to a national level, as I read in the Minister's letter. My question is what happens to those signals. In the same spirit, the SP has proposed the setting up of a committee on health and safety, which may need to be included between the two inspections. The Minister's thoughts also touch on this, but we have a somewhat firmer committee in mind, which can also investigate older cases and which can form a nationwide hotline, which can be the link we seek between punishment and care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u228	I don't call it a committee, I call it a team, because I don't want people to study things. I really want us to improve. I don't mean that childish. The focus of these teams is to pick up and improve things in practice. One of these things may be that bottlenecks have to be raised to the national level. A lot of these things play at local level and are also stuck locally. This has to be resolved and it can be very good if one municipality learns from another if we connect solutions. I need a team that links between municipalities where things are going well and municipalities where things are not going well. I am very glad that people have said locally: we must ensure that we manage to do it locally. I don't just want to think, "I'm doing great, I'm trying." I really feel responsible for getting this organised better with each other. That's why I think there should be a team. If old cases are reported to the police or if things have gone wrong in the care and people think that the inspection should look at them, then we still have the way along the Health Inspectorate. I think it is important that I have read that in the report too, that we prevent it from going on like this. I want us to actually improve something. I feel very committed to this and I really want to get to work. Hence the idea of that team.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u229	I repeat that I am very pleased with that. A lot of things have to be done locally. That is how we organised it, but there are also national bottlenecks. My concern is that these national bottlenecks do not end up in one central place. It is precisely from that idea that I repeat that I support the idea of these hunting teams that our idea came from that committee and it gets a broader range of tasks, in addition to the hunting teams. Let me make this clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u230	The idea that the Minister of Justice and I have developed is that bottlenecks that exist will come to us and we will immediately see how we can solve them so that it can continue at the local level. At the local level it has to happen, in the neighborhoods, the neighborhoods, the trams and where confused people get in trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u231	It's always nice to use success formulas. I would like to mention the city of The Hague. There the police have a very good partnership with the ggz. On this cooperation a motion was recently adopted in the Chamber, the Oskam/Bruins Slot motion. We had the Minister's plan of action yesterday. It is known that initiators always want their name mentioned. Well, I guess I will. How is the Minister going to incorporate that motion into her plan of action?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u232	I do not really have that motion in mind, but I do know about the situation in The Hague. I also know about the situation in Amsterdam and the situation in Tilburg. The models differ from each other, but they have in common that they work, because one can act very quickly. People know where to find each other. If something happens, people know what the next step must be and how to get someone into care or into the police station, depending on what's going on. I think that's where the crux is. Municipalities and the VNG have told us: please do not come up with a blueprint of how to do it everywhere, because we have different models that work very well. However, let us ensure that municipalities that have not picked up properly and that have not done well will manage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u233	I suggest we let the minister tell her story for a while now. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u234	Under municipal direction, of course, it goes on at local level. There are a lot of actors involved and we will have to do it together in the end. The crux here is a good organization: finding each other quickly, sharing information and doing what is needed. Good examples such as Amsterdam and The Hague are in the shop window and aim is to have a facility in every municipality at the end of this year where the assessment of confused persons takes place. All those who come into this picture will be given a personal plan, focusing on problems in areas such as debt, housing and participation, and on psychological problems. If someone is not insured at the time they are found on the street or if they cannot be established, then municipalities and health insurance companies ensure that the person is automatically provided with health insurance, so that the necessary care can be received. Improvements are also needed to enable us to work in the acute ggz. We had an analysis of the bottlenecks in the acute ggz and sent them to the Chamber in May, together with an approach to resolve those bottlenecks. The relevant parties are also involved in these measures. Of course, I have asked myself what the current legislative proposals, the proposal of compulsory ggz law, the Health and Force Act and the Forensic Care Act can contribute to reducing the number of confused people on the street, such as Bart van U. First of all, I would like to stress that only a very limited part of the group of confused people will be covered by these laws. Not everyone has a disorder and imminent danger or a relationship between disorder and danger. The fact that someone is just confused or giving homeless or trouble does not provide sufficient grounds for forced treatment. This is still a matter of restricting fundamental rights, which are also guaranteed internationally. Infringing this requires strict safeguards and can only be done if there is really no other way, with forced admission and treatment on the other hand if it has to be done. I believe that with these laws the possibilities of helping someone like Bart from you and protecting his environment are really increasing. First of all, the proposal of the Law on compulsory ggz, which replaces the Law on special admissions to psychiatric hospitals, provides for the possibility of compulsory treatment. We can't right now. Under the BOPZ Act, you can take someone on duty, but it's not a treatment law. So you can't continue to treat someone if that person refuses. The mandatory ggz Act puts the necessary treatment at the centre rather than the forced admission of a patient at the heart of the matter and also makes it possible to provide this forced treatment in an outpatient manner. As a result, we do not have to wait until the danger is so serious that it can only be removed by a forced recording, as under the BOPZ Act now, but we can treat it much faster before there is danger. The law also contains several interventions, including guidance and care. They make it possible to prevent heavier care through earlier light intervention. Secondly, the compulsory ggz Act allowed temporary compulsory care to be provided prior to the crisis measure. There was therefore no need to wait until a measure was issued. This is the 12-hour measure. I have written to the Chamber that I would also like to look at a time-out, in which someone can be admitted for observation for three days at the request of a psychiatrist. That is an example of a time-out, as you could enter it. Those three days give time to get in touch with the family, reach out to the other stakeholders and consult with them. That gives a better picture to the psychiatrist, who now has to decide on the basis of a snapshot. By the way, of course, this is a big intervention, because you are actually recording someone for three days for observation, without an explicit decision being made. Psychiatrists have told me it's a snapshot when they see someone. Someone can, for example, for half an hour, show himself completely as if there is nothing going on. You also saw that with Bart of U. It was then completely confused again on the street. Psychiatrists say they have to judge a person in a very short time frame and have no time to be in touch with family. Sometimes the family cannot be reached. Many of these people are admitted on Friday or Saturday nights or taken off the street, when many people cannot be reached. At all events, everything is still on the weekends. Despite the fact that this really is an infringement, I want to look at this with a positive eye and assess it. I think there's a need for this. It's a big step, but I think this could be a valuable step. I will not include it in the letter of amendment anymore, because I believe that we should proceed with the law as soon as possible. This requires study. I study it, and if I like it, I'll prepare for a law change. I will not let it delay the letter of amendment. The third improvement concerns the involvement of signals from the family and from the environment. Legally it is arranged that the judge is informed from several angles, including by the family and the social environment. The judge will refer the case back if he finds the case too thin. The family gets a better position under the law. The family gets a confidant who represents the family's interests. The fourth improvement is in the cooperation between chain partners, which has clearly failed. The legislative proposal provides for mandatory consultation in the region in which the chain partners have to cooperate with each other. Finally, the implementation of the legislative proposals leads to better coordination between care and punishment. With Bart van U., the court dropped the requirement for compulsory treatment because Bart van U. refused to be treated. He was only punished at the time. Under the new legislation, the criminal court can impose care, even if the defendant refuses to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u235	These are all very good improvements. I have two questions in connection with my first term. Bart's family of yours is getting a better position. Does this also apply to care avoiders? How well do you define family? Should it be a first-degree relative, or could it be someone very closely involved? The second example I mentioned concerns the community care provider. Is the provision of community care part of the improved information exchange in the chain? Is there a good look at who comes professionally over the floor and is that person well informed or falls outside?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u236	Can I hear the last point again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u237	One of the points of improvement was better information in the chain. The example I quoted, I read that it was for a woman whose mother was murdered. That mother was a home-care worker. Are these types of professionals included in the information exchange in the chain?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u238	Yes, there is a real need for improvement. The bill requires it, but we're not gonna wait for that. In the plan of action confused persons we are already working on this. There is an incredibly bureaucratic point of improvement: how do we work with each other? It is about family in a broad sense, including the social environment. It may also be the neighbors, for lack of family, or others. It has to be seen in broad terms. I'm moving on to the Interim Act. The Committee calls for direct action, inter alia by drawing up an interim law allowing temporary compulsory care to be provided prior to a detention. The Cabinet strongly supports this urgency. However, it will also be a waste of time. It is such a fundamental change that must be implemented, that it must go through the Council of State. It has to be through a consultation. If you push this law steadily, you're stuck with deadlines, that's obvious. This law will then have to go to the Council of State after the consultation. The changes resulting from the Hoekstra Committee have been delayed for two months. Then we can discuss the law here with each other in early 2016 and then also in the Upper House. Our estimate is that we will be faster than if we make a separate emergency bill. Then we immediately have the good law that does much more of what is needed than just the limited that we could do with an emergency law. I am also afraid that otherwise the ordinary law will be delayed and we will have to wait for it. It takes more than the possibility to provide temporary compulsory care in exceptional cases prior to detention. Just as important are good information exchange and chain cooperation. That is why we will be firmly committed to the pace of this law. The BOPZ Act has been completed for 20 years, from 1971 to 1992. The law mandatory ggz was filed in the Dutch parliament in 2010. So with this law, too, we've been on the road for five years. That's not crazy. It's a complex law with big dilemmas. The law is about taking away the freedom of someone who has in principle done nothing wrong. At the same time, the law deals with seriously ill people who sometimes simply need help and whose right to self-determination stands in the way. That is the dilemma we face in this Chamber. The routes are such that the letter of amendment runs through a consultation with deadlines and through the Council of State. I just said all of that. I commit to rapid progress. I will therefore propose delaying changes from now on with a legislative amendment and not with a letter of amendment, so that we can bring this new law into force as soon as possible. The battle we have to make is difficult. The big problem of confused people is very complex. And so we all have to get to work. I will report to the Chamber on this regularly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u239	Do I understand the Minister correctly? Does the year 2018 no longer apply? Can the new law enter into force in 2016?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u240	Sure. This, of course, depends on the parliamentary debate. We focus everything on it... May I say "emergency advice"? Is that classified?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u241	Not anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u242	We are trying to do this through an urgent opinion from the Council of State. If all goes well, it will be in the Chamber at the beginning of 2016. After that, we can deal with the law in the First Chamber. I may be naive, but if we all see the urgency of this, we could settle this with each other at the beginning or mid-2016. I think we should all work for that. Where are you gonna knock on the door? That depends on the situation. If someone is on a tram and the police signal that person, the police should not give him a fine and let him walk on, but also signal this in the triage consultation. That must also be linked back to the other partners. If the social district team encounters someone at home, that is the body that has an obligation to link this back to the chain partners. If the general practitioner sees someone who needs mental health care, he must refer the person to a psychiatric institution or to the generalist ggz. If he thinks there's a danger, that person has to go to the Homeland Security. There's always a crisis ggz. There are problems if it's not acute and we're going to work on that. I've already brought a lot of questions. I'll check my papers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u243	I don't see anyone getting up anymore, so maybe... Oh, now Mr. Van Nispen is getting up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u244	That's entrapment!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u245	Yeah, this is entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u246	I still have one question. I am very surprised at the role of the health insurance provider. In October 2013, Bart van U. is not in prison, where he should be, but is staying in a psychiatric hospital in Belgium. In the report, I only encountered that moment when there is a chance that someone will be treated. But what's it gonna get stuck on? To the health insurance company. Someone reports, because he wants to be transferred to a psychiatric ward in the Netherlands, but according to the administration of the health insurance company he is detained. He can't be re-insured until he proves he's not anymore. How does this minister assess such a practice of the health insurance provider?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u247	That's gotta be different. When the form finally came, the bird of course had flown. We have already paid explicit attention to this in our response to the Chamber and we have already made agreements with insurers and municipalities about it. So things are really going to be different. This case is very special. More often than not, we find that someone is not insured and therefore cannot enter a care course. An insurer says in such a case: he is not insured with me, so I do not pay for the care he receives. Moreover, the person in question often does not want to be insured because of all kinds of other problems and debts. Being insured is not good in his perception. We have all found solutions to such circumstances. If there is no letterbox address anywhere or otherwise, the person's address is simply the city's address. Of course, this shouldn't happen. Mistakes like this have major consequences. Its approach therefore deserves priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u248	It is good to hear that the Minister is as surprised about this as I am. If I understand correctly, this doesn't happen this way anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u249	No, insurers and municipalities are also of this opinion. So we're gonna do this differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u250	This brought an end to the reply given by the government in the first term. I assume there's a need for a second term. I propose that we suspend for five minutes before continuing to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u251	Mr. Chairman. Things aren't going well with the care for confused people. We are going to do something about this, I conclude from this debate. With the ministers, I feel the urgency to deal with it. I have also heard good intentions, particularly from the Minister for Health. They are quite in line with what my party advocates: raising problems, preventing escalation, treatment etc. I'm not gonna repeat it all. I have discovered a gap: the Minister of Health has a director in mind. She directs the municipalities, but the Hoekstra Committee states literally in her report that the Public Prosecutor must have an essential role. This is a different role from the one described by the Minister of Health. He is bringing forward progress, but that is not an essential role. Because I have the idea that just isn't well thought out who should be the final responsible person, I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Hoekstra Commission recommended that the Public Prosecutor's Office be given an essential role in addressing the problem of "confused persons";]] [[Whereas for the performance of this role, among others, alongside the Public Prosecutor's Office, the mayor and the director-healer are mentioned;]] [[considers that any of these options may have advantages or disadvantages;]] [[considers that there is still a lack of clarity as to where the said role can best be laid down;]] [[invites the Government, in consultation with the partners concerned, including the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Ggz, the Dutch Society of Mayors and the Association of Dutch Municipalities, to come forward with a balanced proposal on whom to deposit the said direction and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Recourt and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279, 29628-249]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u252	I conclude by stressing once again that we are talking here about rules and money, but that in practice people have to do it, whether they are from the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police or the family. They do the incredibly difficult work of helping and dealing with people who are confused. I would like to wish them a great deal of strength and thank them for doing so every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u253	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for answering the questions. Unfortunately, the additional cuts in the state's attorney's office are continuing. Among other things, we're getting a bill for the amendment of the D.N.A. Act to convicts. I said in the first term that legislation takes time. We already have a law: the Law DNA investigation in convicts. It simply needs to be respected, not in just 20% to 30% of the cases. Less radically and immediately enforceable, DNA removal in convicts is at trial, or after the hearing, that the verdict is pronounced. This calls for an obligation to appear at the hearing. And yes, it costs police capacity, because as a rule, suspects are picked up to attend the hearing. But it saves the cost of tracking down convicted persons who, of course, do not report to the prison gate themselves. Nor is it unimportant: it saves the Minister the embarrassment that many thousands of convicts continue to walk free. I have heard that the Minister raised the Council's objections to the case law against an appearance, because not every victim needs the defendant's presence at the meeting. But that's not why I asked. I talked about the judgment at the hearing. That is a different part-session from that of the substantive part-session. As a rule, this takes place many days later because there is no immediate ruling. This only happens with the police judge and usually not with this type of serious crime. It brings me to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in cases where DNA removal is prescribed by law in the case of convicted persons, DNA material is only effectively reduced in 20% to 30% of cases, that this is a serious obstacle to the detection of (other) offences and that this may even cost human lives;]] [[Considering that it is very important to allow DNA collection for insured suspects, since it is still a suspect (only);]] [[Whereas the Board of Commissioners has indicated as an option to allow DNA collection at the time when the suspects are actually still at the disposal of the judiciary and in the court where they are present at that time;]] [[Whereas the fear that this will result in an increase in the number of default sentences can be overcome by the introduction of an obligation to appear at the hearing at which the judgment is delivered;]] [[Considers that this method is preferable, because DNA removal takes place with a convicted person;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that DNA removal is possible in court following a conviction for a crime for which the Law on DNA investigation in convicted persons provides that DNA removal is mandatory and to include an appearance at the hearing in the Code of Criminal Procedure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279, 29628-250]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u254	Mrs Helder knows that she has referred to it earlier, and that I have asked written questions about the appearance of suspects at the time when the conviction is or is not taking place. But I have also listened very closely to what the Minister says about the involvement and interests of the victim. I don't think that's worthless. That is exactly why I asked these written questions at the time...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u255	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u256	How does Mrs Helder take the interests of the victims into account when calling for an appearance of suspects at the time of the judge's judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u257	I've said that many times and I'm not going to repeat myself. I would rather not listen to the Minister but to the victim organisations, who say something quite different on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u258	Mr. Chairman. This was a debate on a difficult subject. A lot of commitments have been made. Of course, we are going to hold the ministers to that. An important point was the connection between punishment and care. Although we have been talking about it for a long time, it has still not been properly arranged. The Hoekstra Committee has once again made that very clear. The SP initially proposed to set up a committee on health and safety. That may fall within the existing structures of the inspections. It is about the connection between punishment and care, partly from the idea that people with cases where similar mistakes have been made are also entitled to some sort of Hoekstra committee. The Minister says that we do not really need such a committee, because matters have been better dealt with since the report was published last week. I wish I were. Ministers are very optimistic on certain points. I would urge the ministers not to say no to the proposed committee immediately, but to think constructively about this. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Hoekstra Commission concluded that the link between the criminal justice chain and the healthcare chain was inadequate;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to clarify whether there are more cases in which this deficiency has led to errors and to learn from these errors;]] [[calls on the government, an independent Health and Safety Commission, to investigate cases where mistakes may have been made by police, OM and ggz and where people who are deprived of help can report them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279, 29628-251]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u259	The improvement measures are urgent. The D.A., the police and the ggz need to get to work to make sure that these mistakes aren't made anymore. We must then enable these organisations to do this properly. The improvement measures are leading, not the budget. In the end, we heard the Minister say that very clearly. That is why I am not tabling a motion on this point. On another point, I'll file a motion. Of course, it's not just a matter of money, it's also human work. These are people who need help, not files that are being pushed through. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Hoekstra Committee's investigation has shown that cooperation within the criminal justice chain is still inadequate and that there is insufficient final responsibility;]] [[Considers that it is necessary to ensure that human beings, the demand for help and the threat posed by them are at the heart of the process and that obstructive procedures and bureaucracy stand in the way as little as possible;]] [[calls on the government to identify, in the short term, where the bottlenecks are and to come up with proposals to give professionals the room to do what is necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279, 29628-252]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u260	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for their reply. We can conclude that there is a strong task for the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and not least the two directors. These organisations should be able to carry out this important task. It's a big deal, if you look at the recommendations of the Hoekstra Committee. The Minister said that he raised the priorities in the Article 19 consultation with the regional mayors. The mayors want to cooperate, but if certain matters are given a high priority, then the question is what priorities will go off. Or did I understand correctly that the Minister says that if he also wants to maintain his national priorities, he will consider whether there might be a budget for the police? I would like to receive a confirmation from the Minister. We still have 12,000 convicts to serve their sentence. The Minister has made himself responsible for this, with the agreement of the Chamber. I'd like to hear from him how he's gonna do this. Next, a comment on DNA. D66 believes that the existing law should simply be properly implemented. As a reason for coming up with another law or an amendment to the current law, the Minister argues the following argument. If we go to court for DNA, this might lead to people not being present at their trial. The Minister says that 85% of the people are present at the moment. I think that is a high percentage, given that they know that cheek mucus can be removed. I understand that it is an assumption from the Minister and that this percentage does not provide any justification for his argument. We will follow Prince's Day with extra interest. I think it is important for the Minister to advocate to his colleague in the Finance Department that both organisations, police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, should be able to carry out these major tasks only if there is more financial scope. I do not know if Mr Oskam is going to ask the next question, otherwise I will do so on his behalf. Can we get the report from De Galan Groep?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u261	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors. There's a lot of work to be done after this serious case. I have two more points I would like to make to the Minister of Security and Justice. The Hoekstra Committee considered the way in which the Public Prosecutor's Office was set up, in particular the College of Attorneys General. The committee wants that last college to be more differentiated. The Minister has an important role to play in this. We know that the College of Attorney General has just been renewed. What's wrong with the composition? Shouldn't we have changed that before? The Minister said he was going to talk to the Justice Council next Monday about the possibility of DNA collection in a courthouse. What are his expectations of that conversation? I can almost predict that the President-in-Office of the Council is going to say before the courts that a courthouse is there to judge and not to use coercive means of justice. The question is whether this does not jeopardise the independence of justice and leads to a reduction in the number of people who have to appear before the courts. Well, where do you want it to be? I'd say there's room for inmates in a safe house. If people get out of court, it could possibly be in a police station. What does the Minister expect from the discussion with the Council of Justice? In any case, some arrangements must be made for the interim period, because legislation takes quite a long time. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Hoekstra Commission has made recommendations to prevent mistakes made by the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the authorities concerned, as in the Van U. case;]] [[calls on the Government to implement the recommendations contained in the Hoekstra report, including sending legislation to the Chamber as soon as possible to achieve DNA collection in the event of insurance and to take a temporary measure, pending this legislative proposal, in order to be able to collect DNA earlier,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Oskam and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279, 29628-253]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u262	Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate is appalling. Let me say first of all that I am pleased with the answers and commitments made by both heads of government in my direction and in the direction of other colleagues. A lot of very sensible questions have been raised. I note that it is the expensive duty of the Cabinet and the Chamber to ensure that these valuable recommendations of the Hoekstra Committee are actually respected, worked out and followed up. I will follow that with great attention and particular focus. I would like to thank both ministers in advance for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u263	Madam President. I would like to thank the rulers for their reply, and I would also like to say that I am grateful for the broad consensus expressed in the cabinet and in the Chamber to do everything possible to prevent any repetition of the mistakes we have talked about today. The letter describes a number of actions. We will be very happy to hold the cabinet to that. I would like to thank you for the commitments that have been made on a number of points. The Chamber will be informed of the timetable for the various actions. A good motion was tabled by Mr Recourt and Mr Segers on the role of director. The Minister was open to that. He has said that it is a point that we should take a closer look at. I am glad that we are not being forced into a choice now, but that a careful consultation process is being carried out. I'm filing a motion on the exchange of information. In practice, problems are sometimes experienced that are not legally necessary. I want to give that a push. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the report of the Hoekstra Commission indicates that there is insufficient exchange of information between the ggz and other interested parties, including as a result of too close interpretation of professional secrecy;]] [[considers that there is insufficient clarity as to the possibilities for exchanging information without breach of medical professional secrecy;]] [[calls on the Government, as a matter of urgency, to identify unnecessary obstacles to the proper exchange of information in the interests of the patient concerned and the safety of society, and to take measures to remove those obstacles where possible, and to report to the Court within three months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Berndsen-Jansen, Mr Recourt, Mr Segers and Mr Oskam.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279, 29628-254]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u264	Mr. Chairman. This debate remains without consequences; we have now been able to understand that. I will follow with great attention how the minister and his ministry deal with the top of his ministry and with the top of the state's attorney's office. I will follow that with great interest and attention. I've prepared two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that half of all police stations will be closed in the coming years;]] [[Whereas police stations have a central function in neighbourhoods, neighbourhoods and municipalities, as well as seriously confused persons often report here;]] [[calls on the Government to review the plan to close half of all police stations as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279, 29628-255]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u265	The next motion is about police capacity. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that more than 12,500 convicts do not comply with the call for DNA material;]] [[having noted that the Cabinet has instructed the Public Prosecutor to take cell material from these convicted persons and that the police will set up a special action team for this purpose;]] [[Considering that this intensification will increase the use of police capacity, while the police are already facing capacity problems due to the many new priorities;]] [[calls on the Government to indicate specifically where this police capacity should come from and what impact this has on other priorities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279, 29628-256]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u266	Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate is an enormous tragedy. After this debate, the family is left with great grief. All we can do is do what we can. These leaders have shown that they want to do what they can. I thank them for that. I would also like to thank them for their response, for their involvement in this and for their commitment to work on the recommendations of the Hoekstra Committee's very valuable report. That must be done carefully. In the interruptions and in our contributions, we have indicated what further questions remain. We will continue to discuss several issues, but I would like to highlight that there are still doubts about the proposed direction around the time of DNA release, whichever time we choose. I would like to give the Minister of Security and Justice to speak with the College of Protection of Personal Data before we initiate the entire legislative process. In any case, a privacy impact assessment is already being carried out. In any case, we must be advised on this point, because these are fundamental considerations. It is right that doubts have been expressed as to whether the Public Prosecutor's Office has sufficient resources and is able to do what needs to be done. The public prosecutor himself has also spoken clearly about this. The Minister has promised to talk about this and said that we will hear more about it on Princess Day. We are therefore eagerly looking forward to the feedback of those calls. If more resources are needed, they should be made available either within the budget or inclined towards the Minister of Finance outside the budget. We are following that closely. I have tabled a motion on the direction of the Public Prosecutor's Office, together with Mr Recourt, which speaks for itself. It is good to list all the pros and cons very carefully there. The Minister said he wanted to speak and I thank him for that, but I think this motion will help us. Finally, I have a question for the VWS Minister concerning the connection of the various links, the exchange of information. Sometimes the neighborhood team and the Security House are in different regions. How do we ensure that these overlapping or adjacent regions are properly linked? What are the means to bring the inequality together anyway? To literally get the people to the table, I'm filing a motion on the Own Force Conferences. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the VUmc is currently under investigation into the use of Eigen Kracht-conferences in compulsory mental health care;]] [[noting that the first interim report shows that many respondents experience more grip and control over their living situation after an Own Force Conference;]] [[Whereas the Own Force Conference on mandatory mental health care can contribute to an adequate approach to confused persons and family involvement;]] [[believes that it is very important to pursue family involvement in the provision of assistance in the mandatory mental health care;]] [[calls on the Government to include the research results on the deployment of Eigen Kracht-conferences in the letter of amendment of the Law on compulsory mental health care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279, 29628-257]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u267	Mr. Chairman. First of all, let me say that the reason for this debate is extremely sad, horrible and painful, as has already been said by a number of Members. At the same time, however, we have also had a respectful and dignified debate. We have tried together in a very substantive and sensible way to ensure, from the report before us and the situation we found, that every effort is made to solve effectively and swiftly the problems we have identified in the future. I shall look into the questions and comments of the individual Members, in so far as they do not relate to the motions. I thank Mr Recourt for his analysis: it did not go well and we are going to do something about it. That is exactly what Mr Schippers and I have in common. Mrs Berndsen asked about the task of the police budget. Can the Minister indicate that there will be money? How else is he gonna handle the convicts? In 2015 the agreement was made with the regional mayors that within the current prioritisation room is made for catching up with the 1,765 people of whom we think we know where they are. I'm talking about the people whose DNA still needs to be taken. That action must be completed by the end of the year. Then we have the 12,000 of whom we believe we don't know where they are. That's where we're gonna do some things. We're gonna check to see if they've all been spotted. If they come forward somewhere, at Schiphol or when they're arrested, they'll be arrested, too. If necessary, we'll look them up. If there is room for that, I will take that into account in the discussion with the police about the 2016 budget. Mrs Berndsen also asked about Galan's report 2. Can that be sent to the Chamber? I have already promised this, at the request of Mr Oskam, in general consultation on organised crime. I have also indicated that I must have permission from the prosecution, because unlike the first report, this is a report requested by the prosecution itself. So the D.A.'s gonna talk about it. I will make the request, as I have already promised. I assume I'll get the report, I say in all honesty. I will then send it to the Chamber with a policy response. This is exactly what I promised during the general consultation on organised crime. Mr Oskam asked what I think of the composition of the College of Attorneys General. I can inform the Chamber that this has been considered for a long time and that the legislative proposal will be consulted tomorrow. This makes it possible to appoint a pg in the College of Attorneys General who is neither a lawyer nor a member of the Public Prosecutor's Office. This will provide for the gap that we now experience, that there is too little visibility within the Public Prosecutor on the pure management and management of the organisation. That has been shared with your Chamber a long time ago, and that is where the remark comes from. I am very pleased that this point is also supported by the Hoekstra Committee. Mr Oskam asked what the expectations of the discussion with the Council of Justice were. I have already said something about this in the debate, namely that I can imagine that the Council will point to disadvantages in the case-law. Furthermore, I do not think it would be wise to speculate here about what the conversation entails. I have promised to inform the Chamber. Mr Segers pointed out that he had doubts about the proposed route of DNA release. I've heard that clearly. There are more members of the Chamber who have spoken about this. We will involve this very carefully in the shaping of our minds. I'd be happy to ask the College for protection of personal data or advise it earlier. Experience learns, as far as I can see, I say that with 103 days of experience in this role, which sounds like a lot, but actually very little is... that I will certainly discuss it with them. I shall now turn to the motions tabled. Mr Recourt and Mr Segers have tabled a motion on item No. 249 calling for a balanced proposal on where to lay down the role of director. I would just like to say to Mr Recourt that it became clear to me during the exchange of views that he had a different view of the figurehead than was intended. We talk on two levels about the directional role. There is a directing role for those in the Security Houses who have the legal task of ensuring that the laws are implemented, as well as the mandatory ggz. For the time being, there's the idea that that's gonna be the district attorney. We're gonna have the discussion about that. At the same time, I understood Mr Schippers in such a way that she wants to have one person confused in the plan of action and not in a legal role, but as a figurehead for those chains. I think that is what Mr Schippers meant by that. So there is no ambiguity between who should be given what role. In principle, we both choose the district attorney. However, we shall begin the debate. We can then consider this motion to support policy. We are happy to discuss this with you, as I have also promised to see whether everyone agrees that the most sensible proposal is indeed made in the Hoekstra Committee's report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u268	Thank you for this, Minister. However, I do not agree with you. Where Minister Schippers talks about the officer who has to monitor the deadlines, Hoekstra talks about the essential role and states that one person should be responsible, should be the point of contact, etc. There seems to be real light between the two points of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u269	I do not think that is the case, but Mr Schippers might be able to make that even clearer. Where Mr Schippers was talking about figurehead, she means someone who, from her domain at least, I understand I take responsibility for the process of the plan of approach confused persons. So that is not a legal task, but a task similar to that of other figureheads we have. Let me give you an example: Mayor Jorritsma of Almere was until recently a figurehead of the Task Force House Break-ins. That's not a legal job. It's someone who takes it on to get parties together. That's what I think it's meant to be. I would like to make one more comment on Mr Recourt's and Mr Segers' motion, namely that it should never lead to delays. We really need this law urgently, so we will take it forward. That is why the motion supports policy, and so we leave it to the Chamber to decide. In her motion, Mrs Helder writes in part No. 250 which is actually collected in only 20% to 30% of cases. Fortunately, as I said earlier, this happens in 85% of cases. This indicates that the facts on which this motion is based do not seem to be entirely correct. Next, Mrs Helder asks for DNA to be collected in another way, namely by means of an appearance obligation. I'm really worried about whether that's gonna work. That is why I intend to hold the debate on this when the legislative proposal is discussed in the Chamber. That makes this motion too early. I will therefore have to discourage her because, precisely at a point on which the Chamber wants to debate with the government, it removes the possibility for that debate. In the motion in part No. Mr Van Nispen called for an independent Committee on Health and Safety to be set up. Both Mr Schippers and I have already indicated that we are not in favour of this. This is far too bureaucratic and it does not solve the problem. We agree with Mr Van Nispen that it is nice to want to do something. That's what's decided in the cabinet response. This isn't the route we need to take. For this reason, despite the sympathetic starting point, the motion is not recommended. In Mr Van Nispen's motion to item No. 252 the government is invited to identify, in the short term, where the bottlenecks are and to come up with proposals. This motion actually states that the Hoekstra Committee did not do its job properly. The bottlenecks identified by the Hoekstra Committee are precisely the bottlenecks. The motion then states that the improvement programme of the Public Prosecutor's Office is superfluous or the motion refers to the improvement programme of the Public Prosecutor's Office. That is precisely what it is for to tackle and solve in a broad sense the problem of the Public Prosecutor's Office. That would mean that this motion might mean that the program should include the improvement performance criminal justice chain or the bill for the USB. I don't understand the motion. Can Mr Van Nispen explain this briefly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u270	The Minister understood very well that I didn't mean her like that. The Minister will understand that, of course. I do not mean that the Hoekstra Committee is not doing its job properly or that the Public Prosecutor's improvement programme is not good. This motion refers to the call that I have made in detail and to the analysis that the SP has been using for a long time, which is often not about people in the public sector, but about dossiers and protocols. I am concerned with the final responsibility: people help people. That is the subject of this motion. The Minister may consider this motion as an incentive to identify cases where people in the care, police or prosecutor's office run into cases where they are unable to help and do what is necessary. Indeed, there may be more than what the Hoekstra Committee has come up against in the context of this research assignment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u271	As far as the D.A.'s office is concerned, I have already said so. That is also why the Public Prosecutor's Office has set up a broader improvement programme, wider than what the Hoekstra Committee recommended. That's why I can't do anything with this motion. I'm gonna have to dissuade her. Mr Oskam has the motion in part No. 253 on the DNA collection at insurance. He will understand that I must discourage that motion because I have promised that we will have a wide-ranging debate with the Chamber. This would also be contrary to the motion in part No. 249 by Mr Recourt and Mr Segers, on which I have just said that I leave the judgment to the Chamber. So I advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. Mr Bontes' 255 is asked not to close half of the police stations. There is no relationship between the police stations and the handling of confused persons. It is clear that the debate on this issue has already taken place during the general consultation on the police. In doing so, I indicated the intention of the government to close police stations and to justify the provision of services. There have been clear agreements on this. We have already had this debate with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u272	So you're dissuading the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u273	I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u274	I challenge the Minister's statement that there is no relationship between confused persons and police stations. There is. I've been with the police for 30 years, so I can talk about it. You go on such a hot night on duty on a desk and you see some confused people, who are sometimes violent, come to the station and ask to be locked up or cause another riot. Really, that happens day and night.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u275	I don't dispute that at all. I say that an effective approach to confused people does not depend on the number of police stations, but on acting correctly when you come into contact with a confused person. In this case, we have come up against it. That is exactly what I am saying. This does not mean that the number of police stations and the way in which services are provided are essential for an effective approach to confused persons. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u276	If those confused people can't report to a police station, they're gonna be wandering the streets and the risk of incidents is even greater. In that sense, there is a relationship and I advise the Minister not to close all those offices.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u277	As I said, there are a lot of police stations left. The service is provided in a different way. For the rest, I would like to point out that there is also a financial component to it and that this motion is not covered. Then I come to the Bontes motion on part No. 256, which says that the government should specify where the police capacity should come from and what impact this has on other priorities. This motion is not aimed at the government but at the local triangle, because that is where the question of priorities lies. As regards capacity, I have already said that I will take it with me in 2016 when it comes to dealing with the budget. That makes the motion unnecessary. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u278	The Minister pretends that there are only local priorities, but there are also national priorities. In this respect, Mr Bontes' motion does justify an opinion of the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u279	There are nationwide priorities. Just for the record, how does the system work? The 2015-2018 Safety Agenda builds on what can be solved in local priorities and in a number of national priorities that cannot be resolved locally, such as tackling child pornography and combating jihadism. No, that's a bad example, because jihadism is explicitly a local point. Child pornography and cybercrime; these are the two points. There are other examples of this, but these are two explicitly national priorities. In 2015 we will use the basic teams that are set up to take charge of the execution task. I agree with the mayors of the region. They will support that. About 2016 I will take it with me in the budget. That's what I just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u280	A brief follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u281	The truth is, I know, because I've been involved with the police, too. It is also a question of removing capacity from the minister for priorities. I would like to mention one, and I do not do so on purpose: the fight against soft drugs in the southern provinces. That's where capacity is picked from. If the Minister does not mention this as a national priority, then I cannot imagine that these regional mayors can continue to insist that this can continue and that the task of execution can be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u282	I have just had that discussion with the mayors of the region. By the way, Mrs Berndsen knows as well as I do that in the South of the Netherlands 125 extra men have been deployed for this task, including people from the national unit. They're not just from the base teams. So I'm sticking to the judgment that this motion should be dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u283	I was just writing, so I would like to ask a question about the previous motion, the Bontes motion in part No. 256. I hear the Minister say: there is no direct relationship between confused persons and police stations. After that, he did a little nuanced in his reply. But Bart van U. just called in to a police station twice, didn't he? And weren't it two district agents who finally did their stinking best, so the disaster was still somewhat contained?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u284	Sure. I have also said that the district agents have made every effort to do the right thing. That's what's in the pieces. No one's doing anything about that. Fortunately, district agents have been incorporated into the law, as Mrs Helder knows. That's what legal agreements have been made. They'll be filled in as well. That takes longer than we had hoped, as I happened to explain yesterday, in Question Time. But there is no correlation, in the sense that the amount of police stations we now have stand in the way of a successful policy towards confused persons. I explained that to Mr Bontes. So I'm sticking to my judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u285	Thank you for your answers. Then I will give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u286	Mr. Chairman. In any event, the extremely tragic occasion for this debate has led to a great deal of activity in this debate. We agree that there are a lot of things that we have talked about today that are not going well and that we need to do better. That's what we'll put our shoulders on. We'll put the room back on that, too. I have two motions. The first, in part No. 254, is by Mr Van der Staaij c.s. It calls on the government to identify obstacles to the proper exchange of information in the interests of the patient concerned and the safety of society and to take measures to remove those obstacles where possible. The motion states: a close interpretation of medical professional secrecy. I would like to say that this has not played a role in this case. I think it is important to note this, because we are talking about the report by the Hoekstra Committee. At the same time, we see that this narrow interpretation does play a role in other cases. It calls for obstacles to a proper exchange to be removed. I assume that the authors also understand that we are pointing out to the profession, in interactive initiatives, that the close interpretation of medical professional secrecy is not correct. I was just suggesting, for example, that we ask the Superintendent to put something on paper so that we can organise something on it and then get it started. Then I have understood the motion correctly. I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. Mr Segers asked me to outline how safety, triage and district teams relate to each other and how the job definition is. I understand that very well. Here's what I'm gonna say. I'll write a letter to the Chamber at the end of the summer and tell the Chamber who the figurehead is and how we're going to organize the journey. In a plan of action, I will give the Chamber more information on this. In any case, the letter of amendment pays great attention to information exchange, protocols and so on. It is therefore reflected in the letter of amendment. On the task delineation, I will return to that letter. The second motion, in part No. 257 by Mr Segers and Mr Van der Staaij. It invites the government to include the research results on the deployment of Eigen Kracht-conferences in the letter of amendment. I see that as support for policy. In the letter of amendment, we will legally anchor a plan of our own approach. In that we take this aspect with us. I shall therefore leave this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u287	Doesn't carrying out this motion lead to delay?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u288	No, because the information is already included in the letter of amendment. We can just take this with us at once. Otherwise, I would have judged it something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-43.u289	Tomorrow night we will vote on the motions that have been tabled.
