ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State. The first speaker is Mrs Vermeij. She signed up for ten minutes. This is merely a directive, which we would like to adhere to, but in principle the Chamber has unlimited speaking time in the case of legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u2	Mr. Chairman. I hope I need less time, but that depends a little bit. The Pension Act is amended to allow a so-called general pension fund, a pension fund that carries out one or more pension schemes and holds separate assets for that purpose per group of collections. When people ask me, I always compare it with an umbrella that includes pension funds that each have their own scheme. The introduction of the apf thus gives employers and employees an additional option for pension execution. This is particularly interesting in the case of small pension schemes, because it strikes a balance between, on the one hand, maintaining the identity and the solidarity of the own group of collectivity, the circle in which that pension fund is located, and, on the other hand, achieving economies of scale in implementation costs and governance. I think we all want this. The Labour Party considers that the establishment of the apf offers a useful and necessary alternative to pension practitioners. In this way, the identity and solidarity of pension schemes combined with lower implementation costs and good governance can be maintained. It can therefore make a certain contribution to the security of pension provision in some sectors. We therefore consider it important that the possibility of the apf be added as soon as possible to the wide range of options available to pension practitioners. The Labour Party is satisfied with the bill, although we still have a few questions to ask the Secretary of State. I'm gonna get started on that right now. First of all, governance is an important issue in dealing with this bill. There has been quite a lot of exchange in the input, in the details and in the note on the report. The note following the further report states that administrative efficiency may be put under pressure, as more and more contracting parties in the apf must or may be represented in a proportionate administrative capacity. Taking into account that governance was a multi-opf problem and that it did not actually succeed, the Labour Party asks the Secretary of State how it is going to ensure that the administrative efficiency of the apf is not put under pressure. We fear that this will happen. What are the possibilities of moving to another model if it appears that the limits of a particular model are in sight? Are some kind of agreement on the governance structure to be chosen at the beginning of the establishment of an apf? In the note on the report we get the answer that there is an opportunity to have a board represented. You have to imagine that under that umbrella there are six pension funds and that number seven, eight and nine are added next. Doesn't that top, the board that's above it, get top heavy? What's the guarantee for that? Is a voluntary option not too thin in this respect, or will it work itself out? How are we gonna handle this? Employers' representation in the stakeholder body in closed funds is also a problem. My colleagues have already asked questions about this. This should not be an obligation. A second issue that plays a role here is the working capital or starting capital, as you might call it, in the creation of an apf. How is it ensured that the transition to an apf is successful? What happens, for example, with the transfer? What happens to the property rights? Can the Secretary of State explain in advance what stage the investigation is at? Will it also explain the possible positions of occupational pension funds following the introduction of this bill? If we adopt this proposal to create a general pension fund unchanged, mergers for compulsory occupational pension funds are virtually impossible. The call for extreme care regarding the scope and introduction of Article 21a, however to be defended, also limits these parties very much. That is why I tabled an amendment together with Mr Lodders in order to achieve something quite different. It provides compulsory occupational pension funds with the possibility of merging, but in separate assets. For that, they may maintain a ringfence construction. Of course, we look forward to the reaction of the Secretary of State to this amendment. I would like to say that ring-fencing is not so special as regards European legislation. In the IORP Directive, ringfencing is the default. Can't ringfencen is a Dutch speciality, although it happens in some forms. The amendment therefore deals only with situations where occupational pension funds are combined. In our view, therefore, there is no distortion of the market, to begin with the argumentation and the lines of defence. It is important for the PvdA that stakeholders can no longer be affected by the buy-back of small pensions. We have discussed this in several debates. This legislative proposal extends that right of choice. In February, the Secretary of State also said that the income decision would be amended. At what time is that a fact? When can we meet this? When is the Chamber expected to be informed about this? We are very much in favour of solving the problems associated with the buy-back of small pensions. The downside is that by extending the right of choice, the funds are given the idea that they should give financial advice on the most attractive moment of redemption for the participant. That can't be the intention. How can we prevent this and thus respect the great wishes of this Chamber for a proper settlement? There is a lot of technology involved in the VAT exemption. Let me try to shape this briefly and well into two questions. It is strange that pension administrators are liable to VAT if they implement the DB schemes, but not if they implement the DC schemes. Is the distinction still so easy to make? Is it true that neighbouring countries do this quite differently? The aim of this legislative proposal is to improve the efficiency of the implementation of second pillar pensions. Smaller funds, but also large funds, could benefit from this. It offers an alternative to funds that no longer can or want to go on independently. Funds that do wish to continue independently can reduce costs. We look forward to this bill. Many are waiting for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u3	I give the floor to Mr Ulenbelt of the SP Group. He's also signed up for ten minutes. Mrs Vermeij spoke seven-and-a-half minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u4	Mr. Chairman. The general pension fund seems to be a good step in the direction. Is this now also a step towards a national pension fund, one of the options mentioned by the ESC in its opinions on the future of the pension system? Is the Secretary of State working on this option in the letter on the future of the system that she is still sending to the Chamber? A general pension fund is set up so that other pension funds can join, to achieve economies of scale and therefore cost benefits. That sounds nice. That sounds nice and logical, but that is why I find it extremely strange that occupational pension funds.... often large funds, because they are the top ten............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Why hasn't the Secretary of State made the decision whether or not they're allowed to? Would it not be an idea to hold on to the legal process until the Secretary of State has made a decision? Then we can decide it right after the summer. This law would not apply on 1 January but on 1 July 2016. I told you, it makes sense: when you're small and you join someone who's big, there are advantages. It can also happen very easily that small joins small. Mr Klein responds to this. He's not joining, but he's splitting up, we know that, but we're not talking about that right now. If there's two small funds going into an apf, there's no scaling advantage. I am silent on this because it is also possible to set up an empty general pension fund. Actually, I was stunned about that. Imagine joining as a small pension fund. Then where are the economies of scale? There aren't any. I would suggest to the Secretary of State that the Dutch Bank does not authorise empty funds. Those are dark forces on a maybe for their unknown market. I'm curious to hear the Secretary of State's response. The Secretary of State has told us that there are now about ten initiators who want to set up a general pension fund. I'd like names and numbers of those initiators. The Secretary of State will say that she cannot give it because it would disrupt the market, but at least I would like to know where they come from. Are these initiatives from the world of insurers, pension funds or pension administrators? We have made a few changes to the organisation and governance of the pension system. A problem that needs to be solved, we wanted to solve earlier with a multi-enterprise fund. That failed. There's only two of them. That didn't answer the question. We have also set up pension institutions. Well, you could say that's a failure, too. I am afraid that the way in which it is now organised with these general pension funds could also lead to a failure. If you want economies of scale, does it make perfect sense for the little ones to join the big ones and for them to join the biggest ones, such as the ABP and the other well-known pension funds? Why doesn't the Secretary of State do that? A partial solution is provided by the Lodders/Vermeij amendment on the possibility of mergers of compulsory funds, while maintaining collectivity rings; together under one umbrella, very romantic and charming. I think it's a surprising and creative amendment. I am very positive about this, because it can provide a way out of some 40 small occupational pension funds looking for bundling. I therefore support this amendment. It would be very logical if business funds could join these merged clubs. I don't really understand why the government doesn't think this is possible. It would cause market disruption, but you want consolidation, you want it bigger, you actually want to regulate that market, so why couldn't it? As a second argument, the Secretary of State mentions European competition rules. In my opinion, this Parliament has said unanimously that pensions are a national matter. That argument will therefore not work in this Parliament. A few weeks ago, the Chamber received a petition from the Money Interest Foundation. The authors drew attention to the dramatic consequences of the low interest rate when a pension benefit is to be purchased from the accumulated capital at the retirement age. It is sometimes tens of percent lower than was previously expected, and not for a moment, but for the rest of your life. Those people are angry. They find that unacceptable and the SP agrees with them. They call this a straight-jacket pension. Earlier we had from the world of insurers the usury policies. It's not all that cheerful out there. I would like to make a proposal that contributes to solving and releasing that straitjacket. My proposal is that it should be possible to transfer the capital raised for the purchase of pensions from an insurer to a pension fund where someone has already settled. You can go from an old employer to a new employer now, but you can never go back. When putting together the Pension Act, this has probably never been considered, but the unfortunate thing is that that step is currently prohibited by the Pension Act. In this way, we could help a lot of people who once built up a small or a little larger pension. They would not suffer, and certainly not their lives, from a much lower pension. I checked. It would be more beneficial for these people. I therefore ask the government to settle this by letter of amendment. In that case, it is very specific to amend Article 71 (1) (b). The Secretary of State can now say: make your own amendment. I could have done that, but this idea has only recently occurred to me, hence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u5	You always have to chew on a good idea. I am still chewing on Mr Ulenbelt's plan. Do I understand why he's saying this? This one-off purchase is problematic for many participants at the moment because of the low interest rates, because they are much less than they are; that is why we put that money into a pension scheme that they have already run. That does not apply to those who do not. Did I get that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u6	Yeah, you got that right. I understand that the Secretary of State is thinking of other solutions for that group, which also have many disadvantages, but we will see that. For these people, who already have a pension somewhere else with a fund, it could be an extremely elegant solution. Some of the people who came to offer us that petition, I spoke to them. They said, "That would be something for me." I don't know how big that group is. Hence my question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u7	It would be interesting to hear from the pension sector itself whether it can facilitate this proposal. I put that question to the Secretary of State through Mr Ulenbelt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u8	To be honest, I think it is, because the insurance companies will have to stop whining about straitjacket pensions and the pension funds will receive capital that they will be able to deal with and pay out according to the rules they have. I guess so. Finally, I would once again like to ask the Secretary of State why she does not choose to organise the consolidation of the Dutch pension system through the large sector pension funds, so that small pension funds join large and there is harmonisation. I hope the Secretary of State will do this; otherwise I would like to give her a warning, given the experience with the PPIs and the multi-opfs. If she does not do so, we will not solve the real problem with these ten providers. I am curious if there are any big ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u9	I give the floor to Mrs Lodders. She signed up for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u10	Mr. Chairman. The number of pension funds has fallen sharply in recent years: from 700 pension funds in 1995 to around 360 funds at present. This trend will continue to develop. The Secretary of State expects the number of funds to fall further this year, to 300 funds. Reducing costs and finding suitable directors increasingly difficult are the main reasons for merging or liquidating pension funds. The possibility of merging is currently limited because mergers are only obvious if the characteristics and populations of the pension scheme are very similar, so that there are no unilateral flows of solidarity from one fund to another. In addition, the employer loses a large part of control in the event of a merger. Further aggregation, which many funds want from a cost point of view, therefore seems difficult. The current Pension Act has a number of possibilities to accommodate the pension scheme somewhere. The present proposal adds a possibility: the general pension fund. The apf should allow further consolidation and thus cost benefits. This legislative proposal can bring together different pension schemes from different companies. The various schemes are brought into their own collection circle, so that a separate implementation can take place, the so-called ringfencing. The advantage of the apf is therefore that it is possible to retain its own identity while at the same time benefiting from economies of scale. For employers and employees, it means more choice. By pooling forces and by the economies of scale that this entails, an apf should be able to reduce management costs and administrative pressures. Another advantage of the apf compared with the combination of different pension funds is that the employer controls the scheme at an apf. For the VVD Group, this bill is another great step in the freedom of choice. Perhaps even more important is the introduction, at a time when pensions are already under pressure, of an opportunity to reduce costs, which should ultimately benefit the participant and the pensioner. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether the APF provides sufficient tools for further consolidation, or does the Secretary of State consider that, in addition to the introduction of the APF, there is a need for further success? The intended date of introduction of this bill is January 1, 2016. The pension field is looking forward to this bill. We know that the Dutch Bank has already indicated some 70 funds that they need to think about their future. Is this bill coming in time for these funds? We know from a number of funds that they are having a very difficult time. Can the Secretary of State give the guarantee that introduction will be possible as of 1 January 2016, taking into account, of course, that parties wishing to establish an apf also need some preparation time? How does the Secretary of State deal with those funds that want to go into an app and that didn't just finish the case before 31 December this year? What possibilities does the Secretary of State see for these funds, knowing that some funds are not really good for them either? Does the Secretary of State also monitor the authorisation of DNB? From the past, from the introduction of the PPI, we know that this has not gone flawlessly. Can the Secretary of State undertake that all parties wishing to set up an apf and all cases are actually granted a permit to get to work quickly? This is in the interests of the participants but also of pensioners. For the compulsory occupational pension funds, the apf does not provide a solution. The Cabinet indicates that it will launch an investigation to see whether the compulsory occupational pension funds can also be part of an apf in the long term. This is a good aim, but for the pension funds that are currently facing acute problems, the outcome of this study is far too late, as for the compulsory sector pension funds that want to achieve economies of scale by pooling forces in order to reduce costs and ultimately achieve higher returns for their members and pensioners. Last week I found out that the water is running out of funds. What is the State Secretary's response to these funds, their participants and pensioners? The VVD regrets that the study is not therefore ready for the examination of this proposal; a missed opportunity. This is a tax-enhancing pension. If we do not provide funds with every opportunity to keep costs down, we are doing the wrong thing. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State the timetable at which the investigation is being completed and where additional legislation is being prepared. I don't want to wait for this. Together with Mr Vermeij, I have tabled an amendment to allow the compulsory occupational pension funds to merge with other compulsory occupational pension funds, where the assets are managed separately. This amendment allows these funds to obtain the benefits of a merger in the short term, without affecting the organisation of the market and the solidarity of the funds, with benefits in terms of costs and benefits in manageability. The apf should also reduce the control pressure. Actal ran a test and made a number of recommendations. Can the Secretary of State indicate how she has dealt with these recommendations? Are they all anchored in the present bill? The manageability, having sufficiently qualified drivers, is one of the arguments why an apf can be a solution. This too is a positive development, because it is becoming difficult for more and more funds to find the right managers, especially for a fund whose number of participants is falling. I am pleased that the Secretary of State states that it is possible for joint boards to agree on the composition of the board. This improves the ability to manage. With regard to the governance of the funds, I would like to talk about the stakeholder bodies. An apf should set up a separate stakeholder body for each group of collections. This means that a fund with many collectivity circles must also set up many stakeholder bodies. I have tabled an amendment to enable the stakeholder bodies to be merged in the case of multiple collection circles. In doing so, agreement is needed from all parties. The amendment is intended for those funds where it is difficult to set up a stakeholder body or for those funds that decide to merge into a single stakeholder body. This could also benefit governance. As a follow-up, I have another question about employers' representation in the stakeholder body. The Secretary of State has indicated that if an employer no longer exists, there is no obligation for an employer's representation, but with a closed fund, the Secretary of State says it can be good to have an employer's representation. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether this is an obligation, even if there is clearly no financial relationship between the employer and the closed fund? If it is an obligation, I am considering submitting another sub-amendment on this point. The apf has no international operation. I have already drawn attention to this in the written round. For the sake of the progress of this legislative proposal, I do not wish to make any amendments on this point. However, the VVD considers it important that the Dutch pension sector should also be made attractive to international players and schemes. Is the Secretary of State prepared to identify what is needed to take steps towards a cross-border vehicle? I still have a few smaller points. The first is resistance. The legal text and the accompanying explanatory notes require an apf to have resistance. Can the Secretary of State indicate why she has opted for resistance? Does this create barriers to starting an apf? Has the Secretary of State considered that the resistance of parties with good liability insurance, possibly tested by the Netherlands Bank, should be at least comparable to that of a pension fund? If not, why not? The Secretary of State states that voluntary schemes should be placed in the same ring as the basic scheme. Why is the Secretary of State holding on to that? How does it ensure fiscal hygiene? How does the Secretary of State view the advantage that can be achieved if voluntary net schemes are placed in a larger collective, or if net schemes are bundled? I'm rounding up. The VVD considers this proposal to be an important instrument for the further consolidation of pension funds. The field looks forward to this instrument with great interest. It is a missed chance that the step for the compulsory occupational pension funds has not been made possible. The Lodders/Vermeij amendment must, at least for the short term, also give air to these funds. I call on the Secretary of State to urgently address the investigation of the sector pension funds and the international aspect. Politics is responsible for removing rules and barriers so that funds can perform optimally. We owe this to the participants and the pensioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u11	Before you started your final words, Mr Omtzigt stood up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u12	Mrs Lodders proposed two amendments to the bill. The first is to make a kind of multi-bpf possible in the Pension Act. That is what the amendment she has tabled together with Mrs Vermeij is trying to do. We do have signals that a number of funds would like this. Why does the VVD ask for research here and why does it place this in a law other than the one before it? Why doesn't she wait for the investigation and put this in the pension fund in general? Let me put it this way: I'm starting to get dizzy from the number of pension schemes that become possible. Another one will be added now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u13	I think I have sufficiently indicated in my speech that we find it extremely regrettable that the investigation is only now being started. This is not a solution for those compulsory occupational pension funds that are getting to the water. That is why we want to provide solutions for these funds in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u14	If the investigation shows otherwise in a few months, are we going to change the law again? How does Mrs Lodder see the legislative process before her? She says it all has to be in a new kind of multi-bpf. I would have liked to have seen that a little earlier, because it leads to a lot of complications for participation or getting in and out. All this is not so easy to arrange. I also immediately ask whether the government would like to go through the adoption of this amendment on all these points, so that we know whether it works or whether repair legislation should be introduced later. Is that all thoughtful? I also ask whether there is no possibility of waiting a few months and then looking at what is the best solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u15	I didn't ask for nothing how long the investigation is gonna take and when it's done. Again: the desire from the pension field is great. The water is a number of funds to the lips. I've heard amounts for execution costs that can go down considerably. I think we owe it to the participants and the pensioners to take this intermediate step. I have also drawn attention to this in the written input. Again, this is an intermediate step. Our wish is to anchor that in an apf as well. It takes extra time to do so, but this amendment does not change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u16	Mr Omtzigt, do you still need a final word?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u17	No, I'll get back to you on my own terms. I would like to ask the government what the adoption of this amendment would mean. Because it's quite a major change. I understand the problem, but you cannot say to pension funds: you are going to be in that new multi-bpf and in a few months you will hear from a study whether we are going to do something else. Then it is not a reduction in costs, but a cost increase, because then there must be twice a change in statutes and total transformation. That seems a little sub-optimal to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u18	The amendment allows the merger of two compulsory occupational pension funds. Secondly, we strongly hope that these funds will also be placed in an apf. It's gonna take some extra homework. We regret it; it is a missed opportunity. The call and the pressure from the field are enormous. You probably heard the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u19	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the General Pension Fund Act. In the legislative proposal, the government regulates the possibility of a general pension fund bringing together several pension funds. Several speakers have talked about it. We've read all the pieces. However, for each pension fund, the pension scheme remains within the scope of the pension scheme. The identity and capabilities remain intact by ringfencing. That looks good as far as we're concerned. It is intended that not only a pension fund can set up an apf, but also other parties, such as an insurer, a PPI or an asset manager. A permit from the Nederlandsche Bank is required to carry out the business of an apf. This must be granted before an apf can start. That also makes sense to us; we support this story. In the future, it could be an option for particularly smaller pension funds that have difficulties with the challenges they face in terms of the requirements for governance, risk management and implementation costs. As a result, in many cases, social partners have a reason to transfer their pension provision to another pension provider. However, there is often a need to maintain the connection with one's own pension and solidarity in one's own circle. An apf could meet this need. So far, so good. At first glance it is a good plan, although there is a lot of hurry behind it. Among others, Mr Ulenbelt has asked to deal with the bill later and perhaps lift it over the summer. That'd be great. Then we will have more time to study it and the Secretary of State will also have more time. Then we'll do better business. Of course, bigger doesn't always have to be cheaper. In theory, economies of scale exist when funds are placed in an apf, but multiple pension schemes can be implemented separately in different compartments. This ideally creates a larger pension fund, thus achieving economies of scale in investment and execution costs. The administrative burden is also reduced with the advent of an apf. We do wonder whether these will actually be the effects. How will DNB monitor this? The supporting surface is also a point. The pension sector responds positively to the government's plans. In its response to the open internet consultation, the Pension Federation indicated that the general pension fund could be a desirable alternative to the funds that intend to liquidate or are already in the process of doing so. In addition, according to the Pension Federation, the apf should be accessible to compulsory funds which also have non-compulsory occupational pension funds under their control. Is it appropriate now to introduce a law which is not now, but is likely to apply in the future to compulsory occupational pension funds? Maybe we can wait. Why hasn't a level playing field been created immediately, so that all the funds will be able to blend into an apf in the future? In addition to the ABP and PFZW, there are plenty of small funds, such as the compulsory occupational pension funds, which in future would like to be integrated into an apf. How's the government handling that? Why does the cabinet first introduce a change for occupational and occupational pension funds, rather than for the occupational pension funds? We understand, of course, the obligation attached to the occupational pension funds, but what exactly are the disadvantages of linking this obligation to an occupational pension fund? Here too, I would like to receive a clear answer from the Secretary of State. In this light, we also see the amendment tabled by Mrs Vermeij and Mrs Lodders. Mr Ulenbelt called it a creative amendment and I can support that story: it is creative. We would like to hear an appreciation from the Secretary of State for this amendment in the first term. I'll come to a conclusion. We are in itself in favour of this proposal, because it gives the funds the opportunity to make a consolidation impact. We do wonder how the compulsory occupational pension funds should be dealt with. We await the Secretary of State's answers to that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u20	I give the floor to Mr Klein. You want to know how many minutes you've signed up for? You signed up for nine minutes. Yeah, really, nine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u21	Mr. Chairman. Nine minutes so... The new general pension fund has received a warm welcome from all sides. There is support from many parties and so is the Free Party. It offers the best of both worlds. Indeed, it is more efficient and it also provides optimal protection for the members of the pension schemes. It is a step towards modernising our pension system. The apf can thus be a step towards further development in order to secure individual pension requirements collectively and in solidarity. Especially in view of the far-reaching reduction in the number of pension funds, the apf enables a new form of bundling in the implementation of different pension schemes. This will enable a wide range of economies of scale to be achieved, such as reducing administrative burdens, asset management and implementation costs. As a result, more money for asset building and thus also for pension benefits can be made available. That's in the interest of the participant. At least that's the idea. However, according to the report, the Secretary of State does not dare to burn her fingers at the level of the efficiency advantage. It is even a pity that, at the start, money is being skimmed by the licensing costs of €27,000 per pension fund. Can the Secretary of State say whether it is prepared to indicate in 2017 whether savings have actually been made with an apf from 2016 onwards? The main features of an apf are that it enables the financially separate implementation of multiple pension schemes and that the target group does not need to be limited to a particular sector. A general pension fund may carry out several pension schemes and hold separate assets for this purpose per circle of collection. But does this also mean that investment policy within the general pension fund can become different? Then how are these risks distributed? In this investment policy, for me, capital building, return and thus the basis for a good pension are, first and foremost, within the limits of corporate social responsibility. It's employers' money, if they've paid contributions, and employees' money. It seems illogical to move politically towards this investment policy. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that politics is not about the investment policy of the pension fund? The general pension fund has the advantage of finding a new balance between the maintenance of one's own identity and the solidarity of one's own pension scheme within the collection circle. As a result, participants may be able to switch between collectivity rings, more appropriate to the need. How does the Secretary of State see this perspective? At present, however, compulsory occupational pension funds are not allowed to participate in an occupational pension fund. That's gonna keep wringing. The argument of market distortion is strange to me, since the aim is precisely to reduce costs for the pensions of the participants. With the Vermeij/Lodders amendment, this could be done via a U-turn construction of a merger. That also wrings. Can the Secretary of State make it clear again why compulsory occupational pension funds cannot participate in this scheme while compulsory occupational pension funds can? Actually, that doesn't make any sense. An important part from a free perspective, in which free people are independent, is participation. Depending on the governance model, each of these collectivity circles may have a stakeholder body (bo) or accountability body (vo) in which employers, participants and pensioners are represented. It is also important to ensure transparency between the bos and vos. This now runs through the pension boards in line with the Pension Funds Code. It is not clear how the communication between the bo's and vo's of different collection circles takes place within the apf. It seems logical that there should be open communication between these bodies in order to maintain checks-and-balances with regard to the general pension fund administration. Can the Secretary of State clarify that? We received a petition from the Money Interest Foundation about the straitjacket pension. It is right that people should draw attention to this. Outside their debt, due to low interest rates, they see their pension evaporate through the insurer. Let us find a solution together. That is why I look forward with interest to the reaction of the Secretary of State to Mr Ulenbelt's proposal. Finally. We come from a time when pension security proved to be a false security. People thought their premium payment would be a deferred wage. That seemed nice, but if it were only on the basis of the premium, the pension would be very lean. It is precisely efficiency, resistance and fluctuations that determine the level of pensions. The cost component also has a negative impact by definition. It is therefore about the relationship and acceptance. A general pension fund is a step towards further improving our pension system, in a balance between the different generations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u22	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the introduction of the general pension fund. This so-called apf complements the many existing implementation models in pension schemes; Mr Omtzigt pointed out just when interrupting. One of the benefits is that these funds, including funds that are in liquidation or are considering, provide an additional opportunity for the implementation of their pension agreement. My first question to the Secretary of State is a fundamental one: what exactly is the added value of the apf compared to the joint execution by one pension executive, which is already possible? In this light, I also ask the Secretary of State how the introduction of the apf will help with the consolidation of the pension sector. Last year, the Dutch Bank asked 60 funds to think about their future, while I understood this bill as something that should support that necessary consolidation. I would ask the Secretary of State to reflect not only on the way in which it contributes to this, but also on the way in which it sees the future of the pension sector at all. There is support throughout the pension world for the introduction of an apf. This raises the question of how many applications or indications of applications for the establishment of such an apf have now been received by the supervisory authority. Not only is the sector positive, but the sector is also waiting a long time. Originally, the apf should have entered into force on 1 January of this year. In the meantime, the Secretary of State aims at 1 January 2016; a year delay. Unfortunately, we often see that in this secretary of state. I spoke to someone in the retirement world the other day who, when I was talking about the planning letter, said: oh, you mean the SZW deferment letter that we get about every three months! This delay means that we are already very tight if we want the general pension funds to be able to work effectively on 1 January. For example, the financial review framework has remained rather exciting until the last day whether the new rules would enter into force. Will this law really enter into force on 1 January 2016 in such a way that we can also get to work on that day? Because he's got to go through the Senate first, and then you're gonna need three months to get a permit. Is this gonna work on January 1st? Against the background of my general remark and in itself positive attitude towards the introduction of an apf, I still have a number of questions. The first is about the choice of the form of foundation. This means that the apf cannot be profit-making. This is intended to avoid potentially conflicting interests between short-term profits and a solid pension in the longer term. My group understands this choice, but have we understood that this will not prevent other parties from getting involved in setting up an apf? I'd like to get a reaction to that. My group has taken note with interest of the previous amendment tabled by Mrs Lodders and Mrs Vermeij. I do have some questions about that. I understand that we are striving for consolidation, but does the Secretary of State think that this will really help to boost the necessary consolidation? My group is getting signals that this amendment may still be contradictory when it comes to the justification of the obligation in relation to European law. Does the Secretary of State see such a contradiction or does it consider it unnecessary to fear it? I'd like to get a reaction to that. Mr De Graaf just asked the Secretary of State to go into this amendment in the first instance. I would like to support that request. An apf must maintain a resistance, but if two sectoral pension funds combine in the individual circles that are made possible by the amendment, this is not necessary. Isn't that amazing? How does the Secretary of State judge that element? I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State in the first place on all these points. This bill does not impose any requirements on the establishment of the Board. All five governance models in the Pension Act are in principle possible. Now the supervisors, the Dutch Bank and the Authority for Financial Markets, have actually advocated allowing only the two independent models. The models of proportional administrative representation could lead to an ever-expanding governance as more parties join an apf. The supervisor says this is undesirable, especially with a vehicle whose primary aim is to reduce administrative costs. I think that is a valid point. Why isn't the Secretary of State doing this? In answering our questions in the preparation for this treatment, she writes that she then intervenes too much in the primacy of the social partners. I must confess that this answer is not yet satisfactory for my group, because there seems to be a kind of ideological choice rather than a substantive one. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to clarify her position. Does such an apf not threaten to become unmanageable or at least expensive? That's not supposed to happen. The legislative proposal also provides for a voluntary scheme to be compulsory within the same separate assets as the basic pension scheme. I sincerely wonder whether this has added value. Indeed, there can also be very great advantages in bringing voluntary schemes, such as pension schemes for people with an income above €100,000, into a single circle. For example, the population of participants is very different from that of the basic scheme, at least in many cases. This voluntary scheme can also have a very different character. For example, it may be an available premium scheme rather than a defined benefit system. Also for fiscal hygiene it seems easier to me if you separate this. That is why I tabled an amendment together with Mr Krol which would allow an apf to establish a voluntary scheme in a separate collection circle. My picture is that there is a need for that. I'm curious to see the Secretary of State's appreciation. Its response so far has not convinced me that there would be insurmountable problems in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u23	Will Mr Van Weyenberg's general pension fund not be a kind of Hotel California, you can never leave? Suppose you have one circle for the top-up scheme and you want out of that API, because you don't agree, because it's an administrative chaos or for whatever reason. The whole idea of an API was that you can pack your stuff again and move into another API or become independent again. However, if you put that excess regulation together with all the other APIs in a large circle, you can't get out of it at all. Or am I missing something now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u24	That depends, to begin with, on whether you decide to put all voluntary schemes together in one ring or in separate rings. I believe that the amendment offers both choices. That choice can be made in advance by a fund. The question is correct. I am also curious about the answer given by the Secretary of State, but I do not see that as an insurmountable problem, because a fund or a fund's management can take this into consideration in advance in determining how it wants to deal with voluntary schemes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u25	You already have two different jars with a kind of ringfencing between the basic scheme and the 100,000-plus scheme. That has to do with fiscal hygiene. Tax hygiene provides that it is a net scheme. You don't want money from something that's already been paid taxes going back to something that's gross and vice versa. Those two are already strictly divorced. The only thing Mr Van Weyenberg's amendment does is to allow all these excess arrangements to be put together. But if they're together, you'll never break them up again. At least that's gonna be a very difficult exercise. Is that the point? How can you, if you want to leave that API again as a pension scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u26	I don't think it's gonna be impossible. I admit immediately that, if you've combined abilities, it's a more complicated exercise than when you don't. I believe that this amendment offers choices and increases fiscal hygiene and also the chance of making the collection circles more appropriate. I find Mr Omtzig's questions interesting, but I do not yet find them prohibitive. If I did, I would have to withdraw the amendment. We have also recently seen that, in some cases, there has been a rather active affiliation policy by compulsory pension funds towards a non-compulsory industry or company pension fund by extending its statutory scope beyond the obligation. My group has always been critical of this. This obligation results in benefits for a pension fund that then uses those benefits and that is not good for the level playing field. That is why my group welcomes the amendment to the legislative proposal. In fact, it extends the scope so that you can only have an extension in the future if the conditions of Article 121 of the Pension Act are met. There must be a level playing field, a group relationship between two employers or a link directly following a period in which the employer concerned did fall within the scope of the occupational pension fund. This makes it cleaner and I think that is a good lock on the door. My group considers it important that, even in cases where the statutory scope is already wider than the mandatory scope at present, and that is the case with a number of funds, those requirements will also apply to new connections. That is why my group has tabled an amendment which actually puts a second lock on the door. It has the added advantage of preventing funds from anticipating the stricter rules in the legislative proposal between now and the entry into force of the law by extending their statutory scope preventively, so that they can still take over after the law enters into force. That is why we are tabling a second amendment. I'm curious about the Secretary of State's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u27	I have two questions about that. Is this a temporary amendment? Does this apply from now until 1 January 2016, because we then have the other supplementary regulation? My second question is: do you agree with me that the rules that will apply from 1 January 2016 on the compulsory occupational pension funds without an alternative, as we have put down for each amendment, make it possible to make it impossible to consolidate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u28	I think the latter goes too far. I do not share the sharpness that Mrs Vermeij uses. The amendment aims to make it impossible for parties that already have a broader statutory scope at that time to take over, despite the new law, which we do not consider desirable, or for parties that could now anticipate that law, to broaden their statutory scope by 1 January 2016, and thus to find a way to move beyond the tightening proposed by the Secretary of State. That's what we're trying to shut down.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u29	I get that last part. The first answer just went a little too fast for me. This amendment does make it more difficult to consolidate. We have said widely in the Chamber that this is incredibly important. This also applies to many types of funds, including the compulsory occupational pension funds. Quite apart from the question of whether you think this is a good amendment, I see with these additional measures and those articles on the scope in the legislative proposal less and less possibilities if we do not have an alternative soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u30	I think Mrs Vermeij is asking a few questions at once. Her first question is whether I am enthusiastic about the amendment tabled by Mrs Lodders and Mrs Vermeij. My answer is that I am positive about this, but I still have a number of questions of principle. I just put it. The second point is that there are demands on this bill. You have to stick to Article 121. This amendment seeks to prevent pension funds that have already widened their statutory scope in advance from actually working around the tightening up of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u31	For the record, this interruption concerned the amendment to item No. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u32	I have a few other issues, such as the note we received from the Secretary of State on the improvement of the available premium schemes. At the request of D66, among others, the Secretary of State has considered what we can already do. A bill has also been promised. The debate on the straitjacket pension, which has already been discussed here, made that even more worrying. Then it turns out that there is a need for a legal amendment to make it possible that you do not simply have to purchase a benefit at once at your retirement date in an available contribution scheme, and to make it possible to invest. That makes you less dependent on interest rates. The Secretary of State had announced a fine bill for an improved available premium scheme, but there is still further delay, despite clear agreements with the Chamber. It would be here in time. I find that extremely disappointing. How is it that this bill has been postponed over and over again? It is an important legislative proposal that ensures that available premium schemes can deliver a much better pension. Where's the bill? It is then particularly painful that Mrs Lodders should announce an initiative law to speed up, because the Secretary of State is delayed. The largest coalition party actually says that it no longer trusts at the pace of the Secretary of State and therefore submits an initiative law itself. I wholeheartedly support Mrs Lodder's approach, but this is extremely painful for the Secretary of State. I'd like to hear her reaction to that. A coalition party actually says: I have no confidence that the Secretary of State will soon come forward with this important law. How did the Secretary of State experience that? I think it's a reasonable embarrassment, I'm just saying honestly. When we asked what we could do in the short term for people with a straight-jacket pension, the Secretary of State referred to the fact that she had a legislative proposal in preparation, that she had delayed a few weeks earlier by six months. That is extremely disappointing. That is why I am very curious about the reaction of the Secretary of State to Mr Ulenbelt's proposal. He is trying to, at least until there is a new law, whether it is the Secretary of State or sooner, what I hope to offer Mrs Lodder's, an emergency solution. I am therefore curious to hear the Secretary of State's reaction to this. I also have a proposal of my own: let's just re-introduce the pension cut. That is an improvement. We have to be honest about that, too. This means that people will not yet be able to buy part of their pension benefits at this low interest rate, but will be able to do so later. Of course, this also has risks, because no one knows how interest rates develop. We have to be honest about that. If the interest rate rises, it is profitable, but if the interest rate for any reason....................................................................................................................... But if we introduce the pension cut now, at least we'll give people the direction to make that choice. For example, the Money Interests Foundation also calls for this emergency solution. I have gone into the legal technique for a moment: there was a decision that ended on a certain date. As far as I am concerned, the Secretary of State will be able to bring into force tomorrow a new ministerial arrangement, which, for example, will apply until 1 July 2016, when she expects her own law to enter into force. Then at least we've arranged that you don't have to buy your pension at that one moment, depending on that one interest. Is the Secretary of State prepared to give at least some air to the people who are now facing very low interest rates, who are not really in a position to go and wait for a law to be postponed by the Secretary of State? We've been delayed at the apf. We have been delayed in the legislative proposal to improve the available premium schemes. The Secretary of State will understand that this has not really increased confidence in my group in the future vision of pensions. There would be a policy note with very concrete variants on the basis of which we could make political choices, for example for the average premium. We'd get it as a room for the summer. It'll be June 21st in five days. Then the summer begins. Will we receive the headline note within five days, including the concrete policy variants?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u33	Let me come back to the previous point, the premium scheme available. I am, of course, very pleased that Mr Van Weyenberg wholeheartedly supports my initiative and highlights the need in these terms. We are, of course, having a different debate here on the general pension fund. Mr Van Weyenberg has now spoken very hard for the retirement cut. I've been calling for that on behalf of the VVD since 2012. When I read back the reports of the various AOs we have had on this subject, I can see that Mr Van Weyenberg has never really said a word about it. What convinced him to put this forward in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u34	That's too bad. I'll do Mrs. Lodder's justice. Let them therefore take account of the fact that I have already regularly called for attention to be paid to the fact that the current available premium schemes offer neither a moment of purchase nor a possibility of investing flexibility. That is why my group has been calling for the improved available premium scheme in all discussions for a year and a half. Now it turns out it's not gonna happen, I'm gonna go with plan B. I don't think that's the ideal plan, but at least the retirement cut can help. The reason I do that is that I expected the coalition, which the VVD is a part of, to have just made meters. I am tired of the delay, and so I am going to try to put in a number of emergency connections at least. I know that Mrs. Lodders has a heart for retirement. I therefore hope that she will at least support us in taking these emergency measures pending either Mrs Lodder's own-initiative proposal or the Secretary of State's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u35	The accusation that the coalition now needs to make meters is not entirely appropriate. Mr Van Weyenberg knows better than anyone that since 2012, we have been working on more choices, more freedom of choice, especially for those who participate in the available premium scheme. What are the substantive arguments? Why is Mr Van Weyenberg now for this temporary retirement cut? I am very much in favour of several purchasing moments, but what has Mr Van Weyenberg convinced to bring this forward in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u36	I would have liked to have dealt with this issue in general, but the coalition postponed it. Then I couldn't treat it there anymore, and that's why I'm doing it here. I see that Mrs Lodder shakes no, but at the procedural meeting the coalition had the general consultation postponed. That is why I am looking for ways to take short-term steps. We should have had the improved available premium scheme. That would've been better. Then you would have made the interest rate moment less dependent and opened up the possibility of investing after the retirement date. At least I'm trying to take one of those two steps. That can be done quickly, because the Secretary of State simply has to change the dates in the old decision. Then it will enter into force. I am surprised at Mrs Lodder's question. She wants to make meters with the new law. I support her in that. I believe that we can settle this in a ministerial arrangement from tomorrow, and I call on the Secretary of State to do so. Mrs Lodders should not blame me for being critical if the cabinet, which is still supported by the two coalition parties, does not make the promised meters in state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u37	Finally, Mrs Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u38	That is exactly the heart of the matter. Again, I think that the VVD has taken great steps in this area. This subject is not for nothing. Mr Van Weyenberg blames me for postponing general consultations. We have just had a procedural meeting and this subject was not on the agenda either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u39	No, but if the need is high and we have received a petition about it, I would have liked to see it on the agenda too. After all, we got that petition. But I don't feel like going out with Mrs. Lodders. I want the cabinet to make meters, and if that doesn't happen soon enough, I hope that Mrs Lodders will encourage the cabinet. I'm doing the same thing. She's made proposals, and so have I. And Mr Ulenbelt, whom I see now at the microphone, has also made proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u40	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u41	Mike's on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u42	He's cracking. Oh, oh, Mr Van Weyenberg provides large general pension funds with large governments and therefore expensive management. I'll share that vision with him a little bit. But then there are independent drivers in place and those are usually very expensive guests. Does Mr Van Weyenberg agree with me that we should actually arrange for these directors to be brought under the Law on Standards to top incomes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u43	This is a new sound. Every time I'm critical of pension funds, Mr Ulenbelt tells me that I'm not about it, because these are social partners in governing. I assume that I will find him on my side from now on when I criticize directors, whether they are employers' organisations or trade unions. As far as I'm concerned, pension funds can decide who they hire. I don't think you need to go to independents at all to surprise you about the salaries. Recently we have seen the example of APG. I think both Mr Ulenbelt and I were surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u44	They're performers. The board of the general pension fund will also become an executive. In order to prevent this scandal from happening again at APG, I propose that Mr Van Weyenberg apply the Top Income Standards Act to the apf drivers. He has not yet answered that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u45	That's because I'm wondering if we're not interfering too much with private parties. Mr Ulenbelt is always the first to stress this when it comes to pensions. Anyway, I'm at too high a cost of implementation. I am also against wages that are bad for pension income. I await Mr Ulenbelt's concrete and well-founded proposal with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u46	That will simply be a second-term motion asking the government to include the apf directors in the WNT.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u47	I'll take a good look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u48	Mr. Chairman. The fraction of 50PLUS sees many potential benefits in the new figure of the general pension fund. The aim of the legislative proposal to extend the choice of employers and employees to ensure high-quality, safe and cost-effective pension implementation is welcomed, especially as this can ultimately contribute to a better pension. If we really want a better pension and want to index, we need, above all, a less restrictive financial review framework and a more realistic calculation rate. The cabinet measures the benefits of the general pension fund widely. We believe that this is right, but we believe that possible disadvantages should also be identified. The question put by 50PLUS in the written report has not been answered as far as I can see. Can the Secretary of State elaborate on that today? I would like to draw attention to a single point in this connection. A general pension fund is actually a kind of financial company that competes with insurers, but also rules of the game. Is it fair from the point of view of competition if companies choose a general pension fund as a cheaper alternative to the insurer? A general pension fund can grow to as much as twenty independent rings. Does this not mean that the level of expertise required by the overall management of a general pension fund will be particularly high? Don't we take administrative risks with that? How do we check that out? Yes, it seems logical to achieve economies of scale thanks to a general pension fund, but how big are they or can they be? Can you figure that out? Surely scale benefits can be achieved mainly if the schemes grow towards each other? Premium pension institutions show that it is not yet so easy to make money or to save money with schemes that are very different. I come to a potentially very simple question, but one that concerns us and possibly the participants. We know that in the general pension fund there will be a strict separation of pension assets under capital law. Can it really be guaranteed under all circumstances and unconditionally that sound funds cannot be contaminated by funds with cover and deficits or, in the extreme, bankruptcy? We would like to receive a detailed explanation and confirmation from the Secretary of State that this danger cannot arise. We ask this question because pension lawyers are not so sure. My final question on this part of my contribution is whether the exit policy for a general pension fund can be addressed. Can the possibilities and risks of retirement of a member of a general pension fund be explained and explained? What are the risks to an overarching general pension fund and the remaining participating circles? 50PLUS considers it desirable and necessary to open up the general pension fund as soon as possible, especially for the smaller compulsory occupational pension funds. That seems perfectly logical to us. Like many small company pension funds, they have concerns about their future and continuity. They also face relatively high administrative and administrative burdens and problems of cost control and efficient implementation. For them, the general pension fund can provide an excellent solution. According to the draft law, voluntary pension funds should be housed in the same circle as the basic pension scheme. Why? However, if it is possible to include a net voluntary pension scheme in several basic schemes which are divided into different groups, the scale increase, efficiency and tailor-made work can be achieved. I'm here to pay off small pensions. I would stress that 50PLUS believes that the method of paying off a small pension should be reconsidered, especially if it takes place before the retirement age. As far as we are concerned, the agreement of the participant is always required for redemption and the participant must have a good idea of the consequences of redemption. The level of assistance and the partner payment or other income-related benefits should not be affected at all by a paid-off pension. This is intended to be a targeted old age provision and for nothing else. The Secretary of State is working on this, but how does she proceed with this issue? I would also like to congratulate Mr Ulenbelt, whom I do not see at the moment. He asked today for an investigation into the straitjacket pension. It certainly seems worthwhile to me to see if this creative idea is also feasible. Then I come to the board of a general pension fund. The way in which joint management is organised for a general pension fund is not yet fully clear. We read the bill in such a way that the joint administration should be extended to every new member. 50PLUS does not always seem desirable. Can the Secretary of State confirm that it is not an obligation to change the administration continuously and indefinitely in acceding circles? The accountability body and the relevant body raise further questions at 50PLUS. It does not seem desirable for new employers to join the accountability body or the relevant body over and over again. Should an employer who has pension schemes in multiple collection circles also participate in all the accountability and stakeholder bodies of those circles? All of this could compromise the ability to manage. In short, how can we prevent administrative obesity? Stakeholder and accountability bodies cover the state of play and decisions within specific collectivity circles. 50PLUS believes, like the trade unions, that it should also be possible to set up a central accountable body. It should be possible to comment on decisions taken by the board in general on the pension fund as a whole. A potential bottleneck arises from the legal requirement that the representation of employees and pensioners should occupy as many seats as the representation of employers. How do we deal with this with closed funds or if there are no more employers or active participants? How can these legal requirements be met? An important point is the resistance or working capital of the general pension fund in relation to the individual buffers within the collection circles. Which business risks are covered by the combined resilience required for a general pension fund and how does this relate to the technical provision that each group of collections already has to maintain under the financial review framework? Is there now no duplication of resistance, an increase in capital requirements, at the expense of the general buffers and thus indirectly at the expense of the indexing capacity of funds? We would find that really unacceptable. Those capital requirements shall not apply to a multi-enterprise pension fund. That's why I'd like to get an explanation. Finally, 50PLUS strongly supports an evaluation after the introduction of this important law. The general pension fund is a completely new, untested figure among pension funds. We think it is logical and sensible, for example, to review the law one year after its entry into force and to include all those involved in it. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u49	I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt. He signed up for 20 minutes, but he thinks he needs 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u50	Mr. Chairman. The IORP Directive came into force in June 2003. The aim of this directive was to create a pan-European pension market. This allowed you to set up pan-European pension funds. The idea of market forces and freedom of choice was the dominant virus within the European Union, which theoretically meant an unimpeded freedom of choice for employers to place their pension funds wherever they wanted. The employee does not have that choice, by the way. Participation in a pension fund is mandatory for an employee and even in the most far-reaching options currently under consideration by the ESC, this remains the case. And that's a good thing. In order to attract pension funds, countries can compete in two areas: they can levy low or no taxes and they can do supervisory arbitrage. Tax arbitrage was still called tax competence at the time, because it was something positive. For pension funds this was often subordinate because you do not pay taxes in the Netherlands about the deposit. Moreover, there is still one VAT issue, namely the ATP judgment. Is it true that pension funds that would move to Belgium, for example, do not have to pay VAT on investment costs under the rules in force there, whereas they have to do so here? If so, is that useful for the level playing field? I can ask a whole list of technical questions here, and I would very much like that as a tax spokesman, but perhaps the Secretary of State should take this up with her colleague from Finance. I hope that she will then be able to give a thorough analysis, especially of DB funds that are not subject to a landfill obligation, for which VAT is not charged abroad and in the Netherlands it is. Countries can also compete for supervisory arbitrage. Belgium also advertised promptly with obligations, with the fact that you could use a calculation rate of up to 6%. You'll never get that 6% on government bonds. You didn't get it back then, and now it's about 1%. The hangover comes later and in this case it is guaranteed. The European Union, and in particular EIOPA, had already made the next step: supervisory arbitrage is a bad idea. I agree with them. So we are going to go to European supervision, because then we can move quickly to large European pension funds and then there will be a pension union next to the banking union. That was, in concept, the content of the IORP-II directive, which I opposed as rapporteur on behalf of the Chamber. For the time being, European supervision is largely out of place, although the stress tests do not reassure me at all, because EIOPA is now carrying out stress tests on pension funds with new, uniform supervisory rules that are not called that. The Secretary of State says that in six years' time, when the EU is allowed to come up with IORP III, it is a good preparation to introduce this kind of thing. There are few worse ideas in the European Union, because fortunately IORP I is not a success for the time being. In fact, it's one big failure. There are hardly any pension funds operating in more countries, and where that is the case, it is within very natural boundaries, such as the border area between Ireland and the United Kingdom. We should not take the next step; we should, above all, take a step back. The pension system is not a market, it is social security. It is primarily a national responsibility, not an EU responsibility. This social system is not part of the European market. And yes, we can have long and intense discussions here about a post-tax of 0.7 billion, but there are no more strategic assets in the Netherlands than the pension reserve of 1,400 billion euros. It is far greater than the value of the important Groningen gas, on which we also have many debates here. It is not wrong to drop them in the national domain and not pursue a European pension system. As a result of the 2003 IORP I Directive, the government is implementing a three-step plan to create new pension institutions. Firstly, the multi-opf, secondly, the PPI and thirdly, the API, which has become an apf in this bill. So this bill is the third stage of a three-stage rocket. Let's see what happened over the last 12 years with stairs one and stairs two. The multi-opf didn't get off the ground. There are only two of them in the Netherlands and this bill contains the provision that the multi-opf will be abolished in five years' time. The PPI was intended for foreign institutions, not national institutions. That was a nice thought! The note following the further report states that the PPI is currently only used in the Netherlands. There isn't one foreign institution that uses this. That means that we also have major problems, but I will keep them for a further debate. In any event, the PPI failed for the purpose for which it was defended in the Chamber. And then the API. It was originally intended to be able to implement a foreign middle wage scheme in the Netherlands. The present proposal has already been substantially converted into an apf, so that small Dutch pension schemes have already referred several people to it instead of being wound up. That seems to us to be a much more useful goal than the original aim of the API. Is this a sensible proposal? It is a lot more sensible, because the original proposal was an adaptation to the pension union, and that was one of the worst ideas that were floating around here. But does this fit in with the future of the Dutch pension system? Mr Van Weyenberg already referred to this. That's actually the big question. In the Secretary of State's planning we would receive this week's vision of the future of the new system. So my first question is: where is this vision? Is there an agreement between the PvdA and the VVD in the back rooms? Is there gonna be a deal later? And, very importantly, does that apf fit in with that vision? It's so important to understand that. That is a very relevant question, because the pension system defeats the tax system on at least one point without problems. It's a lot more complicated than that. You have end-of-wage schemes, middle-wage schemes and available premium schemes. You have pension funds and insurers, each with a different supervisory regime. You will have pension funds, general pension funds, insurers and a few more multi-opf's with all those institutions you can put in a middle-wage scheme. And you have five governance models. You can make it a very complicated matrix that you can design your pension scheme in at least 80 to 90 different ways in the Netherlands. That doesn't make much sense. For the pension experts you have very complicated and very expensive courses, but this is really going to get out of hand. The result is that numerous experts are involved in systems and that every addition to the system makes it more complicated. Let me take an example from today. In the suggested apf you can ringfencen. In short, the apf consists of a foundation, which is allowed to pay out money by the way. Whether that's a good idea, I wonder. How do we maximize that, stick to that 5%, and why would we do that? Underneath, you can all click retirement jars. An employer can therefore say: I place my pension fund at the apf of insurer a, and if I don't like it I go to insurer b or to a large pension administrator. That's a long shot, but I'm sure the two biggest pension planners in the Netherlands, APG and PGGM, will also be setting up such a vehicle. So that's what you can do. However, you must not mix the pots of the employer. That's the whole idea behind ringfencen. This means that within one apf you will be dealing with value transfers between one scheme and the other. So far, there have been no divisions within pension funds themselves, except for those two multi-opfs. They're even banned in the Pension Act. If you make the jars small enough, you move slowly towards a much more individual system. Is that a conscious choice? Speaking of value transfers, the temporary arrangement expires on 1 July, just like the planning letter that is not being complied with here. If I understand correctly, everyone is allowed to make all the value transfers that have been frozen for 20 years, at the price that was in force at the time of the transfer of value. So you'll be able to change at a lower price. Is that what this is all about? This can be very detrimental to employers and pension funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u51	I will not deny that our pension system is complicated, but frankly I fear that Mr Omtzigt is now making it even more complicated for himself than necessary. What exactly does he mean by transfer of value? As soon as a pension fund decides to join an apf, the executioner is actually wound up. The fund then chooses, as it were, a new performer. That's a one-time thing. What value transfer is Mr Omtzig talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u52	This is a transfer of value within a multi-opf that carries out multiple schemes from multiple employers, which takes place when you go from one employer to another. You then have to do an individual value transfer, because there is a ringfence in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u53	If I'm right, it's not about the appf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u54	It is a value transfer within the structure of the apf. It's accompanied by actuarial notes. That's the direct consequence of ringfencen. I'm just saying that this is one of the complications we haven't had in the system so far. I understand that an apf offers a number of solutions, but I would like to point out that there are also some interesting complications. You'll be getting mail from the same apf that says you have to transfer value and that side payments have to be made. That's the result of ringfencing. That is precisely why we have always avoided ringfencing within a fund in this country. We thought that was undesirable because you could not maintain the circle of solidarity. Following the amendment of the PvdA and the VVD, it was noted that in the case of ringfencing within a group, you reduce the solidarity circle, narrow the European legal base to maintain a mandatory system, and raise some implementation problems. I think that was made by Mr Van Weyenberg, or by one of the later speakers. So that's what's going on. I have some questions about this bill. What are the maximum costs that can be charged by the apf structure, and how exactly are they put together? How can you influence that as a participant? I always find it very interesting that the first discussion here is always about whether pension fund managers deserve enough. I would see if the drivers of BlackRock and such deserved enough. They really earn a thousand times as much as the pension fund managers in this country. So I would like to draw attention to both what can leak to the management of an apf and whether money can be drawn from it, but also to whether the costs incurred by investments are transparent in this rather more complex structure. I still have the pension fund for the port in mind for the things we don't want. So I am not talking about whether a tenner has been charged too much. We can have long discussions about that. No: the question is whether there is a smart way to drain the pension fund. Are all these ways boarded up? And why should the voluntary net pension be implemented within the same pension assets as the basic pension scheme? Suppose a new circle with a joint administration joins the apf. Should the board expand or not? As far as the straitjacket pension is concerned, I agree with Mr Ulenbelt and Mr Van Weyenberg. It is, of course, a very sad letter sent by the Secretary of State: 'I am busy'. That is not an individual answer, because if you arrive at your AOW age with your entire pension fund now, you are obliged to convert it as a whole into a lifelong benefit. Whatever the Secretary of State makes in six months' time, those people are getting completely wet. And we've known this for two years. The interest rate is 0%. The people in pension funds with these kinds of schemes pay for the ECB's policy, which is being pursued for totally different reasons. And the Secretary of State is coming up with an interim solution. For all I care, she uses the dinner break to draw up a letter of amendment to do it for a six-month transitional period. I would also like to make a motion for this, but I would just put the request here, knowing that it is supported by many colleagues. This is necessary, otherwise we will suffer from people throughout the summer. For all I care you say one thing: you can buy for two years and in two years we will look further. Then the Secretary of State bought a year and a half and now everyone can only buy for the first two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u55	Of course, I share Mr Omtzigt's appeal, but I have proposed that we simply reintroduce the retirement cut. This is not an ideal solution, it offers no certainty, but more choice for participants. It requires only an adaptation of the decision. Does Mr Omtzigt find that an interesting idea? I think it fits in with his ideas. Then we can simply go along with an existing arrangement. It's just a matter of changing the dates and hitting a new decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u56	What I am actually doing is introducing a retirement cut for the first two years, pending consideration of what will become the definitive scheme. If the insurers are listening today, I would like to tell them that I find it particularly sloppy that in the individual investment products, which were known to be converted into a lifelong benefit, there is no interest hedge to include the high risk of changing interest rates in the investment profile. The pension funds have done so, but a number of individual insurers have not. It is quite unclear to me why this has happened. It means that this lifecycle investment promise from a number of insurers appears to be fairly empty. They're faced with that pretty hard. They're gonna have to explain that to their insured people sometime. I agree with Mr Krol on the issue of the buy-back of small pensions. This has to be resolved with retroactive effect. There are new parliamentary questions from me, and colleagues have also asked questions about them. It's just been a gang to the SVB. Today we also heard about the ICT situation there. On the Lodders/Vermeij amendment, I would like to hear whether there are any problems with European law. How's that gonna get all covered up? Perhaps there should be a letter before the votes on how things are going to be merged and split up and with participation. After all, you are creating a new form of pension fund. I have some understanding for that, but I do not have an immediate total negative view of it, but I do want it to be expanded completely. It means more than the other amendments I have seen. I would like to make a few comments on the consequences of moving a pension scheme to Belgium. They're pulling it hard. Can the Secretary of State write a letter stating exactly what the consequences would be if a Dutch pension fund decided to move to Belgium or place the schemes there? Can employees and pensioners block this? Of course, they have a great interest in being subject to a certain supervisory regime. Does the fact that your scheme is in Belgium mean that you can't make more standard value transfer? After all, you have to ask for permission from DNB. Does the Dutch or Belgian State guarantee if the fund really goes down the drain, makes wrong investments or provides too many benefits? And are people well informed? Is there any educational material that says what happens when your pension fund moves to Belgium or to any other country? If not, is the government prepared to make a standard leaflet on this, which sets out the effects of labour law and property law? In the letter of amendment, something has changed with regard to the Vermeij and others amendment. on the legal right of option around the starting date of the old-age pension. A number of funds indicate that the original amendment we tabled may also be feasible. That was a reverse choice: we postpone the standard, and we only don't do that if a person says he doesn't want to postpone it. Would the Secretary of State consider putting that in there? You'll be out of all the complicated communication at once. Someone can say that he doesn't want it to happen. That person can just write to the pension fund and then it doesn't happen. You could then also postpone until 1 January of the year following reaching the AOW-age. Then you will no longer have to pay partial AOW premiums by means of the mediation in your taxes. What is regulated in the letter of amendment I support, but perhaps this can be changed a little further. Those were my questions. The rest is going to go away, because colleagues have asked very similar questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u57	I'm suspending the meeting for dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u58	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of your Chamber for their contribution to their first term. I think it would be useful to tell you how I intend to set up my first term for the debate. I'd like to say a few general things first. I would then like to comment on the phenomenon of'retirement cuts', because in fact all Members have raised a point about this. After that, I would like to deal with the amendments that have been tabled, which we already know, successfully. I would like to say a few words about governance and, as a fifth, about consolidation. After that, I would like to walk by the various spokesmen. In short, you could say there are six cubes. I'll start with my general introduction. This leads me to focus with the members of your Chamber on the general pension fund. During the first period of this debate, a number of other issues were raised. I will be glad to go into that, but I know that your Chamber intends to hold a general meeting before the summer recess. Perhaps we can go into other subjects in greater depth. It is very important that the apf is done carefully and quickly, because there is simply a need for it in the pension world. That's what all the members of your room say. So it's nice that we can deal with this bill now. The aim of this legislative proposal is to provide some relief so that consolidation in the pension sector can also be taken on a firm footing. I have to say that Mr Van Weyenberg, in particular on the part of the D66 Group, has stressed that there is some delay here and there. You will understand that I would like to respond to that, Mr President. We have seen many legislative proposals over the past period, with the support of your Chamber and often broad support. Those were certainly not simple legislative proposals. I am therefore grateful for that. Mr Van Weyenberg specifically referred to the CDC scheme. I have indeed announced that the CDC will land at the Chamber for Christmas. That is a pity, but I have also explained why this is the case: the complexity is intense and it must be done neatly and carefully. I have always said that the promised keynote note, which was also a point of attention for the summer recess, will come to the Chamber. I also firmly intend to have the main note on the table before your Chamber goes on recess. I would like to stress this once again, because we have done a great deal of work, in fact, in the department as here and in the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u59	That is true, of course; there was also occasional delay. But I am now seeing delays in a number of important legislative proposals, such as today's apf and the premium scheme available. The Secretary of State seemed to be giving a clear answer to my question on the main note, but then suddenly a phrase followed with the meaning "as far as possible" or so. Is that note coming or not for the recess?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u60	It is my firm intention to have the headline paper landed with you. Edoch, when the sky comes down, we all get a blue hat, as they say so beautifully. As far as I am concerned, however, the main paper will land at your Chamber for the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u61	You won't be surprised that this doesn't reassure me at all. If my daughter says she's gonna do her best and have that followed by such a subtlety, I'm gonna ask around anyway. That's why I'm gonna ask you again. I promise the Secretary of State that I will not complain about it when the sky falls down, but why does she make this comment? She limits it. What is the reason for this reservation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u62	I always think that's realistic. You know you're not alone in the world when it comes to presenting one and the other. Again, if it's up to me, the headline paper will come to your Chamber for the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u63	I understand the Secretary of State will do that if it's up to her, but the Cabinet has agreed to do so. I'm sure the Secretary of State is talking to other colleagues from the cabinet. Does she have any reason to make this comment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u64	I simply think it is very realistic to always make this comment on any proposal that remains to be looked at by the cabinet. Edoch, I have faith in the cabinet on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u65	Not at all! Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u66	I'm getting to the core now. Why do we all want this general pension fund? We know that the number of pension funds has been falling for years and we know that the current options are limited. It is important that there can be scale size and conservation of individuality. This is not least in the interest of the participant, because in 1999 there were just over 1,000 pension funds in our country, in 2007 there were just over 700 and the latest figures from the Netherlands Bank show that there are still 341 pension funds. So there is a real need to join forces. I have been asked to mention the names of pension funds interested in such a general pension fund. I do not do that here, but anyone who has followed the journals in recent months knows that a number of pension funds have publicly indicated that the possibilities of such a general pension fund are really more than worth investigating. In addition, the Netherlands Bank knows on the basis of signals from pension funds that there are at least twenty funds that are seriously considering joining an apf. This was my introduction. I would now like to talk about the retirement cut, which is a bit of an annex. In fact, all the members of the Court who have spoken in the first place have stressed the complexity of the situation surrounding low interest rates. They have indicated that the 'choice' pension, as it is called, is really a matter of attention. Of course, the retirement cut has been highlighted many times in recent times, especially by Mrs Lodders of the VVD. There is also a history of this. The pension cut has been closed, based on an evaluation. Now a number of members are proposing to re-introduce that pension cut. I am sympathetic to this, but I think of this as an emergency solution. We have to realise that there are also disadvantages to pension cuts. That's what the previous evaluation showed. The development of interest rates is and remains a risk; we just know that, that's an open door. Temporary benefits are relatively expensive. In view of the explicit request of the Chamber and of parties in society, I propose that the pension cut be revived for up to two years. Renewal of the pension cut is possible under ministerial arrangements. So that can be done quickly. In parallel to preparing for the revival of the cut, I want to conclave with the pension practitioners so that they also know what is required of them. I will, of course, also include the parallel with the legislative proposal in preparation to optimize premium agreements. That's why I choose two years. I am sure that this bill will come into force. I will report to the Chamber as soon as possible when possible. I would like to say that I am in favour of this solution and not of the solution put forward by Mr Ulenbelt on the part of the SP. This solution offers sufficient relief for this time. So much for my response to the retirement cut.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u67	The Secretary of State quite rightly points out that risks persist in the case of pension cuts. They're pretty good. However, if someone joins his own pension fund, where he already had a pension, he will find himself in a completely different situation in terms of risks. The Secretary of State could therefore at least make it possible. Then people can choose: retirement cut or transition to the old pension scheme. Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u68	The pleasure of this is that it can be done relatively quickly. It is also something that the social partners have laid down to me. In addition, the Court asked for it in the first place. I think this is an emergency solution that provides relief for those who would like to make that choice. I'd like to keep it on top of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u69	The Secretary of State is making a complicated law that should make investment possible, among other things. If someone puts that money in a pension fund because he's already got a pension there, they're going through it. It's very easy, isn't it? Why would you remember those people that choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u70	Because that really comes with a change of law. Well, then you've got a pretty long way to go. The charm of this suggestion is that, of course, I can beat that ministerial arrangement very quickly. I am therefore very much inclined to do so, if the Chamber thought that was a good idea. Then you can act fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u71	Mr Ulenbelt's suggestion is at least interesting to look at. Wouldn't there already be a possibility for that in the Pension Act? Maybe we can get some clarity on that from the Secretary of State in the next few days or weeks. I'm just gonna come back to retirement. I very much welcome the Secretary of State's commitment. It is an emergency solution, but it is a very desirable emergency solution, so that at least we have a bridge until the time when the cabinet's bill and also my own initiative see the light of day. At least that can be a relief. Can the Secretary of State indicate how quickly it can reach a decision? When will it be able to come up with this ministerial arrangement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u72	I'm doing the best I can to beat that ministerial arrangement for the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u73	I'm attached to speed. I believe that all parties in this Chamber attach great importance to this in view of the need. After that, of course, the performers will need a period of time to adapt, communicate and so on. Recess is in two and a half weeks. So I challenge the Secretary of State to report to the Chamber well before the recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u74	I'll take note of this. I said what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u75	I thank the Secretary of State for at least wanting to do something. It did not refer by mistake to the evaluation of the pension cut that lasted four or five years. Less than 100 people took advantage of this at the time. For quite a few people it also went negative, because interest rates continued to fall afterwards. Much below zero it will not fall, but if you invest, you can of course make both profit and loss. That's part of it. There are quite a few implementation problems. Since the previous cut did not work, the flat input of the previous cut will not solve everything. That's why I said make sure you can just buy something for two years and postpone the rest, so you don't have too many implementation problems. Would the Secretary of State be able to send a letter to the Chamber within a week, so by the end of next week, stating what the concept of her looks like? Then perhaps in the last week before the recess we can have a very brief discussion and make the assessment: is this something that will work over the next two years, or will we all be back at the interrupting microphone in October to see that the chosen solution is not the right one?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u76	As Mr Omtzigt rightly says, we have shared the evaluation of the pension cut. So we know exactly where the pinches of the cut are. That's one way of putting it. This measure is not the panacea for low interest rates, but it can help people in their own balancing. I think there's just clarity over the cut. That's obvious. We've already cut him once. A number of people have taken advantage of it. At that time, interest rates were still higher than they are now. I don't think there's any need to further adjudicate him. This can also lead to delays.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u77	This surprises me anyway. Serious problems have emerged in the implementation process. So we know the last snipe. Proposals have also been made from the field to deal with some of these issues. Since this is not the legislative consultation that is going to go over the cut, I have made this proposal and I have told the Secretary of State: within a week send the Chamber a letter explaining how you want to do it and what the Chamber might change; then we can look at whether that cut is going to work. If we're gonna return the old cut like it was, I'm afraid we're gonna complain about it again in a month. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to come forward with a letter in a week's time setting out the possibilities for the new decision to deal with the problems of the old cut.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u78	The room attaches to speed. I understand that, too. Of course, we've kept the old snipe against the light. I'm not hiding the fact that there are risks involved. But those risks are known to everyone. When people step on it, they know it. I know that the further coloring of the cut has no added value. I am therefore committed to providing the new cut with a new ministerial arrangement as soon as possible, so that it can really be used. I do understand Mr Omtzigt's question, which is why I am looking for a way to bring this Chamber into the process without delay for the summer recess. Because if I send a letter to the Chamber about which she may still want to talk, it will, of course, be very tight. I am therefore committed to creating a two-year transitional period for the old ministerial arrangement in order to revitalize it. Then everyone can decide whether or not to make use of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u79	Why not do one and not leave the other? Mrs Lodders finds Mr Ulenbelt's idea very sympathetic. She therefore asked the Secretary of State to consider that idea. The big problem would be the legislative path, but we can just include that in the letter of amendment in this process. Then we can, of course a little slower because you still have to go to the First Chamber, do one without leaving the other. I say do it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u80	I have, of course, listened carefully to this Chamber. If something is clear, it is that she would like the apf to come into force on January 1st. This means that both Chambers must agree, but also that DNB permits must be applied for. In short, if we add any additional items to this, I can give the Chamber a note stating that there is a delay. I really want to introduce this bill lean and mean on 1 January 2016. All the spokesmen think very clearly that I should continue with that apf. But there are also, of course, additional issues that I must also treat seriously, including the cut. I said what I said. I have also said that I do not think it is appropriate to go into further research and to point out. Because, of course, we still have a lot of work to do. Let us try to offer a two-year transitional period by means of this cut. By then, we will have the new proposal on the CDC scheme, which will allow for a change of everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u81	There is no need to delay the legislative process at all. Authorisations must be requested for the apf. In addition, it is a simple amendment to the Pension Act, in line with what Mr Ulenbelt said. It's about taking your own money to the pension fund you're already in. So you're transferring it from an insurance company to a pension fund. That's actually all you do. Surely that can go on very well without that other route being delayed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u82	I think it's a good idea tonight to lead the apf with you to a provisional ending or a start. I have dealt with the fact that the whole Chamber is calling attention to the fact that low interest rates are affecting people. That's all I want to do now. I do not want to carry out additional research into possible solutions. After all, we are once again discussing the CDC regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u83	I'd still like to get some clarity. You're revitalizing the old retirement cut. It lasted for five years. For the next two years, you're gonna give people the opportunity to do that haircut for five years. In many cases, this means that people are at risk, because after that life can look even more bleak, just to pour it into retirement terms. That's why so little use was made of it. I think it is relevant for the Chamber, for the participants and for the communication to participants to know whether that means that in many cases the benefit is lower, even lower, because in the big things that mattered the purchase was so damn low because of that low interest rate. Did I get that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u84	Sure. I really didn't put that under any of the seats or sofas. I believe that we should make this crystal clear to participants in our communication in the world of funds and insurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u85	I have a follow-up question. I think we are all asking for a two-year transitional period. We hope that there will then be another solution which is much better and which we do not have at present. A revitalisation of the old scheme was a five-year retirement cut.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u86	Just so we're clear, I'm proposing two years now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u87	So you're suggesting that people opt for a two-year retirement cut.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u88	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u89	I have an enlightening question. It means it's a different shape of the cut than it has been so far. I welcome the Secretary of State's response. In my own contribution, I said that this is not a miracle solution. My question was about communication. In reply to Mrs Vermeij, the Secretary of State said that we must communicate properly. I strongly urge that the information that people receive from their insurer is such that they realise that they are taking the opportunity to get a better pension later, but that they are also a little more at risk in the run-up to it. Is the Secretary of State going to discuss this with the insurers, so that people who make that assessment know very well what consideration is under it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u90	Yes, because of course this is essential. People who get into this need to know exactly what they are getting into and what the risks are, for the better and for the less good. The one about the snipe. Then I come to the amendments. I think it would be useful to deal with this first, because then I will also have some parts of the debate to deal with. I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 12. Mr Lodders and Mr Vermeij have tabled an amendment aimed at...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u91	The amendment in part No. 12 is piece No. 17 years old. Does replacing the amendment have to do with the name?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u92	This is a minor change to the explanatory statement. The amendment may be considered at the end. That's no problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u93	The substance of the amendment has remained the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u94	Then I choose to deal with it now, because then it's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u95	Yeah, you do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u96	I understand that everyone - and that also applies to me - would find it very good if the compulsory occupational pension funds could also play their part around apf and their role. I informed the Chamber that we are in the process of investigating this very quickly. In the summer the research will come to a conclusion and I would like to present to the Chamber in the autumn the results of the research and the way in which I intend to proceed with those results. So I don't have to make it a secret at all: the ideal picture is, of course, that the general pension fund offers a solution for all types of funds. I understand that compulsory occupational pension funds are also eager. However, I do not want the obligation to be put at risk now. Members will understand that I want to be very careful with that. The central question in this amendment and in the investigation is: what consequences does this have for the obligation? The answer to that is that we are not sure now. The obligation is an infringement of European competition law. European competition law allows the obligation because there is an essential social objective, as it is called. Preventing competition on the employment condition of pensions and allowing as many people as possible to build up pensions are the essential social goals. But there must be conditions. This is also apparent from the case law of the European Court of Justice. At the core, there must be sufficient solidarity features. The question is whether a judge will judge whether there are sufficient solidarity features if one of these characteristics, in this case the requirement of a single financial whole, disappears. I think it is very important that we also include the content of the amendment in the investigation. Once again, I find the content of the amendment very sympathetic. I would also like to leave it to the House's opinion on the content, but I cannot do so at the moment. I have listened to both the expertise in my own department and the expertise in Finance. In this context, therefore, I cannot leave the amendment to the opinion of the Chamber, but I must advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u97	Can the Secretary of State then comment on the average premium section? Does that contain sufficient solidarity characteristics? We have, of course, also done our homework as the authors of the amendment and listened to it here and there. Then there are real experts who say that this already brings with it sufficient solidarity features.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u98	The average premium is of course also part of the research. Those who have noted worthy things about this in the context of the amendment are themselves closely involved in the investigation. I think it is very important that we await the investigation before we can actually apply this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u99	The Secretary of State has indicated that she will address the individual questions at the end of the blocks. It is precisely this amendment that is intended to allow the funds that are in the water's mouth to act. If we have to wait for the investigation and we have to prepare a legislative amendment, we will be another year. What is the response of the Secretary of State to the funds that are keen to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u100	I can't make it prettier than it is. I think I should report to the Chamber that the risks could be really serious. I don't think you can just anchor an amendment in your laws. As much as I am concerned about the content of this amendment, I do not think that we can say yes to this amendment at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u101	Mr Van Weyenberg, I see that you have a question, but I will first give Mrs Vermeij the floor, because it concerns her amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u102	Still, let's focus on the content. I share the Secretary of State's analysis that European statements also focus on the extent to which there is solidarity and that this is quite a complicated issue. Solidarity remains fully guaranteed in the current pension scheme and collections, including with this amendment. There is no change in the risk-sharing of the separate assets. So it's just an estimate of the legal risks. I believe that these risks are not so great, partly because of the opposition from the field to this amendment. There will have to be resistance first. There's gonna have to be a corridor to the judge first. My mailbox contains many comments, also critical, but in general they are positive. We estimate that these risks are lower, especially in the context of European legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u103	I have to say that the appreciation of the Chamber may be a little different from my appreciation, but I can't make it any more beautiful than I have done. My appreciation means that at the moment I have no choice but to discourage the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u104	I find it complicated. I welcome the aim of the amendment, which was tabled by two groups which together have a majority in the Chamber. In the eyes of the Secretary of State, the amendment puts them at an irresponsible risk. Will the Secretary of State indicate what the risks are? Does she wish to comment on Mrs Vermeij's comment that the risk per entity does not change? Does the possible disappearance of the average premium affect the way in which I have to look at this amendment? I was shocked by Mrs Lodder's link, because I think that this average premium should be cancelled. Anyway, I really need more substance from the Secretary of State in order, in my opinion, to make a proper assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u105	Let me try to respond as carefully as possible, also in the context of the average premium. The obligation is an infringement of European competition law, but it is allowed because of the essential social objective. The framework conditions I have just mentioned must be there. This is demonstrated by the case law of the European Court of Justice. There must be sufficient solidarity. The requirement of a financial whole, good Dutch for a ban on ringfencing, is one of those characteristics. The average premium is one of those. There are others like that. Of course, we do not know in advance what a judge considers important and what he or she does not consider important, but there are lawyers who have opinions on this. My appreciation is that the judge will consider that there are insufficient solidarity features if one of these characteristics, in this case the requirement of a financial whole, disappears. That is the essence of this amendment. On the basis of that appreciation, I'd rather wait for the investigation, among other things, on this issue. Then we can see if we can still get out of the way with this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u106	If I understand correctly, there remain two separate obligations. Would the Secretary of State like to go into that again? Does the Commission intend to answer my question as to whether an additional threshold is set for the abolition of the average premium in the future from a European point of view of competition if this amendment is to succeed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u107	The last one is a nice as-dan question. That's looking into the future. I would like to stress that, at the moment, the cabinet does not consider it wise to include this in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u108	I am somewhat surprised by the reasoning, especially since this reasoning was not followed by the legislative proposal. Within the apf ringfencing takes place. This does not lead to European law problems, however. However, that is not what my question is about. I see, like Mr Van Weyenberg, that this amendment in its present form is likely to reach a majority. I would like to see an extension of what it means for participation rights if it goes in or out, because the merging of two pension funds is quite complicated. We have seen this in the multi-opf and in this bill on the apf. There are a lot of questions about how to do that: who determines the investment policy, you have one pool, and you name it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u109	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u110	My first question was whether the Secretary of State can explain what it is doing on each of these points either now or in writing for tomorrow, because on Thursday we are voting. Soon we'll have a new form of pension fund, a kind of multi-bpf, but we don't know if that's going to fly. If we have that effect, we have an idea if that's about what we want it to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u111	I am not saying for nothing that I would like this amendment to be seamlessly linked to the research that we have done. Mr Omtzigt really has a point. We cannot yet fully understand the situation in all these facets. You can't do that in 12 or 24 hours. You really need expertise for that. We've now aligned that expertise. I would like to be able to use them to interpret this amendment correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u112	This is the second time this has happened. It just happened at the cut, and it happens here. This is not a new question. This question was not raised by these two parties a few days ago when that amendment was tabled. This demand has been hovering over the market for a year, as has the demand for pension cuts. Now we stand here and the Secretary of State says with his hands in the air that she cannot answer that question within a week or a day, and that we should not do it. When will the documents be prepared in such a way that these legitimate questions can be answered in the legislative proposal, because this is a legitimate question? Then we can make a decision, both about the retirement cut and about this. I repeat the question as to whether the Secretary of State is prepared to continue to do so. Or are we supposed to vote in the dark and then we'll see what happens afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u113	I do not think this is entirely right, if I may say so, because we are dealing here today with the appf as it has been presented. Of course there's business annex. Of course, on the basis of an investigation, I would very much like to look at how we do this with the compulsory occupational pension funds, as I have also informed the Chamber. I really do that on the content, because I myself am very attached to it. I can send a letter to the Chamber about a few of those facets, but to really get into the depths, you're gonna need that research expertise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u114	Do you mind if I ask when that letter is coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u115	I would like to anchor what I can tell the Chamber about this in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u116	So for the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u117	I would also like to say in the letter what I cannot yet indicate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u118	The Secretary of State says, as an assessment of the amendment, which, as far as I can see, can gain broad support in the Chamber, that it is a difference of appreciation. I sometimes stand in the shop with my wife and we sometimes have a difference of appreciation, but the person who has the wallet or deals with it, then decides. The question to the Secretary of State is what consequences it will have if the amendment is adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u119	I hope Mr Ulenbelt's wife always has her own wallet in her pocket. Anyway, in this context, that shouldn't spoil the fun. Let me be quite clear that the substance of the amendment can count on a positive basic position on my part. Edoch, I would very much like to take a legal look at whether we are at risk, because we should not do that. I have just promised Mr Omtzigt that, as far as we can, we will entrust matters to the paper, but that there are also matters that we need to examine more closely. I don't think there's any misunderstanding about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u120	I also suggested that the bill be retained until that investigation has been carried out. Then we can talk about it. Materially, ten, twenty, thirty occupational pension funds also want to consolidate. They cannot, however. That is why that amendment has been tabled. Then the Secretary of State must either say 'do that amendment and then we'll see' or 'we'll postpone the legal process until I've looked into it properly'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u121	No. I have just proposed to the House that this proposal be brought to a successful conclusion and that we await the examination of the compulsory occupational pension funds. First things first: we can't keep the rest of the world waiting for the results of the investigation, because then we won't make it 1 January 2016 for the rest. I would very much regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u122	I have a quick question. The applicants have examined it all extensively, but the Secretary of State wants to have an additional investigation done. When does the Secretary of State intend to present the results of that investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u123	After the summer recess, because in the summer recess the research will produce results.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u124	If I think the same chronologically, that means that the results will be presented before the bill is dealt with in the First Chamber. So we can safely adopt the amendment and assess the research. The research is very much in line with what Mrs Vermeij has said. The First Chamber can then decide on the bill in its wisdom. The Secretary of State particularly appreciates the content of the amendment, so is this a passable road?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u125	I think this is a nice way to reason, but I don't think this is a good way to deal with the bill. However, it is up to the Chamber to do so. I need to be very clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u126	Do I now hear the Secretary of State say that she is dissuading the amendment because it puts the obligation at risk? Is that the summary of the debate in the last 15 minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u127	Yeah, I just want to make sure that the obligation as such isn't a liability.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u128	This is a very fundamental point in retirement land. It raises the question of the consequences of this amendment, which was tabled by two political groups with a majority in the Chamber, of which a majority can count on the vote. Does that have any effect on the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u129	Yes. I must then seriously consider it, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u130	That the Secretary of State would seriously consider it, I interpret it as a consideration on her part to withdraw the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u131	I wouldn't be happy about that, and neither would the pension funds that are now waiting for it, but it is what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u132	I find this last answer rather brittle, in all honesty. If the Secretary of State is seriously considering something, there is only one connotation here, and that is that she is considering withdrawing the bill. Can she clarify this? Is that what she's saying or not? If it wants a way out, let it make use of Mr Klein's suggestion and Article IV of the bill, because that does indeed allow different articles of the law to enter into force at a different time. Then there's just an emergency brake in it: if there's a total drama in the investigation that the Secretary of State is having this summer, she can decide not to let the bill enter into force. That seems to me to be more sensible to the proposers than to threaten to take the whole bill off the table here. We are not dealing with so many pension laws here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u133	Well, we've dealt with a lot of legislation on pension matters. It's not a threat at all. I think we should simply treat each other nicely in terms of assessing risks. I gave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u134	However, it is essential for the choice to do something with the amendment to know whether the Secretary of State subsequently includes or withdraws the bill, or whether she, somewhat a contrecoeur, continues to do so, or whether she, therefore, made use of Article IV of the bill a third possibility: "The articles of this law shall enter into force at a time to be determined by royal decree, which may be different for the various articles or parts thereof'. Or, of course, we can put that article on the record if there are really big problems. I think that's the three flavors out there. Which of those three flavors does the Secretary of State choose? Or are we not gonna find out until after the vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u135	I think it is wise for me to come back to that in my second term, because I understand Mr Omtzigt's question and I am going to take this short time to look at it as a dance story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u136	The debate is starting to take a strange turn. First, an amendment has been tabled on the appreciation or the legal scope of which you can have a difference of opinion. However, the Secretary of State wishes to ensure that the amendment is seamlessly aligned with the study, which suggests that this amendment might do something which is a problem. In fact, it is addressed in detail in the note following the report: yes, the compulsory occupational pension funds play an essential role in the consolidation process. Now the Secretary of State says that this may also be possible, or at least that it will come back in the second term to the consequence of adopting this amendment. It's either one or the other. Whether this amendment is incorrect, incorrect and legally incorrect, but then I also want to be fed with arguments and then the appreciation is really something other than that something is not right. Or the Secretary of State says, "This is what the Chamber can judge, I'd rather see it differently, I'll continue my investigation, I'll advise, but the Chamber decides." That's a really big difference. The Secretary of State says both now. That's not consistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u137	So it turns out that there is noise on the line in that sense. It is, of course, simply up to the Chamber to see how it deals with this amendment. If the amendment is adopted, then it is up to me to look at how I deal with it. That's how the situations relate to this. That's life. If I am asked whether I want to say now what I am going to do, then I would like to respond to the Chamber by saying something extra about it in the second term. But we relate to each other in the way we always do, of course, namely that the Chamber looks at what it does or does not do per amendment and that the Cabinet gives an opinion on that point. My formal opinion on this has really been dissuaded by Mrs Vermeij. Then I am asked from the Chamber what I do when the amendment is adopted. I said that I would like to say something about it in the second term. But my formal advice has been dissuaded. I shall continue with the amendment to item No. Mrs Lodders said that a general pension fund should set up a separate stakeholder body for each group of collections. The purpose of this amendment is to make it possible to merge those stakeholder bodies. I fully understand the desire to reduce administrative burdens. The VVD wants to come up with such a reduction, so I think this is a good addition and I leave the judgment to the Chamber. Secondly, I come to the amendment to item No. 15 by Mr Van Weyenberg, who regulates voluntary membership of an occupational pension fund in the event of equal wage development. The aim is to make it undesirable for a compulsory occupational pension fund to be able to pursue an active voluntary membership policy in cases where Article 121 of the Pensions Act is not complied with. The legislative proposal envisages the proposed Article 121a at industry level and an extension of the statutory scope. So I see this as a further refinement of the legislative proposal, and I have no objection to it if the Court decides to do so, so I will leave the amendment to the Chamber. Then I come to the last amendment, the amendment to item No. 16 members Van Weyenberg and Krol. That amendment concerns the voluntary net pension scheme within a separate collection circle. I have no objection to this amendment in view of the desire to achieve economies of scale and to reduce administrative burdens and implementation costs within the framework of this legislative proposal. I also leave the opinion on this amendment to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u138	I had raised the question of how to uncover this issue at the time of retirement from the API with a pension scheme. Then they're joined together. Is there any provision for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u139	I believe that the social partners should make clear agreements in advance on the question of whether or not we are entering into this. Then we must also think about the advantages and disadvantages. In this context, it is mostly DC schemes, 100,000-plus schemes. That is something we need to think carefully about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u140	There's gonna be something really weird in the law right now. The API was meant to ring. Everything that belongs to one employer is the one ring. Because of everything that belongs to the other employer, there's another ring. However, part of it, while still a small part of the programme is being implemented when certain electoral programmes are being carried out, is a large part of it being merged. You get a pension fund that isn't slimy at the top but at the bottom it is. That's a really weird mixture. There's no reason to do that. You can't break it up. You're gonna miss your target, aren't you? I understand that you want to achieve economies of scale, but you go right into the heart of the API and the idea that as an employer you can choose to leave an API, because you can't do that anymore. As a legislator, you have to consider in advance how you might step out of it at the moment you have an argument or at the moment you are in the clinch with the performer? This is not the same as the other pension scheme. How's that going? This is part of the legal process, especially if the opinion on the amendment is left to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u141	I am not saying for nothing, also for the Acts, that it is essential that the social partners realize in advance what they say 'yes' to. They must also consider in advance how they want to deal with any withdrawal or withdrawal. So I put this to the social partners, but it is very good that we stress this once again in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u142	Legislation is not intended for situations where there is consultation, but for situations where there is conflict. That is precisely why you have legislation, whether it is divorce or contract law. If two parties are in the clinch, you have to be able to fall back on something. Then you have to be able to read back in the law how to solve it, so parties can break up. When parties are merged and you explicitly put in the law that they can leave, you also have to record exactly how the process is put together. That is not what is happening in the amendment. So we will have problems later if no agreement is reached on this, which is not going to happen. Is there going to be a way of conflict resolution in somewhere, or are we waiting for an API board to explode once?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u143	The scope of the amendment is left to the discretion of the Chamber, but the supplementary questions put by Mr Omtzigt in the first term are as follows: If one wishes to make use of it, I am referring to voluntary net pension schemes within a single circle of collectivity, one must realize what one says 'yes' to. The responsibility for this lies with the social partners. These were the amendments. I'm gonna continue with the "governance" block. Questions have been asked about this. Mrs Lodders and Mr Krol asked whether an employer should be in a stakeholder body, if a closed fund joins a general pension fund with independent management. There is no employer's representation in the stakeholder body in a closed fund group where the employer's company has ceased to exist. That's okay. That's okay. That's okay. If the employer's undertaking still exists, that representation is there. That seems obvious to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u144	Is it then an obligation that the employer in the...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u145	Yes, but it can be agreed that the employer's representation is lower. Mrs Vermeij and Mr Knol asked how we would ensure that the administrative model of the general pension fund would not be put under pressure in the event of new accessions. Isn't the board getting too heavy on new entrants? They also asked whether this would be agreed upon at the start of the general pension fund. At the start of the general pension fund, a governance model will have to be chosen. A general pension fund that wants a larger number of collectivity circles can opt for independent governance. The size of the administration is therefore limited. It won't be Polish country days, I'll say. Stakeholders are represented on a joint board. If new companies or industries join, this will have an impact on the composition of the board. Agreements can be made, for example, on the representation of multiple employers by one person. As indicated in the note following the further report, it is important for the supervisor to be workable and effective. In the case of too large a government, that element may be put under pressure. This may lead to the administration itself having to observe that the boundaries of a particular model are being seen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u146	The word 'kan' has many cases and it is also common in the note on the occasion of the further report. This means that the board itself must come to the conclusion that a particular model is unworkable. Usually it has been very unworkable for a long time. Isn't that why it's up to the supervisor to look at that before? I would also ask that, should many pension funds wish to participate in a particular apf, they should set some sort of ceiling. You can imagine that there are a lot of little ones in it, for example more than ten. You do not want a Polish country day. That's what we all say. However, we use a determination all the time. This means that we will not do anything until the situation has become unworkable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u147	Yes, but all small funds must of course feel taken seriously. It is therefore very important that every time we look again and again at how we can disconquer an affiliated fund with the individuality that goes with it. The way in which we have colored it now means that one can indeed choose oneself how to shape it, with the understanding that you can use multiple funds from one person.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u148	So that representation can take place. It seems to me that it is too early to come up with amendments, but this seems to me a good subject to include in the evaluation very comprehensively. I'm also gonna see if I can table a motion on it in the second term. It is precisely on this point that I do not think the law is entirely strong enough. As the Minister himself says, also in the note on the report: "This may lead the administration itself to find that the boundaries of a particular model are coming into view." This requires a lot from a board that also wants to feel represented.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u149	True, but the supervisor can always intervene if a fund is not manageable. That's always on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u150	That's true. Mrs Vermeij said: by the time a government itself realizes that it doesn't work and actually undos its own governance model, you're already very upset. This looks like we're not going to dampen the well until the calf has drowned, because then an unmanageable situation has arisen. I would therefore like to repeat Mrs Vermeij's question, although I will not ask it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u151	This would mean amending the law in such a way that we would have to set a ceiling or limit the size of the administration. I wouldn't be for that. I believe that with these terms of reference and with the clarity of board members, we have created sufficient opportunities. The stick behind the door is, of course, always the supervisor, who intervenes if it would run out of spigates. I think we should get to work on the law in this way. Mr Van Weyenberg asked why we did not limit the number of administrative models at the front. Reducing choice could limit the possibilities for the apf, for example, an apf that wants to work for several companies or industries can choose independent governance. Such a choice avoids excessive driving. For a general pension fund operating for an employer or a small number of employers, a joint management can be a good choice. I wouldn't be in favour of limiting the number of governance models right now. Mr Van Weyenberg asked whether other commercial parties could also set up a general pension fund. In itself, parties can set up a general pension fund, but it should always be a foundation. This means that there can be no profit-making. The foundation is an ideal legal form for a general pension fund, because a foundation is not allowed to make payments to people, unless the benefits are of an ideal or social nature. That really is a fundamental difference compared to an e.g. or a nv. Mr Klein asked me to confirm that it is not an obligation to change the joint administration upon a new accession. The answer to that is no. If new companies or industries join a general pension fund, this will have an impact on joint management. The rules for representation of stakeholders on the board also apply to new entrants. However, it is possible to agree on, for example, the representation of multiple employers by one person. I come to the next block: consolidation. Mr Van Weyenberg asked how I see the future of the pension sector in the broad sense of the word. He will not be surprised if I reply that I will have the headline note sent to the Chamber before the summer. There will also be an appreciation of the cabinet on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u152	It wasn't an invitation to the Secretary of State to explain her headlines. I'm sure my heart is beating, but my question was specifically about consolidation. There is a very strong consolidation trend. Does the Secretary of State think that the apf makes an important contribution to this? Does she agree with me that there is still considerable scope for further consultation and that this is desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u153	Look, the general pension fund naturally offers opportunities for pension funds that seek economies of scale but do not want to merge. Social partners have the conditions of employment under their control. It would help to further reduce the complexity of the many pension schemes, but that is, of course, also on the table of the social partners. I think that the apf that is now before the Chamber offers a solution for consolidating, but it is not the only solution. There will undoubtedly be mergers and other issues. By the way, we have already discussed this summer's research on a wide scale. With the results of this study, we will consider whether we can further help consolidate the sector pension funds that are made compulsory. Then I come to a question from the SP. What are the economies of scale for small funds? There are several elements. There is more efficient implementation, lower implementation costs and some administrative benefits may also be raised. There was another question from Mr Ulenbelt. Why don't we get small funds to join big ones, like ABP or otherwise? Small pension funds sometimes join large funds, but that is not always the solution or a solution. For example, there is not a sectoral pension fund for each industry. Moreover, small funds sometimes want to retain their own identity. That is not the case with joining a larger fund. That's why I think the appf is a good instrument for that. Mr Ulenbelt also asked whether this is a step towards a single national pension fund and whether I would go back to that in the main letter. This is indeed a scaling-up vehicle. That is obvious, because that is also a purpose of it. However, it is not the first step towards a national pension fund. That makes perfect sense to me. I will go into different directions in the main paper. A national pension fund can also be a mindset in this respect. Questions have also been asked about the buy-back of small pensions, but that does not really concern this issue. So I am a little hesitant whether or not I will go into it widely. I have already sent it to your Chamber in writing. For the sake of clarity, therefore, I shall leave it to the questions of the various spokesmen, starting with Mrs Vermeij's question. Mrs Vermeij's question was about seed capital. The pension funds that want to enter into an apf can use the resistance, the so-called "excasso cost provisions" for start-up capital. So that's what it's supposed to be. Mrs Lodders asked how this bill is going to be implemented. Are we gonna make it to January 1st? I'm sure I intend to. I am, of course, dependent on third parties on this point. If your Chamber could decide to do so, the bill will go on to the Upper House. I hope the First Chamber can put this bill on the agenda immediately after the summer recess. The Netherlands Bank is already very constructive and customer-friendly in the starting blocks with regard to licensing. Everyone needs to know that. The Nederlandsche Bank is very open to discussions with pension funds in the opmaat to 1 January. I see that Mrs Lodders is also in the starting blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u154	I see she's at the microphone. Go ahead, Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u155	I was wondering if the block of "Lodders" had been completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u156	No, I've got a couple of other "Lods."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u157	Then I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u158	I'm gonna get to the line. Can I indicate how I dealt with Actal's advice? On the basis of Actal's opinion, the explanatory memorandum has been amended. For example, the possibilities for social partners to pool information with employers and participants have been highlighted. That was indeed a very good advice. We certainly took some of those opinions and followed them. Mrs Lodders asked a question about resistance, as did Mrs Vermeij. Why doesn't that create barriers? The aim of resistance is to cope with operational risks. This is necessary because business is strictly separated from pension assets where "only" investment risks and longevity risks fall. The level of resistance takes into account the fact that the threshold should not be too high. In addition, it looks at how existing provisions for operational costs can be used in this resistance capacity. I have just explained this in reply to Mrs Vermeij. Finally, Mrs Lodders asked if I could say something about identifying the possibilities of the so-called cross-border vehicle. In principle, it is possible for an apf to implement foreign schemes. However, the financial review framework is particularly suitable for Dutch schemes. Widening prudential rules for foreign schemes requires complex regulation. The government has chosen to wait and influence developments in European thinking. I've had an exchange of views with the Chamber on this before.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u159	I'm gonna bring up my questions. Firstly, I asked a question about authorisation. I am pleased to hear from the Secretary of State that DNB is in the starting blocks, but if there is a vote on this bill here and when it goes to the First Chamber, there must be hard work to have it dealt with there before 1 October. Suppose there are funds that need just over three months of preparation, including for the licensing process, how does the Secretary of State deal with that? What is the DNB Directive?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u160	I am going to talk about this with DNB, partly on the basis of Mrs Lodder's question. We must not, of course, allow funds to be affected by trajectories, provided that, if this law could come into force on 1 January 2016, funds can also come into effect as soon as possible after that date. However, the Dutch Bank has assured me that it is in the spirit and more than that. So I have every confidence in that. The Netherlands Bank also sees that some funds are dying to use this vehicle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u161	I think it's a very sensible route to talk to the supervisor about that. It is, of course, also about funds that have to be closed for a year. If you're just in the new year and have to wait another year, it could be too late for a number of funds. Can the Secretary of State keep the Chamber informed of the way in which it is handled? In my view, the Secretary of State has not yet answered my question about the consolidation we want to make with the apf. Is this going to work, or is there going to be a need for other instruments in the future? Can the Secretary of State give us a reflection through the hairs of the eyes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u162	Seen through the hairs of the eyes, this is really an important tool. We see that quite a few funds are eagerly looking forward to it, not only because the water is on their lips, as Mrs Lodder rightly said about some funds, but also because they want to see income effects, because they have an ageing stock or for other reasons. In short, there may be many reasons to grab this vehicle. I think this fund is going to offer real relief. As I have already said in reply to one of the other Members, this is not the only instrument that is at issue. You can see that funds are still merging. You can also see over the years that consolidation has really taken off. The trend is there, and more than that. That is why I find it very pleasurable that we can now offer this instrument both with the world of pension funds and with Parliament in the broad sense of the word. A question on the part of the PVV Group about the acceptance of the whole. I think I've already given that a lot of thought. A question has also been asked by Mr De Graaf about the way in which the Nederlandsche Bank will monitor whether the objectives of the bill are being achieved. We agreed to review the law after five years. In the course of this debate, I have already noted a few elements for that evaluation. We will certainly take that with us. I ended up with Mr Klein. He asked if the investment policy within apps could be different. The answer is yes, because we are not, of course, politically concerned with the investment policy of pension funds. In response to the question on this subject, I agree. That is indeed up to the funds themselves and to the managers of the funds. Mr Klein has asked another question. He said: participants can switch, but how exactly does that happen within the collection circles? This is always about employers; if someone gets a new employer, then of course they are also covered by a different pension scheme. If the new employer's pension scheme is covered by that apf but is in a different circle of collectivity, then there are exactly the same points of attention as when someone goes from fund to fund. The issue of value transfer also plays a role. That in itself is no different than usual. Mr Klein also asked a question about the communication between the stakeholder body and the accountability body in collectivity circles so that they can address boards. The stakeholder bodies or the accountability bodies of a general pension fund shall have tasks and powers in so far as they relate to the collection circle for which the body is established. For the stakeholder body, these are rights of consent and advice, both of which. For the accountability body, these are only advisory rights, because the stakeholders are represented on the board in a joint management.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u163	Thank you for that answer. The point was also: can the organs also get information from each other? Is that public, at least: it doesn't really have to be public. One body of one group of collectivity must be able to obtain information from the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u164	That is, of course, always up to the organs themselves; that is a decision of the bodies themselves. If they want to support each other, they can do so, but once again, that is up to the organs themselves. I come to Mr Van Weyenberg. I have already answered many questions in my response to the amendments. I'll see if there's anything left. No, this was really about the amendment on voluntary schemes that could not go into a separate collection circle. I've gone into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u165	That is true, but perhaps the Secretary of State would like to go into a little more detail about the fact that the amendment does not require resistance, whereas it does. Can she indicate how these two relate to each other? I understand that the Secretary of State is not a fan of Mrs Lodder's and Mrs Vermeij's amendments at all, but it does not contain that demand for resistance. However, this requirement exists for parties starting a general pension fund. Can the Secretary of State still answer that question? That can also be done in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u166	Yes, that is a good plan, because clarity is of course a great thing. I will say mine in the second term. Mr Krol asked whether there was still a chance of contagion between the two. The power separation is very strict. In addition to the administrative ringfencing, there is the so-called legal separation of goods. That is to say, it is legally harsh inside and outside bankruptcy and it is against everyone. There is also supervision of good administrative separation in business operations. Contamination will therefore not occur. What are the possible disadvantages of the apf? Of course, the most important thing is that the apf is used by funds that think it is appropriate. Of course, they always look at all pros and cons. Mr Krol also asked a question about the exit policy of the EPF. What are the risks of exit? The implementation agreement already makes practical arrangements for a possible departure, so that this can actually be done and can be done in an orderly manner. Withdrawals are also taken into account in the assessment of business operations and resistance capacity. Then I come last but not least to Mr Omtzigt. He asked: does this proposal fit in with our vision of the future of our pension system? That question has been asked before. The answer to that is yes, because the apf simply offers pension funds more opportunities in consolidating. As I have already said, the Court receives the main note for the summer recess. Mr Omtzigt also asked why Article 84 applies when a pension fund is transformed. A conversion from a pension fund to an apf corresponds in its characteristics and securities most closely to a collective transfer of value resulting from the liquidation of a pension provider. In the event of a conversion, the contents of a pension agreement will change unchanged to the general pension fund. It is then not possible for the participant to lag behind the existing pension provider as it is being transformed. These characteristics justify the application of Article 84 of the Pension Act. Mr Omtzigt also raised a number of issues concerning VAT, but he himself said he would appreciate it if I asked my colleague Mr Wiebes for an analysis. I'd be happy to guide you through that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u167	I assume that the latter is a commitment and that the Secretary of State for Finance, Mr Wiebes, will return to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u168	You can now put your question to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u169	I shall come back to that last point. I asked the Secretary of State to go a little further into the rights of participation and control that exist at the time a proposal is made to move from one apf to another. What does it mean for the participation rights of the members, active, dormant and retired, in the pension scheme that the winding-up right is chosen and not for ordinary transitional rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u170	That's a choice. There is, of course, a collective transfer of value. The question that arises then is: what article of pension legislation applies to collective value transfer? Then this article is just the most obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u171	That is not quite an answer to my question. It is mainly about transferring one apf to another apf. Then both routes can be done. But what is the difference for participation? Do the participants have all kinds of rights at one time and not at the other time? They usually think it's important to see what the balance of power is. Can you tell me more about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u172	Shall I come back to that in second term? Then I'll be able to peel that off, so I can point out the two routes for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u173	I would like to come back to Mrs Lodders and Mrs Vermeij's amendment. I am asking because I want to hear the Secretary of State's response before the second term. Did the Secretary of State, when she understood that there was an amendment that was supported by a majority in parliament, in addition to the advice of her own apparatus and that of the Secretary of State for Finance, also seek advice from the state attorney? If so, what was that advice and can we get it? If not, why not? Is she still considering doing that before the vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u174	I didn't. I did not recommend the amendment on the basis of the opinions I received internally. I think we've changed that enough now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u175	The answer to my group's question as to whether the Secretary of State can ask the national attorney for advice before the vote is therefore negative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u176	The votes are on Thursday. Let me see if this can be a supplement, because we need to take a look at the time span.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u177	I have two completely different comments. If it can still be voted on next week, those letters can be written quietly, the Secretary of State can see which of the three routes it chooses, and it can be considered whether an urgent opinion from the Council of State can be issued following the amendment. Because that's always possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u178	I see this as a point of order. I understand this bill still has to go to the First Chamber. That is why we still have to vote this week. That's already a megalomaniac procedure because of the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u179	But the Secretary of State just said in her term that she assumed that the oral hearing in the First Chamber would take place after the summer recess and not before.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u180	Otherwise the bill can no longer be dealt with there. Also the First Chamber goes on recess. I can't make it prettier than it is. This is what I'm getting and I'm trying to operate on it. But perhaps the Secretary of State will give us a different interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u181	I fully agree with you, Mr President, in the sense that I would be very pleased if this Chamber could vote on this bill on Thursday. I have already said that I would like to come back to things in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u182	Then we can talk about this later. Your second question, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u183	A number of questions remain open, but I shall confine myself to two questions. I would like information later on what it means for participants and MPs if a pension scheme moves to Belgium. So what are the consent rights? Can you still make a standard transfer of value? The Dutch or Belgian authorities guarantee under the Hogan and Others judgment.? Are people properly informed about this? It would save me a motion if the Secretary of State could promise to report it in the fall. 'Cause there seem to be a lot of funds that want to move. My second question was a technical question in response to the amendment by the Labour Party to the previous legislative amendment on the starting date of retirement pension at the time of pay-off. In other words, turning it around and automatically going into it, perhaps on 1 January, instead of having to apply for it. The funds say that this would lead to much less accidents, much less forced information and fewer people who say that they did not have the letter, and then you get wet again. We saw that. Does the Secretary of State see an opportunity to put it in a letter of amendment if necessary, so that it is better regulated? It should preferably start in January following the year in which someone has reached the AOW age. Then we will no longer have a tax problem. If people don't want it, they can always turn it around, but then it's standard. I'm looking at my colleague Vermeij. I also think she thinks that this is not a strange solution. We ask the Secretary of State to consider whether it can be done by means of a letter of amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u184	I'm gonna go jigsaw on that. Mr Omtzig's first question to come back to the Hogan judgment in the autumn can be answered by 'follow-up'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u185	Thank you for this commitment and that includes all the sub-questions I have asked. I'll see it in the letter in the fall.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u186	This has put an end to the government's first term. I suggest we suspend for a moment. I need to take stock of what we're gonna do when.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u187	The next item is the second part of the debate on the amendment of the Pension Act. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Vermeij of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u188	Mr. Chairman. As my colleague Mr Omtzigt said, the issue of pensions is becoming rather complex. During the debate, however, we succeed in making it easier for us to say euphemistically. I thank the Secretary of State for her answers. I have a few more points on which I would like to ask her a little more clearly. I will not table a motion on this because I hope that the Secretary of State will come up with good answers in her second term. First of all, on the governance of the general pension fund. As the government itself wrote in the detailed note on the report, there are quite a number of possible provisions, especially when it comes to an apf with a joint administration. We are in favour of this in itself, but every group of collectivity that joins it has the right, as it were, to be represented on that board. In the long term, this will not improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the programme. I therefore ask the Secretary of State, and perhaps we should do so earlier than five years in order to take a good look at the development of the administrative models of the various apps that are being set up. They must be effective, efficient and effective, so that we do not create top-heavy governments where a consolidation battle was precisely intended to unite forces. At that point we would like to have the finger on the wrist, initially through DNB, but it will still report to you and through you please to the Chamber. If we could hear two years after that how the governance of these apps is going, what happens there, what models are being chosen, how large the boards are and how workable they are, my group would appreciate that very much. With regard to the right of option of the buy-back of small pensions, i.e. the starting date, the main thing is that we should not turn pension funds into tax planners. They should not be pushed into the role of advising individual participants. They should also not be harassed by individual participants who complain that there has not been good advice on the date on which the buy-back could best have taken place. The Vermeij c.s. amendment That was adopted by the Chamber, in order to avoid it by saying: you are always good at it. The broadening of the right of choice, as currently enshrined in the law, risks the reverse, namely a role of pension funds which is not entirely justified. Then I come to the amendment. The reaction of the Secretary of State does not surprise us, because we knew about the appreciation of the government. Nevertheless, the same government says in very strong terms, also in the detailed note following the report, that consolidation for the compulsory sector pension funds is really an issue and that the research is really important. I listened to the Secretary of State very carefully. She gave the aim of understanding very well, but to assess the risks associated with the amendment differently. I think that we are indeed doing this differently and have sufficient arguments in our hands to say that precisely those collectivity circles remain intact in such a way that this will also remain legal. I think this is a good intermediate form, of course, pending the investigation. I understand that the results will be available in the autumn. So that's gonna be over for a while. This will enable us to create a model in which we can offer mandatory occupational pension funds a solution, which will really be less for them after the introduction of the apf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u189	Mr. Chairman. At the end of the debate, I must say that it has become a special situation. Two coalition parties are tabling an amendment which is not recommended by the government. I think that happens very rarely. That's kind of special. The Secretary of State began to talk about appreciation and taste. It's possible. Then it's not so bad. But later in the debate, the Secretary of State spoke about legal risks and competition aspects. Then it all sounds a little heavier. My question to the Secretary of State is actually very simple. If that amendment is adopted from the debate, can I conclude that it is widely supported? What will the Secretary of State do with the bill? I made a little proposal about which the Secretary of State was not too enthusiastic. Actually, I thought that was kind of rude. That is why I would like to present a ruling to the Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, for example, it may be attractive to transfer accumulated pension capital from an insurer to a pension fund because of interest rates;]] [[noting that the Pension Act makes this transfer impossible;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a proposal to allow the transfer of pension capital from an insurer to an ongoing pension scheme to that pension fund,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ulenbelt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34117-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u190	In the meantime, we also have digital walkways in this Chamber. This proposal has been brought to the attention of the House. Some say: Ulenbelt is right. Others say it's all possible. The Secretary of State said it's gonna take a law change. That is what I am asking for in this proposal. I therefore hope that the sympathy in the Chamber for this proposal can be converted into a proposal. And if it is possible, then the Secretary of State has not yet told us and I would like to hear it in her second term or later in a letter before the votes. Mr Van Weyenberg and I spoke in an interrupting debate on the cost of the pension system. There are concerns about that. We're gonna start something new with those apps, too. To this end, all parties may take the initiative. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Law on the standardisation of top-income organisations in the public and semi-public sectors is subject to accountability and maximum remuneration;]] [[noting that the pension sector has a socially important role to play and that it fits in with a pay policy that is socially acceptable;]] [[calls on the Government to include, as a condition for granting a general pension fund authorisation, the payment of the maximum remuneration laid down in the Top Income Standards Act or the same ceiling by any other measure, and to send a proposal to the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ulenbelt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34117-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u191	Anything can go wrong in organisations that handle a lot of money, especially at the top. I do not need to mention the series of scandals and incidents from the past period here. This is an extremely proactive measure to prevent the creation of rewards in this new sector that we do not consider socially acceptable. So you can't really be against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u192	Yet history will tell us if there were more incidents in the banking sector than in the pension sector. Perhaps the pension sector still has a positive side to it. Who knows? Will Mr Ulenbelt introduce this only for an apf? That's how I read his motion. Doesn't it apply to the rest of the pension field?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u193	That's right. With pension funds, especially in the board, we have no excesses or incidents. They do occur in the implementation organisation. We're gonna start here with something new that anyone can take the initiative. Let's not tie the cat to the bacon and arrange in advance that no crazy things happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u194	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. This draft law on the establishment of a general pension fund seems to me to be an important step towards further consolidation of pension funds. A large number of issues have been raised in the debate. I welcome the Secretary of State's undertaking that before the summer recess, i.e. within three weeks, she will decide on the retirement cut, albeit the temporary retirement cut, so that people can at least shape the purchase of a pension for a period of two years. This seems to me to be extremely important in view of the legislative proposal that the State Secretary himself is working on and the initiative proposal that I am working on to allow for several purchasing moments. People who buy a pension now are screwed. We agree on that. I asked about the international aspects. The Secretary of State has said that the cabinet awaits the regulation in Europe. I also asked whether the Secretary of State was prepared to make clear what should be done to make the apf for international regulations workable. You don't have to do that in the very short term. We do not want to frustrate the bill. My group does find it interesting to have that inventory so that it can look at it again. The Secretary of State also addressed my question about the authorisation of the Nederlandsche Bank. The time for pension funds, insurers and all the other parties who want to move to an apf will be very tight and the need for the funds is high. I ask the Secretary of State once again to include the Chamber in an analysis of how flexible the Dutch Bank can deal with this, especially when we are talking about a closed financial year. In my group's view, this should not lead to funds getting into trouble after all. As far as I am concerned, many questions have been answered. Mrs Vermeij has already spoken about the amendment we have tabled. The Secretary of State would come back to it in second term, so I'd like to wait and see. There is another point on which there is some uncertainty. That is the question about the employer's representative in the stakeholder body. The Secretary of State has said that if an employer no longer exists, there is no obligation for an employer's representation. In the case of a closed fund, it may be good to have an employer's representation, writes the Secretary of State. Is this an obligation or not, assuming that there is no longer a financial relationship between the employer and the closed fund? In the first term, after an interruption, I heard the Secretary of State say that this is an obligation. That leads me to table a very short amendment. That is what I am submitting at the moment, so that the Secretary of State can deal with it in the second term. It states that it must be a decision so that an employer who chooses it does not have to be represented. It is a very small amendment, so I assume that the Secretary of State will be able to accept it. I have already said in the first term that my group is in favour of the legislative proposal. I await the answer in second term, but these are the outstanding questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u195	Let me see if all Members have heard that Mrs Lodder has announced that she is coming up with an amendment. If you have any questions about it, now is the time to ask them. Apparently, there aren't any of these. Then I thank her for her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u196	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. The feeling that I am getting caught up in the discussion is that it is mainly technical. This also makes sense for the general pension fund, but we must keep in mind that we are doing this for the beneficiaries. Those who receive a pension must also be able to count on it. We're trying to do that with a general pension fund. The Secretary of State also answered the question about investment policy in order to achieve that. She has rightly said that this should not be decided by us, but by the pension fund itself. It seems to me appropriate to support that by tabling the next motion on this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the national energy agreement agreed that the energy supply would be 16% renewable by 2023;]] [[Considering that 84% of our energy needs are fossil fuels;]] [[Whereas companies in the fossil fuel sector are often profitable alongside fossil fuels and invest in (innovations of) renewable energy;]] [[Whereas the investment policy of a pension fund, taking into account corporate social responsibility, should be geared towards a sound pension in the interests of its members;]] [[calls on the government not to subject pension funds' investment policies to rules that ensure that they are no longer able to invest in such companies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34117-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u197	We want to reduce the cost of making more money available to pensioners. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the possibility of setting up a general pension fund is also inspired by the achievement of cost benefits;]] [[Whereas the level of these benefits is still undetermined, as general pension funds cannot be operational until 1 January 2016;]] [[calls on the Government to provide the Chamber with an insight into the cost advantage achieved in 2017 for established general pension funds,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34117-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u198	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her reply, in particular for leaving the amendments, one of D66 and one of D66 and one of 50PLUS, to the discretion of the Chamber. That's a lot of hope. I'm also pleased with the announcement of the retirement cut. I have argued in the first term that this is not a miracle solution. The Secretary of State did so himself and so did Mrs Lodders. It is far from a solution for all people. It is a partial solution, which is not without risk. For example, the chance that in two years' time the interest rate will be higher and you will receive a higher pension is no more than that: an opportunity. I am very pleased with what the Secretary of State has done, but I think this comment is important. It is important that people make a proper assessment themselves: does it help me, can I take that risk and do I want to take that risk? It is important that they are very well advised on this. The Secretary of State has stressed this, so I assume that she will exchange this well with the insurers in mutual agreement. I'm left with the question of whether the ultimate solution, the bill for improving the available premium schemes, where you can invest after your retirement date and you don't have to buy that annuity at once, can really not be available faster. I would therefore ask you once again: can the Secretary of State not do everything in his power to examine, in addition to the emergency link we have now established, whether this bill can be sent to the Chamber more quickly? I agree with Mrs Vermeij's questions on governance and governance models. For the sake of clarity, I will not repeat it. There are two points left. The first is Mr Ulenbelt's proposal and the question of whether or not what he wants to achieve can or cannot be achieved. The Secretary of State will return to that. I ask her to deal with Article 81 (1) (b) of the Pension Act. Doesn't that article already make it possible to shop this way with the bag of money you have at the end of the insertion phase, if you have to buy an annuity? Doesn't that article already allow you to put that money in a pension fund where you've ever been a participant or are still a participant? I would like to get a response from the Secretary of State to this particular article. The second point is the amendment by the PvdA and the VVD. I've asked the Secretary of State if she's willing to let the state's attorney look into this. I understand that we really need to vote on this bill on Thursday. The Secretary of State would like to come back to this. In her second term, can the Secretary of State still reflect on the advice of the national attorney from 2007? To be precise, these are points 75 and 76 of Pels Rijcken's report. It discusses a scenario in which, in addition to the domain definition, the requirement of a single financial entity would be dropped. That wasn't the case at the time. The national attorney then argued that, although such a risk cannot be excluded from the obligation, he considered that it was unlikely. He added explicitly: "The ban on ringfencen does not necessarily contribute to this financial balance." I cannot entirely judge whether this is an exact comparable case, but I think it would be appropriate for the Secretary of State to address this. Finally. I understand that it is up to the Cabinet, after taking the amendments, to assess what it is doing with the legislative proposal. However, we now have a rather special situation: there is an amendment which, if the proposers insist on submitting it, I have understood them to be able to count on a majority in this House; that majority is then certain. I would like to be made more clear by the Secretary of State on the consequences it would have for the adoption of this amendment. My group would appreciate that. I would also find it extremely disappointing if the whole bill were to go into the trash. At the very least, that is what I want to take into account in our voting behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u199	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the first-term questions. Let me stress once again that 50PLUS is convinced of the many benefits of the new figure of the general pension fund. However, I have not yet received a response to my suggestion for a central stakeholder accountability body that can signal to the board of the general pension fund. I also miss a response from the Secretary of State on the possible duplication of the working capital requirement. The same applies to my suggestion for a legal review of the law, for example one year after its introduction. On the 50PLUS side, I would like to support Mr Ulenbelt's idea of investing, but through the pension fund. This idea should not just be put aside, as the Secretary of State does, so keep the cut but don't stop thinking anymore. Today we have a slightly better idea of the possible disadvantages, hooks and eyes of the new figure. We see that the Secretary of State follows our ideas and the views of the Chamber on a number of points. We are in favour of the amendments tabled, but we are very interested in the further appreciation of the Lodders/Vermeij amendment. On one point, we are not yet fully convinced and we would like to urge the Secretary of State, with three motions for resolutions, to make this bill even stronger and, where possible, more transparent. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the general pension fund introduces a completely new, untested form of pension fund;]] [[Whereas it is essential to monitor the functioning of the law properly and, where necessary, to adapt it in good time;]] [[calls on the government to include in the law an evaluation exercise, for example one year after the entry into force of the law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, like many small enterprise pension funds, small (re) compulsory occupational pension funds have concerns about their future prospects, continuity, administrative and administrative burdens, cost control and efficient implementation;]] [[Whereas a general pension fund will be accessible to occupational pension funds but not to small (re) compulsory occupational pension funds, so that they will not be able to benefit from the scale, efficiency and cost benefits that the general pension fund can offer;]] [[Whereas, although compulsory occupational pension funds may merge, differences in coverage rates may constitute a major obstacle;]] [[calls on the Government, as soon as possible, to open up a general pension fund as well as to small (re) compulsory occupational pension funds,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas accountability and stakeholder bodies within a general pension fund are exclusively involved in decisions of the respective collectivity circles within the general pension fund;]] [[Whereas it may be desirable, for reasons of participation and administrative capacity, to involve accountability and stakeholder bodies in decisions taken by the management of a general pension fund in respect of the general pension fund as a whole;]] [[calls on the Government to allow the establishment of a "central stakeholder and accountability body" as a point of contact for the administration of a general pension fund,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34117-23]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol and Mr Ulenbelt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34117-24]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34117-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u200	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for a number of first-term responses. However, I would have liked to have seen a day between the examination of this bill. That is because a number of answers are not yet clear. I am pleased that we have received the main note for the recess, but it would have been better if we had had it by now. To the Vermeij/Lodders amendment, which will be the pièce de résistance, I hope to hear clearly in a moment what the government thinks of it, what the consequences are of its adoption or rejection of the amendment and how we can understand what such a rather radical amendment means. The colleagues just offered an alternative: Put the bpf with an apf and make sure you get there. The Secretary of State is going to study that, but this is not the most beautiful variant I have seen in the legislative process. I was also not satisfied with the answer to the Van Weyenberg amendment. The Secretary of State said, "If they're joined together and they have to break up, they're gonna have to take care of how that happens." The whole idea of a law is that it regulates how it does. I would ask the Secretary of State to explain again what should happen if there are no contractual agreements. That's what's gonna happen again. Also at the retirement cut we just went into the trap. There has been no general consultation, but now the Secretary of State says she is going to do it very quickly, before the summer. However, we cannot see a concept. We'll see what it's gonna be, but if it doesn't work out, all kinds of people get hurt. That's not a proper way of treating the law. It could have been otherwise. I look to my fellow Members for the cancellation of general consultations and for the Secretary of State to postpone for a very long time the answer to a question which has been floating over the market for a very long time. When will the bill, not the CDC bill but the BPR bill, come to the Chamber so that we can talk about it fundamentally? I had asked if there were any room for room for manoeuvre in terms of costs, but that does not apply to Mr Ulenbelt. I know that Mr Ulenbelt is very interested in the maximum salary of pension fund managers. Perhaps there are cases where that salary is on the high side but the really big cuts in the cash are done by investors and on other points. Let's say someone's setting up an apf and there's going to be some kind of forced shopping. You throw everyone in your own investment fund and you charge a lot of charges. Well, technically, the foundation doesn't make a profit. I believe that, but if you have to put all that money in your home funds, I know where the profits end up. My guess is that this will be the business model of a number of insurers and that they will set it up. What right do you have as a participant if excessive costs are charged? The question is also when you can or can't resign. There was no beginning of an answer to that. I will not mention the legal form, but an association would have been desirable. We'll take care of that some other time. I don't know how retirement is arranged. I have just mentioned a conflict, for example, too high investment costs. You quit, but who does and what happens? That's essential to the api, but it's not settled. I await with interest the answer of the Secretary of State for Finance on the VAT questions, just as I expect a response not only to the Hogan judgment but also to what happens when you move the pension scheme to Belgium. I imagine you won't be able to pay off small pensions within 24 hours, but I'm asking the Secretary of State to think about it. The default option would be: Don't pay off for the AOW age. That would probably save us a lot of performance. I would ask the Secretary of State to consider how this can be dealt with as quickly as possible. It's rare, but I didn't do two things. At the end of my second term, I did not give a final weighing of the bill. That's because there's too many things open. That is why I have not tabled my stack of motions but left them on my table. I just want answers first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u201	Thank you. This brings to an end the second term of the Chamber. The Secretary of State needs a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u202	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Members of the Chamber and begin my second term, as I promised, by returning to the amendment tabled by Mrs Lodders and Mrs Vermeij. With the help of the spokesmen in the Chamber, I came to the next direction of solution. Of course, we found once again that there is a difference in the appreciation of the legal risks associated with this amendment. At the moment, it cannot be said with certainty exactly how great these risks are. I see that the Chamber cannot do that, and neither can I from the cabinet. It has once again proved that lawyers may differ. I share Mr Omtzig's view that we need to be able to see the consequences in order to reach a good judgment. That is why I would like to propose that we ask the Council of State for an opinion on this amendment. That's the royal route. The state's attorney doesn't need to be called in. The authors will probably say that this is taking a long time. I have been asked what the cabinet will do if the amendment is adopted. I would nevertheless like to ask the Council of State for an opinion. I hope that the Council of State will be able to give a ruling on this matter before the plenary session in the First Chamber. We can then properly assess whether the risks are such that we can or cannot allow this part to enter into force. It may be clear that I will advise the Chamber not to allow the amendment to enter into force if the risks are really too great. I will inform the Chamber as soon as the opinion of the Council of State is available. That is how I would like to deal with an amendment that has been adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u203	That is a nice introduction: a choice amendment, whereby the government can decide afterwards whether it enters or not. That is not entirely the constitutional way to deal with amendments. "But still," I hear the author say. Can the Secretary of State indicate more clearly what objections it will raise and what objections it will not address? Can she state clearly that she has the letter here at least one and a half weeks before the plenary session in the First Chamber, with reasons? In this way, this Chamber can still form an opinion on it. Let me put it this way: the balancing framework was not quite clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u204	I did not say for nothing that, as soon as the Council of State has delivered an opinion on this point, I will send it to the Chambers as soon as possible, with an 'S' saying, on the basis of the opinion of the Council of State, the Cabinet position. Once again, it is up to both Chambers to see what they will do with that position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u205	The other part of the question was whether you could indicate how to set up your balancing framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u206	We have, of course, debated this. I must then weigh the opinion of the Council of State. In doing so, the phenomenon of compulsoryation will always be a very important part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u207	It is therefore a mandatory check and not a feasibility check. That was the second part. However, tomorrow we will receive a letter on how the feasibility is to be achieved. Apart from the novum that the government can decide whether an amendment can be accepted, it is now about the Chambers, and from now on the First Chamber also has a kind of right of choice between legislative proposal a and legislative proposal b. They will appreciate that on the other side, but this is a very new and inventive route under state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u208	Yeah, but honor who's due. In his initial contribution, Mr Omtzigt stated that the government would be free to consider exactly what part of the law should come into force. So that's a nice hand-picking over and over again. I'm taking both chambers seriously at this point. Of course, the First Chamber should also have a good understanding of the appreciation of the cabinet of an opinion from the Council of State. And then there are the points on the i. On Thursday we see what the Chamber is doing with the amendment. In the debate we discussed the various parts sufficiently. The letter I have promised and which will include a few points is coming up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u209	I think it's a very special route that I don't like. Suppose the government's appreciation of the Council of State's opinion is that it does not want the amendment to be accepted, while the appreciation of this Chamber is that it could be. Then the proposers are forced to submit an initiative law. It was their intention to do it now, because it had to be quick. Then it is much more logical that the initiative should remain with the government and that it should make a proposal to the House of Representatives to do it differently, given the opinion of the Council of State? I think that's much more purer under state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u210	I believe that we are genuinely trying to achieve a good result. In the first term, I have already said that the contents of the amendment are also sympathetically addressed by the cabinet. Edoch, the appreciation of the legal consequences is different. I suggest the Chamber do what the Chamber thinks is right on Thursday. Then the route I just outlined can be followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u211	I understand the search for a creative way out, but I have seen earlier by an initiative law that you can then have debates on the extent to which passed laws or articles of law enter into force. I am thinking of the Pension Fund Boards Act and the Koşer Kaya/Blok Initiative Act. I don't think that's the royal route. Isn't the royal route that this law, including the amendment that may be adopted, goes to the Senate and that, when it comes to the conclusion that it finds that it is really irresponsible, the cabinet submits a novelle to this Chamber? This is normally the case in traffic between First and Second Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u212	That's indeed state law the... how do you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u213	Most obvious route.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u214	Most obvious route. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. But Mr Van Weyenberg will not fail to point out to me that we also need to look carefully at whether this will put pressure on the date of introduction. Once again, I would like the House's agreement to take a closer look at the route. After the House has done something with the amendment in the sense of accepting or rejecting it, we can jointly look at how we proceed in order. Once again, we do not disagree on the substance of the amendment as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u215	As far as the Acts are concerned, I would like to say that I am waiting for this, but my group's vote on the amendment does not mean that we are already in favour of this route. We have discussed with the cabinet earlier whether or not to go on shortcuts. We're not usually that much of a fan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u216	I would like to respond to that. I too am very confused with shortcuts. I am in the process of realizing the right balance with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u217	I find the solution that is now being chosen very elegant, because it is not a shortcut.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u218	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u219	The Secretary of State chooses the way through the Council of State. In an earlier debate we talked about a shortcut. So that means that the Secretary of State does not allow the same investigation to be carried out. The Secretary of State therefore does not build up an investigation on top of the opinion of the Council of State, but concentrates on the opinion itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u220	No, I think it is very worthwhile to refer to the study that has already been carried out on the occupational pension funds with the compulsoryation. But an amendment is, of course, a very good one and we can submit it to the Council of State. I would like to walk both routes and tell the Chamber after meeting whether or not we can allow the amendment, which in itself is my preferred content, to enter into force on 1 January 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u221	Fine, so there are now two parallel routes. I only hope that the parallel routes will run smoothly in time, so that it does not conflict with the treatment in the Upper Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u222	I am doing my utmost towards the Council of State and also towards the researchers to ensure that this is done as in synchronised as possible. I walk by the spokesmen and their contributions in the second term. Mrs Vermeij has asked me about governance and the terms of reference. After two years, am I prepared to show the state of play of the joint administration and its ability to act and act? The answer to that is yes. Mrs Vermeij, together with Mr Omtzigt, has once again stressed the right of option around the date of retirement. I'd like to study that in more detail. I know that there are also parliamentary questions from Mr Omtzigt about small pensions. If I can do anything, I'd like to take it with me in the answer to those parliamentary questions. Then I come to the two motions that Mr Ulenbelt has put before us. One asks me to come up with a proposal to allow the transfer of pension capital from an insurer to the current pension scheme to pension funds. What Mr Ulenbelt heard singing around is indeed a point. I come back to the earlier statement that a change of law is necessary in order to make this proposal possible. On the basis of Article 81 (1) (b) of the Pension Act, the insurer is obliged, at the request of a participant, to transfer directly to another pension administrator the value of his pension claims arising from a contribution agreement providing for the payment of a capital to be used at the pension date, at the date of the pension, if the recipient pension administrator is a pension fund and the participant already has pension claims against that pension fund. The question then is what Mr Ulenbelt's proposal adds to this motion. So I would say that the motion is superfluous and that the phenomenon of Twitter was it Twitter? In this respect, it may have proved to be an excellent instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u223	In this case, Twitter thus defeats the entire civil service and the Secretary of State welcomes it. But I don't think it's right. It says "on the pension date." On the contrary, my amendment aims to allow you to do so before the retirement date. The Secretary of State initially said that a change to the law is necessary, and I understood that. Here's what I'm gonna do in between. Would the Secretary of State care to analyse the situation carefully, legally? Switching from 71 to 81 goes a little too fast for me. Can the Secretary of State come back to this in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u224	Yeah, I think that's nice. So that's what I'm gonna do. We now know exactly what Article 81 (1) (b) is about and that this is possible at the date of retirement, but I think that I should also make it clear to Mr Ulenbelt how otherwise it could or should not be possible. I think that this is really a point of attention and that there would be a need for a change of law, I say carefully, Twitter in mind, but I will inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u225	Thanks for that. That means I'll hold my motion pending that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u226	That's good!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u227	At the request of Mr Ulenbelt, I propose his motion (34117, No. 18). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u228	Let me return to the creative solution proposed by the Secretary of State. I have a question for the Secretary of State and for you, Chairman. State Secretary, Article IV of the bill states indeed that the date of entry into force of articles is determined by Royal Decree. Does it ever occur that it is decided not to allow the whole article to enter into force? That seems to me to be something different than the moment; then you pretend that the article is not there. That seems to me to be fundamentally different. Mr President, I would like to ask you whether you can, from your responsibility, look into contact with the Senate as to whether the proposed construction can be done, how it fits our working methods and whether there are precedents, so that I know how to appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u229	So you mean the construction by interim advice on the amendment, but also the possibility that the Secretary of State may not allow an article of law adopted in the Lower House to enter into force?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u230	Exactly, especially in relation to the fact that the royal route is that you submit a novelle if you want to change something to a law that lies in the Senate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u231	I think that Mr Van Weyenberg himself gave the answer by asking you to keep this under review. Article IV of the General Pension Fund Act does indeed offer the possibility not to bring parts of the law into force or not yet enter into force, but that is the formal answer. In my view, we are all in a constructive position, because we all want the amendment to come into force, if it is possible to do so on 1 January 2016, so that it is properly aligned with the entire legislative proposal. I have already promised the Chamber that I will tell it as soon as possible after the Council of State has advised it whether this can be done on the basis of that opinion or not. Once again, the intention is that the amendment should be welcomed. It's about the legal risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u232	Sure, and I'm interested in the purity of the state. I understand what the Secretary of State is doing and why she is doing it, but I do not want us to introduce a new parliamentary procedure here one evening at 10.40 p.m. That is why, with thanks for the answer of the Secretary of State, I maintain my procedural constitutional question to the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u233	Clear. Mr Ulenbelt's second motion concerns the Top Income Standards Act. I would advise against this motion, because there has already been a lot of changes in previous debates, and there is already legislation on remuneration. I do not want to deviate from rules in other financial institutions and therefore advise against this motion. Mr Klein's motion calls on the government not to regulate the investment policy of pension funds. I do not recommend this motion, because investment policy is to the funds and not to politics or to a cabinet. Then I come to another motion by Mr Klein, the motion in part No. 22. In that motion, the government is asked to give the Chamber an insight into the cost advantage achieved in 2017. I would advise against this motion, because the cost advantage cannot be quantified. After two years, I'd like to give some sort of mid-term report on the developments in the apf. Both Mr Klein and Mrs Vermeij and Mr Krol asked for evaluation elements and timetables. I propose to the Chamber that after two years, it be given an interim report on parts. We do not do that very minutely, because of course we cannot make this clear and also on other parts that have been cut here. So I think that's a good idea, but formally I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u234	I'm gonna think about this answer. That's obvious. I'll come back to the first motion. I believe that we agree on this motion, because I do not want to get a policy from the cabinet. That's what I don't want. So I think that makes a lot of sense. So it is support for what the Secretary of State wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u235	It's just how you point this motion. The cabinet does not need this motion at all, because it is superfluous. The state of play is that we do not want to regulate the investment policy of pension funds. I therefore advise against this motion. I'll come to the motion in part No. 23 by Mr Krol. In that motion, the government is asked to include that moment of evaluation, for example after one year. I have already said that there will be no formal evaluation, but an interim report. As far as I'm concerned, that's after two years. I must formally discourage this motion, because it mentions that one year and because it really calls for a formal evaluation. In the motion in part No. 24 by Mr Krol and Mr Ulenbelt, the government is invited to open an apf as soon as possible to the small sector pension funds made compulsory. That's what the whole discussion has been about. I told you, we're all doing that investigation right now. The results of this study and our appreciation of it, I am happy to send to the Chamber in the autumn. This motion is unnecessary. I'm gonna dissuade her. In the motion in part No. 25 by Mr Krol, the government is invited to enable the establishment of a central stakeholder and accountability body. I advise against this motion, because there are sufficient possibilities within the law to make flexible agreements on this point. In my opinion, this does not need to be added. That's how I dealt with the motions. Let me look at the further questions that are still open.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u236	Before we do that, I would just like to point out to the Acts that the motion in part No. Mr Ulenbelt has been detained.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u237	There is also an amendment by Mrs Lodders. That is the amendment to item No. 14. I leave the opinion on that amendment to the Chamber, because it is simply good not to enter unnecessary representations. So I can get out of here with this. I think I have commented on all the motions and amendments. Then I come to Mrs Lodder's question about the apf as an international regulation. She asked me to make an inventory of that. I will. As far as authorisation is concerned, time is indeed tight. I will inform the House in the autumn of how DNB intends to deal with pension funds that could be affected by issues of attention around closed financial years. I'd like to inform the Chamber about that. Mr Klein said that the discussion was technical. It's about the contestants and that's how it is. Mr Van Weyenberg underlined once again that the whole Chamber and I are doing this with him, that the retirement cut is a partial solution and that there are real risks involved. Good combination is very important. He asked me again if I could land the CDC scheme faster in this Chamber. We intend to submit this arrangement to the Internet consultation in the summer. Then she becomes public, so everyone can see how she is entrusted to the paper. I have promised the Chamber that I will make sure that the CDC arrangements for Christmas are in the Chamber. I don't think that's gonna be much sooner. Mr Krol asked a question about resistance. Isn't that double-conscious about the buffers that are already being held because of the ftk? The FK relates only to pension risks, so it is not a double counting. Resistance covers risks that exceed the collection circle. That really is a different form and not a double. Mr Omtzigt considers the exit conditions to be very important. On the basis of the legislative proposal, those exit conditions should be properly regulated in the implementation agreement. Mr Omtzigt also asked a question about road leaking costs around "forced shopping." These were his words "and insurers." It is precisely in these implementing agreements that the costs are well defined and that they are precisely set out to which they apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u238	In fact, the ministerial arrangement we received states that it must be broken down. But it did not include what would happen if it were incorrect, or incorrect amounts, or exactly how these costs should be calculated. We have seen that a number of insurers in the Wabeke standard itself say that the investment costs do not have to be included. How do we ensure that all costs are included? And if more costs are charged, how do we ensure that the fund managers are liable for this? 'Cause otherwise it's some kind of advice paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u239	Of course, when it comes to the implementation agreement, it is also important that the stakeholder bodies look closely at it. They do, I know from the practice. This is a very important part. 'Cause you're headed for an apf because you want to control costs. That's one of the leitmotives of the apf. Stakeholders and accountability bodies will look into this with caution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u240	Ideally, with good drivers, it will be looked at carefully. My question is what happens if that agreement is not complied with. Is there a claim on the drivers because too much has been charged? Or, as we have seen before in the financial sector, will it still be paid out of the pension fund if the costs are higher than those laid down in the agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u241	We also discussed governance in the Chamber. I really assume that the boards of pension funds and all the other bodies that play a role in this are not strengthened in quality. I trust that when the implementing agreements are put on paper, the stakeholders will be involved. Mr Omtzigt asks a question like that. I do not want to anticipate this, because I believe that these implementing agreements should bear this in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u242	The State Secretary talks about stakeholders, but precisely by choosing to take Article 84, the liquidation agreement, those stakeholders cannot block anything. She assumes they'll be taken, but if you put it somewhere fast, it just happens. Then it's done and no one can complain at the end. We have seen this in a number of cases in directly insured schemes where it is difficult to get away. I do not see any divisions in this bill that will ensure that there is a protection of the participant if something bad happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u243	Of course, we also have other legal proceedings for that. I trust that the implementing agreements will be looked at with a firm eye. I came to the end of my second term with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u244	The Secretary of State would come back in the second term to my question on resistance, which is a requirement for the app but not as a fund for the construction of the amendment tabled by Mr Lodders and Mr Vermeij, which does not contain that requirement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u245	Yeah, that's true. I think I'll take that in the letter I'm sending tomorrow. I promised you that, so I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-32.u246	The votes on the motions and amendments tabled and the legislative proposal will take place next Thursday. We look forward to the letter the Secretary of State sends to the Chamber tomorrow.
