ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Security and Justice to this Chamber. I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. I thank the members of your Chamber for their contribution in the first term. The Secretary of State and I have listened with interest to the contributions of your members. Of course, we are going to deal with a large number of the comments and questions. I say a large number because, as some of you may have discovered today, we have answered 250 parliamentary questions from the House of Representatives. In this context, it did not seem impossible for us to answer 90 questions in writing from the First Chamber. If it's all right, they're already in the bosom of your room. I hope they can be forwarded to your members at some point. Faster than that, we could not deliver the answer. If it is correct, you have received written answers to all the questions put by the individual Members of your Chamber. I would also like to address a number of issues and the questions raised by your Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u3	I understand from the clerk that those questions have indeed been received. They are now being transmitted digitally to the members.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u4	Thank you for that. I appreciate that very much. Of course, I come to a number of key issues, including the finance of the Ministry of Security and Justice, the state of the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the justice system. Then I will deal with the legislation and a number of other issues that have been mentioned. Then, of course, it is up to the Secretary of State to answer the questions put to him, Mr President. Mr Van Dijk, as well as many other Members of your Chamber, have asked for the view of the Minister of Security and Justice on the rule of law. I am happy to answer that question, especially in this house, where democracy and the rule of law have been a central theme for at least two centuries. After all, you assess every law on quality, feasibility and consistency with other laws and rules. This means that your work, President, the work of your Chamber, has consequences not only for the rule of law as an institution, but also for the access to the law and the legal space within which everyone moves in the Netherlands. The core of this rule of law, the late Senator Witteveen wrote, is not reflected in a few slogans. It is an institution that constantly seeks a balance between freedom of the law and freedom through the law. It's an institution that gives room for interference, but never for domination. And it's an institution, so Witteveen wrote, that has to change constantly in order to maintain its value. We all contribute to this change and to that search for balance, each from our own responsibility. At my ministry, we are working very hard to improve, digitize and simplify processes in the rule of law. For example, we are working on the biggest revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure in nearly 100 years. It is so great that, at a meeting a week and a half ago, I had to apologize to my colleague, the Minister of Justice of France, who was called the Guard des Sceaux, the super-seal keeper, a post which I myself, although I am sorry to say is not on my business card, for the fact that the last remnants of the code pénal of 1814 will finally disappear from our code of conduct. She replied very charmingly: then we are interested, because we still have quite a lot of the code pénal from 1814 in our code of conduct, so if you have any good ideas about it, I would like to hear it. That is the one thing that is going on: the biggest revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure in nearly a hundred years. The other thing we do is improve the position of the judge by giving the judge more direction in cases. We make it easier for people to report to the police and we make sure that digital working throughout that chain, throughout that rule of law, is no longer an exception, but a standard. Despite your paper tradition of centuries, Chairman, your Chamber introduced me to digitalization. I realize more than ever, especially when I'm standing here, that paper is really passé, despite the fact that I speak of paper myself. We can, and above all I can, I say very modestly, learn a lot from the First Chamber and the digitisation of the First Chamber. These and many other reforms must ensure that our rule of law remains in line with the society it organises, and that it fits the people in that society and with people who stand every day for its protection, conservation and improvement. Such a modern rule of law is the key to a successful society, a society in which we all like to live. People are willing to take economic risks and to contribute to our prosperity if the rules of the game are clear to that society. People can then hold each other to obligations because they know their rights. Whether people are born or die, marry, divorce, apply for a mortgage or enter into a contract of employment, they always do so within the order structure of the law for which my ministry is responsible. It is an honor to be responsible for such a ministry, which has such an important role in our society. In conclusion, I would like to say something about the relationship between our freedom and security. The unprecedented violence in the streets of Paris, the closed shops and the empty schools in Brussels, and the increased security measures throughout Europe remind us that our security is under pressure. Some will say that stopping this threat of terror outweighs the integrity of the rule of law, that preventing an attack is more important than the rights and freedoms of the individual, and that the security of the State is a sine qua non for the existence of a rule of law. As a liberal, I am convinced that people must be protected from terror, but also from arbitrariness and too much power from the state. That is why I am convinced that we need a more nuanced approach. Of course, I see terror as a direct attack on our freedom, on our way of life and on the stability of our society. I also believe that important principles such as the rule of law, human rights and individual freedoms are best protected when our national security stands as a home. A warning fits here. A victory over terror can never be a victory if human rights are sacrificed. It is not a victory if our rule of law is violated. It cannot be a victory if our fighting democracy is no longer a democracy, but only combatable. The rule of law that I am looking for is therefore a rule of law in balance. There's no arrest and detention here for no reason. This is where suspects are defended and they get a fair trial. Here, cases are judged by independent judges. This is where victims, relatives and suspects are heard. There are strict rules here for the police and the justice system. In the beginning, I said that our rule of law is constantly changing. My department's changing, too. I can say that both rooms are up there. We put a lot of energy and time into a much better internal alignment, more coordination and higher political sensitivity, everywhere in our organisation. Following the Hoekstra report and the Oosting report, which I will debate tomorrow with the House of Representatives, and the events surrounding the photograph of Volkert van der G., we have determined the need for this. At my request, it is therefore priority number one in my department. I would, of course, like to keep both chambers informed of the progress made. In February 2016, the Chambers will be able to see the first report on the process of change within my department. Let me take this opportunity to thank the Chamber. Today and in previous debates I have had with the First Chamber over the last nine months, I have a warm interest in the Department of Security of Justice. Sometimes there is a critical look, very sometimes a hot breath, but always in a constructive sense. I really appreciate that. I think that Mr Ruers of the SP Group has summarised this very nicely by recapitulating some of the motions that have been adopted in this Chamber in recent years with regard to the Ministry of Security and Justice. I thank him for that. Following the motion of the member Scholten van D66 and Senator Franken of the CDA, the professor who gave my very first lecture introduction to law when I went to study in Leiden in 1988, the Wolfsen Committee was set up. That committee has put forward extremely useful proposals for a future-proof system of legal aid. The proposals will be drawn up in 2016. In the written answer we have dealt with the questions in detail, but I will come back to them in a general way. The Brinkman motion underlined the need for a closer look at the financial risks and the possible solutions to them in my budget. Thanks to this motion, 310 million euros was added to my budget. The De Graaf motion on the position of the National Police is very useful for the social debate and can be a foundation for the electoral programmes for a year and a half and for a possible new government agreement. In addition, the Secretary of State and I have listened very carefully to the concerns arising from this warm interest, that critical look and on a number of points from the hot air that was blown in our direction from the seat of the speaker. The police, justice, legal aid, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the NFI, which one of the members spoke about, are elements that many members have placed in the context of two important aspects, namely the threat of terrorism and the refugee problem, which the Secretary of State will be discussing shortly. I hope and count on a very nice debate this afternoon and this evening on the budget for security and justice. I am careful to see that a large number of political groups have a positive basis for this budget. I hope that I can confirm that positive basic attitude together with the Secretary of State in response to the questions put by Members. I regret that the PVV Group has indicated that it cannot support the budget, and that it has done so before the debate takes place. As Minister and Secretary of State, you are not in a position to try to convince the PVV Group of the accuracy and importance of the budget. Let us be honest: a vote against by the PVV group also means that no extra 250 million or 310 million can be added to the budget if a majority votes against the budget. I would find that reason enough, also for the PVV Group, to think again about whether or not, given the importance of the 250 million or 310 million in total, she would like to vote in favour of this budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u5	In the House of Representatives, it has already been explained why the PVV Group voted against the budget there. However, we always like to be surprised and, of course, await the debate. In that respect, my statement may have been premature. On the other hand, it has been well explained why we did not consider the EUR 250 million adequate. In my speech, too, I said that we did not think the allocation was correct enough, so that safety could not be guaranteed enough. I await the answers and the debate. We shall vote with all our consciences.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u6	I have a very clear taste of a small hand-out from the PVV Group. If I show miracles here in a moment with the Secretary of State and the level of entertainment is perhaps so high that the members of the PVV Group will be standing alone in the votes because that is the use in the First Chamber, I hope that will have that effect. I do understand that I look up to a rather high wall that I have to try to clean up. We have received very clear signals from an expectation that lives with a large number of parties in this Chamber. If it would appear that, with all those routes on which I am about to go into substance, it would be necessary in the spring to discuss with the Cabinet, on top of the 138 million reserve provided for in my budget, whether there should be more because there are still problems, then the Secretary of State and I will be fighting on this point. That is also what I indicated in the House of Representatives, and that is what I am saying here. That's all we can do. I cannot make commitments on behalf of the Minister of Finance or on behalf of the Cabinet about any movements in the Spring Note. Of course, that's not how the system works. We will strive to do our utmost to solve any problems on the basis of facts. That is a commitment which Mr Pechtold has given me very specifically.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u7	When Mr. Pechtold came up, I thought I'd walk back, but I was already on my way, so you have to keep going. I like the word combatable. Let me start with that. That is precisely the signal that virtually all the groups here have in one way or another, in different words, perhaps given one with a slightly hotter breath than the other. However, I must ask the Minister something; it also matters a lot of time. He has seen what has been brought forward by various political groups, particularly in the areas of the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and justice. These are the areas where the problems lie. Do the Minister and the Secretary of State, but above all the Minister, because of his position in the Council of Ministers, have any idea what they should be focusing on more precisely? The fact that the Minister is combatable is a good thing, but we also need to have the feeling that in these three areas in the criminal justice chain this will lead to a fruitful outcome, and I would like to say it with caution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u8	I cannot agree to that last point, as I say to Mr Engels, because I am not going to do so on my own at the end of the day. I can assure you that I will look very closely at exactly what is needed in relation to the Public Prosecutor's Office, the National Police and the judiciary. I will also go into the substance of the question as to why this is not quite clear at the moment, but it means that we will be able to show that we are fighting and that the Chamber can always appeal to us on this point. I feel challenged by Mr Van Dijk to respond to his contribution. He had one question and he made an interesting argument in which he called on the Minister, in this case specifically the Minister of Honor, on a number of points, one of the other functions besides those of Grand Seal keeper which I am allowed to perform. It was a fine argument, that he introduced on the basis of the most famous work of the Spanish philosopher, I don't know how to pronounce the name "Joseph José Ortega y Gasset" from 1933, which was recently translated under the title The uprising of the masses, to which Mr Van Dijk also referred. Mr President, I hope you will forgive me, as well as Mr Van Dijk, for not reading this translation. The previous translation from 1933 under the famous name The uprising of hurdles is unfortunately still on my bedside table. So I cannot say with certainty whether I am attracted to this author's well-known cultural pessimism. With this introduction, Mr Van Dijk raised the question of the assumptions of our democratic rule of law. He asked what gives her content now. As Mr Van Dijk reminded us of previous considerations in this House on this subject, I agree to quote what Mr Holdijk, who commemorated the Chamber last week, pointed out during the debate on the rule of law today in March last year. Mr Holdijk first noted that it was not entirely clear what to mean by the rule of law, but he mentioned a number of important elements which give substance to that rule of law. "The constitutional constitutional practice of the Western democratic rule of law has institutionalized characteristic ways of relativising the power of the state. The instrument of periodic elections, the division of power between a number of positions involving, in particular, the independent and non-party political judiciary and the legal profession, the obligation to provide sufficient justification for judgments and decisions on penalties of abuse due to absence of form and the rules on conscientious objectors in different areas." He also pointed out that in a representative democracy, the parliamentary majority had to decide, but that this majority had to respect major minority objections. The purpose of a democracy, Holdijk said, can not be to create a unity, but to organize a society of difference. The pluralism of that society, as Mr Holdijk shows it, is also an important starting point for me as a liberal. I hope Mr Van Dijk will not be disappointed if, like Mrs Merkel, I do not call on the people to go to church more often. Religious freedom, but also the separation of church and state, are, in my view, key values of our democratic rule of law. As a ruler responsible for relations with church societies, I am responsible for relations with all religious movements. It would therefore not be appropriate for me to express a preference in that regard. There are many ways of working on the values underlying our democratic rule of law. For some, those values are formed by God's commandments. Mr Van Dijk also spoke about this. Moreover, I do not think that all of these have just been abolished, as the story of the gypsy wants us to believe. For some of the Ten Commandments I refer to as "Thou shalt not kill".. are even more or less literally found in the Code of Criminal Law. I can only say that I am very pleased about this and will continue to do so. As far as I am concerned, that will never change. Last year, Mr Holdijk also mentioned fundamental rights as an essential element of the rule of law. You're damn right I didn't. Fundamental rights, as enshrined in the Constitution and in international human rights treaties, are important and normative principles on which our democratic rule of law rests and, as far as I am concerned, remains in place. The last point I can add to that is that I can say in the direction of Mr Van Dijk that, in the context of my position as Minister for the Service, I, in consultation with the CIO, intend to hold the Christian consultations with which I regularly speak, with a view to making a cycle of visits to church communities. That is also what I agreed with the contact body Muslims and Government and with the Jewish Consultation. The first visit I will make is to the church of my secretary, the Reformed Church in Gouda. I cannot make it any better for Mr Van Dijk, but I hope he will not cause me any trouble that, as Minister of Honor, I will also visit a whole series of other families and churches afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u9	I will certainly not continue this academic discussion in the event of interruption, but I think the commitment is so kind and eloquently expressed that I would like to thank the Minister for that. He wants to have that conversation with the churches. At least it remains striking that in Germany, where people deal with the separation between church and state in the same way, such a call to account for your Christian tradition is not an issue there. In that sense, are we not going to be a little too cramped to deal with the separation of church and state?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u10	Perhaps it is still good to mention the difference between Germany and the Netherlands. If I'm right, in Germany, the Protestant preachers are on the government payroll. In that context, if you would like to point out Mrs Merkel's appeal, you could say that a better use of taxpayers' money should be made. That's an explanation I can't give her, but I might be able to understand. Fortunately, in the Netherlands, we have opted for a really sharp separation between church and state, and that is why I do not think that statement is appropriate. I will ensure that I maintain warm contacts on behalf of the government with all the churches in the Netherlands, including the Muslim societies and those of our Jewish fellow citizens. Then I'll move on to the dirt of the earth, the finances. In my letter to this Chamber of 20 November, I, together with the Minister of Finance, made an analysis of the possible risks in the draft budget for Security and Justice for 2016 on the occasion of the Brinkman motion mentioned earlier. The budgetary effects of this letter have been incorporated into the present budget by means of a letter of amendment. This letter was inspired by the concerns that lived in the Second and First Chambers about the soundness of our budget. These concerns have been widely expressed. Together with the Minister for Finance, I then identified the risks and provided appropriate solutions. Guidance was the remark of many parties, but especially of D66 and CDA, both in the Second and in the First Chamber, that an additional investment of at least 200 million would be required. Mrs Bikker asked how I could now think that all the problems with the 2016 budget could be resolved and what that would say about the budgetary system. In this context, I would point out that each budget is, of course, largely based on the previous budget. That was also the case with the 2016 draft budget. In this respect, the budget of V and J is based on the assumption that various legislative proposals would lead to substantial revenues. At the same time, it was uncertain whether these legislative proposals had sufficient support in Parliament. In particular, following the presentation of the draft budget, both in the Second and certainly in the First Chamber, it was made explicit that there would be no political support for some of these legislative proposals and there would therefore be no political support for an unchanged budget. The cabinet took these political signals very seriously alongside some other signals from various organisations and then came up with a supplement in the form of the letter of 20 November last. This naturally fits in with the budgetary system. After all, budget laws are also laws that come into being in consultation with Parliament. The right of amendment of the House of Representatives underlines the role of Parliament in this process and also the letter of amendment can to a large extent be seen as the result of the parliamentary examination of the budget of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u11	I have expressed my appreciation for the withdrawal of a number of legislative proposals which were less likely. At the same time, however, we must note that, for both the case-law and the Public Prosecutor's Office, substantial deficits were identified by the organisations themselves and that the Minister had them validated by an external, at least independent investigation. Then I sincerely wonder if this could not be done sooner and that we had to go through that process after Princess Day. Couldn't we have done that in the summer? I would like to get a more precise response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u12	It might be good to point out that the first decision taken jointly by the Secretary of State and me in the first week of March was to approve the 2016 draft budget. We were the last ones to do that, and we should have done that before. The budget is being drawn up very early in the year. We simply agreed to what was then, but in the knowledge that there would of course still be discussion about it. The report by De Galan Groep on the Public Prosecutor's Office and the multiannual vision of the case law itself did not actually arrive until this year. So we could not take that into account earlier. Certainly the validation that we had to have done, which, by the way, has had a slightly different outcome for the public prosecutor. I shall come back to that in detail rather than before the case-law, led to the fact that the wishes of the organizations concerned could not or should not have been taken up in one-on-one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u13	Now I have read that, in the run-up to the Spring Note, the Minister is doing a number of additional investigations in the Ministry. May I conclude from this that the Minister...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u14	Mrs Bikker, I can certainly confirm that. We have been conducting investigations in a number of areas, namely the Public Prosecutor's Office, the case law and the National Police. These are very important. The goal is to make all this come to a nucleus in spring and then see what the needs are. Are there needs and if so, which ones? Should the budget for the coming years be adjusted if necessary? In addition, I am now enthusiastic about the idea of having the ideas that come from organisations about restrictions and difficulties very critically, because in this way I can answer to Parliament about the additional contribution that might be required. The cabinet will make a total of 310 million available in 2016, of which 60 million for 2016 arising from the refugee problem and 250 million structurally for 2017 and subsequent years. 50 million of this amount is needed to cover the legislative proposals which are either withdrawn or amended. A number of structural investments are then made. The Public Prosecutor's Office receives 15 million in structural terms to invest in ICT and to give a strong boost to current work processes and quality and service levels. An additional EUR 20 million will be made available to the Judicial Board in 2016 and 25 million in structural terms from 2017, including for the implementation of the KEI programme. In addition to the 7 million already available in structural terms, an additional 10 million will be allocated in 2016 for the elaboration of the recommendations of the Hoekstra Committee. By the way, it is a total of 9.3 million. The budgets of the NFI and the probation are each increased by 5 million euros in structural terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u15	What is the Minister's view of the cuts and the additional funds he makes available to the Council for justice? He mentioned the amounts. In the contribution in the first term, several MPs also mentioned figures. This shows that there is a major deficit in the case-law Council. What's added isn't enough. Structurally, at least 22 million a year are still too little. According to the Secretary of State, is that correct? What's he gonna do about it? There is a major problem with the Justice Council. Then I have another question. There is criticism from the judges of the Council of Justice. The judges say very loudly to the Council for the case-law that it should have returned the whole cut. We must therefore note that the lack of money has created a tension between the judiciary and the council. That is, in my view, very serious. How's the Minister gonna solve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u16	Now I'm gonna get in trouble. This is my own fault, because I did not report to the Chamber in which blocks I divided the answer. I'm at the justice block now. For that I have a very thick pile of lyrics. I have now put forward the answers to this point, among other things. Then I'll go into detail about the National Police. Finally, I'll deal with the D.A.'s office. If Mr Ruers does not mind, I will take his question with him in the block on justice, because this is an important subject. Now I will continue with the questions of what the money is spent on and where it comes from. The intensification of the fight against fraud in close cooperation with the FIOD costs 20 million in structural terms. However, there are higher returns on this. I replied in writing to Mrs Bikker's questions on this point, but I will come back to that in a moment. Finally, for 2016 there is a total of EUR 138 million available, which is very important, for a number of things of which we now do not know what we should spend on it. This has to do, among other things, with the National Police and, in particular, with the collective bargaining currently taking place, as well as with legal aid in relation to the recommendations of the Wolfsen Commission. I would like to make a few comments. I believe that the budget of Security and Justice has been solidised with the extra package. This will provide the budget with an adequate response to the risks and challenges we are now facing in 2016. In my letter, I indicated that there are remaining challenges for the 2017 budget that could be addressed at the appropriate moments in the budgetary process, such as the Spring Paper. I am referring in particular to the point raised by a number of Members and to which the Secretary of State will refer, namely the assessment of asylum and the extra effort needed to combat terrorism by the Public Prosecutor and, in general terms, the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary. It is good that we are aware of the fact that, contrary to what Mr Markuszower has said, there is no indication whatsoever that the trend of reducing registered crime has come to a halt for years. When I said that in the Lower House during the debate, the spokesperson of the PVV Group jumped up to indicate that the crux is in the wording "registered crime." I have then explained that also the perceived victimisation is, in other words, that people in surveys indicate that they have been victims of a crime or otherwise are falling enormously in the Netherlands. In addition, fortunately, scientific research shows that the feeling of safety in the Netherlands is increasing, unlike Mr Markuszower said, even if it is slow. I say to the 50PLUS group that this is not yet the case for the elderly in our society and that I still have some concerns about it. That is why I have launched a number of projects specifically aimed at increasing the safety of older people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u17	Maybe the Minister can elaborate on the chance of getting caught in the Netherlands. That was 34% in 2014, I say out of my mind. What are the developments in the case of the chance of getting caught?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u18	The odds of getting caught have been about the same for years. Over the last two years, it has increased by some percentage points. In itself, that's a good thing. Of course, it is very important to realize that for the chance of getting caught and for the weight you have to give to it, you also have to see what the chance of getting caught is for which crime. In the case of life crimes and serious crime in particular, there is a very high chance of being dealt with. That's the way it's supposed to be. I admit immediately that if Mr Markuszower's bike is stolen in his hometown tomorrow, there is a very good chance that the chance of taking it is 0.4% or something. That's annoying, but it's true. The average thus goes in the direction of the figure mentioned by Mr Markuszower. I don't have exactly what it is right now, but it's in that order of magnitude. The potential for high-impact crises has increased enormously in recent years thanks to the policy that my predecessor has put in place. Solution rates have also increased enormously. As a result, the number of robberies, the number of shop robberies and the number of burglaries has fallen considerably more in recent years than crime and registered crime in other countries of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u19	I heard the Minister make a second comment on the budget relating to the Spring note before he replied to Mr Markuszower's question. He used the word "solid." There is now a solid financial basis for 2016. I note that I understood this correctly. If, on the basis of the adopted Lower House motions, I have just read in the written answers, we will see that in the spring note. Now we're gonna have to get it real sharp. Does this mean that motions have been tabled and adopted in the House of Representatives, whereas there would actually be no reason to do so, because the budget is already solid? It has been pointed out here in the broad sense this morning that there is the impression that it is more solid than before, but that we are not yet there. I have the impression that the statement that we now have a sufficiently solid basis for 2016 is not entirely in line with the experience of not only my group, but also other groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u20	Perhaps I spoke too quickly, because after I took the word'solid' in my letter, I also said that I indicated that there are still remaining challenges for the budgets that will be addressed at the appropriate moments in the budgetary process, such as the Spring paper. With regard to the four elements, i.e. police, OM, case law and the State Secretary for Asylum Influx, I will come back to that in order to carry out the motions adopted in the House of Representatives. Before Mr Markuszower interrupted me, I was telling him that the reduction in the crime that is happy will also be reflected in the new estimates for the criminal justice chain, the so-called PMJ estimates. These can in themselves have consequences for the size of the criminal justice chain that is needed, which can create the budgetary space for the challenges that remain. This also means that the PMJ estimates for spring 2016 are of great importance for the negotiations that will take place with the case law for the years 2017 and subsequent. I will come back to that later. This will enable the negotiations to take shape only in the spring of 2016. In the spring, the subjects for which the House of Representatives asked in the motion referred to by Mr Engels will also be discussed. Following the conclusion of the police collective agreement, we now have the drafting of the contour note for the strengthening of detection, which is the intended strengthening of the detective capacity. That's an appointment I made with the National Police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, but also with the regional mayors for investment in detective capabilities. This investment will be known in the spring of 2016, when we have the whole package ready, how much it will be. That is also what the 138 million is for. In addition, the police are currently carrying out a so-called personnel and equipment investigation. The cabinet response to the opinion of the Wolfsen Commission will also be involved in the 138 million reserved. Then it will also be clear whether this 138 million is sufficient, or whether some of it could be used for other purposes, for example for the Council of Justice or the Public Prosecutor's Office, or whether it should be claimed that other bottlenecks are being identified. Mr Engels can keep my promise that I will be combative. I would like to make a few comments on coverage. Experience over the past few years has shown that the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Investigation Service are increasingly and more capable of successfully detecting large cases of fraud and corruption in particular and of taking substantial amounts of criminal assets, including in large settlements. On the basis of these experiences, the Cabinet considers it justified to include a separate budget item of 100 million as an estimate for the proceeds of large settlements. The risk here is for the Treasury and not for the budget of V and J. In the direction of Mrs Bikker, I would like to point out that I attach great importance to this. I think it is very important that that agreement is in place. I fully agree with Mrs Bikker when she said that it cannot and should not be the case that, in the consideration I make as Minister, the Minister gives permission for this kind of settlement, at least today, I must say that, looking ahead to tomorrow's debate in the context of the question of the social importance of retaliation, the detection of crimes and the punishment of criminals, I must say that there is a role to play. That is why it is essential that there should never be a perverse incentive to consider it. If detection, prosecution and trial are to take place instead of a settlement, then there must be that freedom at the Public Prosecutor's Office, but also at the Minister who eventually gives his consent. This agreement with the Minister of Finance is therefore essential. Also, a business case of the FIOD, the Tax Office's investigation service, strengthens the criminal approach to money laundering and corruption. The expectation of this business case is that the additional investment of 20 million for the FIOD and the Public Prosecutor's Office will lead to additional revenue from the collection of criminal offences. That could go up to 80 million by 2020. That doesn't come up in a blow, but you understand that it's gradual.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u21	Mrs Bikker asked whether there was a similar agreement with the Ministry of Finance. That is not the case because that incentive does not occur here. I will monitor the proceeds together with the Minister of Finance, because we cannot have a deficit from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u22	However, it remains a fairly arbitrary relationship that makes the revenue from prosecution, for example by taking it away, dependent on the extent to which the quality of the prosecution can be improved. Shouldn't you be unplugging that? What we then raise in revenue through persecution and punishment goes to the general means. Independently of that, we decide what the prosecution or any part of the chain needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u23	That 100 million-dollar capital is exactly the way it is. That 100 million is made available on my budget in pluses and minuses, but the pluses are also at the Ministry of Finance. This means that the unforeseen benefits and the unforeseen deficits are no longer on my budget. It is not the case that the investments in the Public Prosecutor's Office depend on the proceeds. That's not how the system works. We have therefore also had the Galan Group do a validation to show that there is enough money available for the ambition and task of the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u24	In several years the proceeds of the settlements have come in handy at the Ministry to cope with setbacks. Then there is no incentive, because it is afterwards and then you see what's in the jar. Now the pot is guaranteed to be empty. The track record of this ministry in the past shows that there are some setbacks. In your budget, we do not see where there is any room to find a solution. How does the Minister see that? Maybe he can indicate that the returns in the past have been used for that or for that purpose, that things are not that bad. I'd like to get some insight into this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u25	Mrs Bikker is absolutely right. In the past, occasional yields have always been used to cover occasional holes. I want to get rid of that. I do not want a budget where you have to look again and again at the end of the year to see if there is anything left to do with it. It has been the commitment of the Minister of Finance and myself to work on a much more valid budget to remove the uncertainty. The pot is not empty, the jar is structurally fuller than ever before. There has been a structural increase of 100 million which I can counter structural expenditure. At the same time, these incentives do not exist. Unlike what Mrs Bikker says, I'm glad we have this jar. I can now spend more structuralally than I could in the past. I could never budget on the basis of incidental income, because, as Mrs Bikker knows, you can never finance structural expenditure on the basis of incidental income.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u26	We continue to disagree on how full that jar is at the end. I think it is empty at the end, because it is already budgeted for deficits in its budget. He estimates this for a number of aspects. As soon as occasional setbacks occur, we'll just have to look into it. I hope he informs us about that. The second point raised by the Minister concerns the proceeds from the fight against fraud. He puts €1 in there and takes €4 out of it. I keep finding that amazing. I do not know of any example where it is allowed to invest in a budget in this way and to rely on the earning effect. Does the Minister have any examples of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u27	Not from budgets, but from the experiences that the Minister of Finance and myself have with regard to the activities of the FIOD. We based the business case on past experience. We have agreed that we will monitor very carefully to see if our expectations will come true. Mrs Bikker still needs to see that, and I'll write that down. If it is not, we must be able to adjust in good time, otherwise we will have problems with regard to structural cover which I do not wish to have. The department itself makes a contribution of 15 million through cooperation in the management of the entire ministry. Among other things, you should think of joint procurement and further perfecting the collaboration within the department and the implementation organisations. Then I come to the issue of justice, as promised to Mr Ruers. Let me kick in another open door: independent justice is an essential part of the rule of law that I mentioned in the introduction. The importance of this is also to my satisfaction shared by virtually all the groups today. Some spokesmen, especially Mrs Strik, have asked questions about the state of our rule of law. What is the situation and what do we have left for it? I am convinced that we have a vital and robust rule of law. A rule of law in which the Constitution serves as a framework and starting point for all of us and in which institutions must adhere to legal frameworks. A living, but also a vibrant rule of law, because the challenges facing society constantly change and require adjustments. For example, following the Lokin-Sassen motion, to which reference was made, the cabinet is working on a Constitutional amendment which establishes the right to a fair trial and access to justice. This is not only cast in concrete, as it is now, but also chiseled in marble. We continue to talk about adjustments in our legal frameworks, in response to the threats we are faced with nationally and internationally. I would just like to point out that Mr Markuszower asked a question about what is going on in terrorism legislation, but that question has been answered in writing. I do not want to say that everything is going well and that there is no reason for concern. Concerns have been expressed by all the groups, which I will address as concretely as possible. As far as I am concerned, these are not matters that are fundamentally at the root of the rule of law. Let us note that justice generally works well. We can and should be proud of the Dutch case law. That is also evident from the figures. The confidence of the Dutch people in the justice system is considerably higher than confidence in politics and politicians. It may be acidic to establish, but it may also be very good. Last October, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, specifically noted that our case law was generally working well. This is also regularly demonstrated by comparative legal studies. The case law receives a contribution of nearly one billion in 2016 and currently has around 80 million reserves. In my view, the fact that the Council is asking for an additional 30 million in the case-law to be used in the price negotiations cannot justify in advance the conclusion that there would be something very wrong with the case-law or the rule of law in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u28	Now I'm really curious if I've seen the wrong pieces. In the multi-annual Council for Justice, I have seen in an overview that by the end of 2015.................................................................................................................................................................................................... I am very curious to know what reserves the Minister is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u29	That's where Mrs. Beuving catches me. I don't have that list with me. I will explain this in more detail in the second period. I note, however, that the multiannual plan, which has now been discussed, is the focus of the negotiations between the Council and my department on justice. The multiannual plan for justice is not a kind of static statement or a list of what needs to be done, but the Council of Justice believes that this should be done. I said that we should validate it, and we did. On this basis, negotiations are taking place which should reach a conclusion in the spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u30	The multiannual plan contains a number of proposals which have not yet been final, such as the case packages of the courts. That was the most complete austerity package. Assuming that this would lead to austerity, that financial picture emerged, which would have reduced own funds to zero by the end of this year. That was partly because of the investments in KEI. I do not have the impression that anything can change, but that this is the minimal outcome of that story. I understand from various sides and I also saw it in a report by the General Court, that if this kind of deficit arises in the case law, which is not just an organisation, the minister who has to supplement deficits. I'd like a reaction to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u31	We cannot afford bankrupt justice, that may be clear. I will come back to that question in a moment, or perhaps even in the meantime, in writing, who knows. That will then be Question 91, which will be dropped in writing today. In any case, I will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u32	Can I just say something about that? It must be the case that Members of Parliament have the opportunity to take proper account of the content of the answers to the written questions. It is a little too easy to constantly refer to written answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u33	I had not yet referred to written answers, at least indicated that there was a written reply and what was the content of it. I'll keep doing that. I see Mr Ruers making a move to a place other than where he was. In view of the discussions that are taking place with the Council of Justice, I do not see any reason for a parliamentary inquiry, but I see the concerns expressed, particularly in the article of the seven judges. Although seven judges, like swallows, do not make summer in themselves, that does not mean that seven judges necessarily also represent the entire judiciary. I think it is a good thing that I should remind the Council of justice of that article and ask him to tell me how he looks at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u34	I heard the Minister say that the budget for the case-law was established in good agreement between the Minister and the Council for Justice. It's good to hear that there's been a good consultation. I have also indicated, and in my opinion sufficiently motivated, that there is a very serious problem in the fact that the Council does agree with the Minister for Justice, but that the basis, the judges, who then deal with the outcome of that consultation in all those courts, are fanatical of turning against that result. I just gave quotes of that. Surely it is a very big problem that there is no longer any confidence in the Court of Justice in the workplace. The Minister was right to speak with the Council of Justice, but would it not be time for him to look a little further and talk to the judges? They say that the exercise is over and that the Council should have given that budget back. That's a serious signal, isn't it? What's the Minister gonna do with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u35	I believe that the Justice Council is engaged in negotiations with the Department on the 2017 budget and subsequent years. Those negotiations are the future. I have already indicated the importance of V and J's estimates, with a structural additional investment of 20 and 25 million respectively, which we made on the basis of the validation of that multiannual plan. This showed that the additional investment was needed. The debate on this is ongoing and will hopefully lead to a conclusion in the spring. The question is whether more is needed on top of that, I say to Mr Engels. It is difficult to talk to individual judges who do not agree with their own judicial board, as Mr Ruers asks me, because the independence of the judiciary also means that I speak only with the Council of Justice. In my opinion, this is something that is firmly enforced in this Chamber by my predecessor in office, including in the revision of the judicial card. I remember a long time talking about the role and position of the Council in the area of justice, because there were some concerns about how that process would go. I am, of course, talking about this with the Council of Justice, but it is not the case that I, as a minister, am going to interfere in this independent case law, with the Council's passing on justice and, in a sense, with the Dutch Association for Justice, the trade union for judges. I am not going to listen as a kind of works council to individual judges complaining about the Council before the courts. I would like to go further with the visitation committee led by Mr Cohen. It noted not only that justice was going well, but also that things could be done better and, as far as I am concerned, better. The systematic attention to the quality of the case-law is therefore not my thing, but the case-law is sometimes helpful. The Cohen Committee notes that, fortunately, this has not led to less quality of the work delivered. A number of spokesmen spoke about the workload, but according to the same visitation committee it is not systematically too high. There is a peak load on some teams, although employees in these teams also experience different workloads, according to Cohen, but that will not surprise the members of this Chamber. Several parties have called for attention to be paid to the quality and workload of the case-law. A relationship with the financing has also been established.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u36	I am very pleased that the Minister has a very cheerful style in answering our questions. I also note, however, that this gives me the impression of a certain lightness. Given the content of our concerns, I am therefore all the more inclined to interrupt. I think one of the findings of the Cohen report was that judges will always let their cases go first. If the workload is too high, they will always ensure that matters are dealt with as quickly as possible, or at least as quickly as they can. This will then be at the expense of keeping track of all kinds of issues, for example in order to maintain their own knowledge and expertise. That is a different picture from what I see in the Minister's words. I'd like his reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u37	I am glad that Mrs Beuving is shaping the hot potato on this point. If I am too laconical, I regret that, because that is certainly not my intention. However, I have a very clear view of the course of the process. We have, quite rightly, provided the Council with an additional EUR 25 million for 2016 and for 2017 and the following years for the case-law, because this was necessary. We then negotiated the case law with the Council on the basis of the multiannual plan. This brings together a number of issues, such as workload and quality management. The external investigator said that the Council made a claim for the case-law in the context of those negotiations which was not sufficiently substantiated. It has been agreed that this support will come before spring. I just said that the PMJ estimates will be a very important part of those negotiations. They show what the q will be that will be opposite the p, so the amount of work that can be expected in any case in the area of the criminal justice chain. That whole spectrum will come together in the spring of 2016. That is the moment that is also stated in the letter to the Court of Justice on which we have to look very carefully, namely what the Council has said for the case-law, validated and said, about what is needed to comply with the overall package, and how we will then resolve it. That's recorded in the motion. This means that the fighting skills that I have promised to Mr Engels, but also to the CDA Group, and indeed to all the political groups, including in the House of Representatives, will be urgently needed in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u38	Let me continue with Mrs Beuving's speech, because I would like to see one more point clarified. In its first term, it identified a large number of bottlenecks from the practice of the judiciary, such as the long lead times. I can see from the Minister that perhaps we can clarify that and it has nothing to do with laconically that he has primarily to do with the Council of Justice. A number of speakers have drawn attention not only to the Council of Justice, but also to what is behind it, the judiciary itself. The Minister is in contact with the Judicial Council, whose own funds are zero. However, the Minister still has an amount of 88 million. How does he speak with the Council of Ministers of Justice about the concerns arising from the case-law itself? It seems that there is no agreement there with the Council on the case law, which has this task vis-à-vis the judiciary. I have the impression that the Minister of Justice cannot completely ignore the sounds we all hear from the judiciary. What does that mean for his discussions with the Council of Justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u39	That is a good question from Mr Engels. Otherwise he wouldn't have asked him, of course, so that's a dumb comment from me. However, I have just said to Mr Ruers that it is on my way to share the concerns that exist with the Council of Justice. I will. I have heard them well, including the concerns about individual judges, and especially about the relationship between the Council and the judges. My experience was that, in particular, in response to the Leeuwarden Council's manifesto, which was, in my mind, a huge investment was made in 2012 by the Council of Ministers in order to improve the relationship between the Council for Justice and the individual judges. My impression as a Member of Parliament at the time was that that was also possible. If, however, the members of the Supreme Court are concerned about this, I hear that widely here, then I will convey that concern to the Council for justice, but with due regard for my constitutional role. That will not hurt me, Mr Engels.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u40	I understand the Secretary of State's role. I also understand that he wants to remain stable, but I am curious to see how the Minister himself looks at the concerns of the judiciary, not the Council of Justice, but really the judges. I'm not getting a good feeling about it. The Minister says he is speaking with the Council of Ministers for Justice, but I would like to know how he views it. Does he think that the concerns of the Chamber are justified? The Minister may say he's in his role and he's talking about it, but I'd like to know what he thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u41	Thank you for this question. I have a number of documents for me, including the report of the visitation committee - Cohen. This committee has come to some very important conclusions for me as a policy officer, for example that the workload is high but that this is not the case everywhere. The workload is experienced differently. According to the Committee, the case law is of good quality, but improvements still need to be made in a number of areas. For example, the case law itself still has to make a qualitative impact. This includes ensuring adequate funding from my position. Negotiations are now taking place on this subject. As far as I'm concerned, they must have their course. If there are any signals, it suits me as a minister to worry about that. I've done that before in 2012, on the occasion of the manifesto. So I will never say that these signals are not justified, but I would like to make sure that we make a few swallows of summer too soon. However, we should not think that this is the downside of it, that it is just a few swallows and that it is not a summer. We have to take serious account of the fact that something is going on. I will also discuss this with the Justice Council. Then I will be on the KEI programme for a very short time. I just complimented the Chamber on the digitisation of this part of the Binnenhof. In the caselaw, it is certainly not at the same level as here. It is high time for justice to begin in this century. I share this with the Council for Justice and dozens of enthusiastic judges and lawyers who have supported the KEI project. This means that the Council has made funds available for KEI. As a result of the validation, I will give money for it in the years to come. We all see that KEI is essential for maintaining quality, reducing workload and making justice more efficient. In my last visit as a Member of Parliament, I went to the court in Utrecht. I also visited the so-called mailroom. It really gave a nineteenth-century impression. It was very visible that the digitalisation had not yet taken place in optima forma. I shall come back to the reserves, in the direction of Mrs Bikker but also in the direction of Mrs Beuving. She had asked a question about this. Of course, I am also looking at efficiency in the discussion and the negotiations with the judiciary. However, I must also take into account Mr Oskam's motion from the CDA Group in the House of Representatives, which states that it is not allowed to have empty buildings financed by taxpayers, whereas this is not necessary. That motion has been supported by the House of Commons. In all these areas, I am still in good consultation with the Council for Justice. I will take into account the concerns of individual judges. Mr President, that was the end of my "jurisdiction" block. I'll join the National Police now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u42	Just to be safe, do I still get a reply from the Minister to my question on the skimming of housing costs? This has to do with justice and coverage, but I have not yet come across the answer in both parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u43	I'll have to take a look. There is a contribution from the Council to the case law regarding the new rates for housing. This means, for my budget, that we have received a refund from the State real estate company, as it is called today. Their effects will be taken into account in the negotiations with the Council for Justice. All parties are aware of this. It goes without saying that the Council's contribution to justice, which was so unexpected, should be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u44	It is perhaps confusing that, although that is of course very pleasant, we now have the written answers to our questions. I had looked at that for a while, but there is something different than I think I hear right now. I understand that there is in fact a skirmish of some 10 million under the heading 'Review rent reduction RVB', which amounts to a total of 40 million ECU at the expense of the Council for Justice. The written response to my question is that it is a surplus on the reserve of the National Real Estate Company and that the letter of amendment does not include any skimming of funds for this year. At the time, I thought there might be a misunderstanding, but I am getting the impression that it is 10 million, that they do come from the Council of Justice, and that this is an amount that the Council has paid too much rent to the State real estate company for the purposes of the case-law. That should go back to the Council for Justice, but instead it is now being used as cover. That's the one hand that takes back something the other hand just gave.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u45	I think it's like this. In the phrase where it refers to 2017 and further years, it says that the housing costs are involved in the price negotiations 2017-2019. That's the sentence I just described. I am aware of the fact that the Council of Justice, as Mrs Beuving points out, is making a contribution in this respect, but I do not know exactly what that is about. If Mrs Beuving wants to know, I will come back to it in second term and detail. That's why I'm saying it a little more carefully. In my view, the Council is making a contribution in the case-law to the amount paid back by the State real estate company to my department. Those contributions say it's 10 million.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We will take that into account, but I am not going to tell you how we take that into account, because then there will be little point in negotiating.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u46	You run the risk of becoming a technical issue very quickly. I don't want that, especially since I'm not a financial specialist, but just a simple lawyer. As a simple lawyer, I do wonder why this is happening. There is a great financial need for justice in the Council. A total of 20 million will be released for this purpose, rising to 25 million. In addition, the skimming amount is incredibly hidden. None of us would have pulled that out without help from others. Why, therefore, is there something hidden in the letter of amendment which apparently has to be resolved by negotiation? Why is it not clearly stated that there is a financial need and that an initial amount is made available for this purpose? Why is it used to use "I'm just saying" these kinds of games?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u47	I would ask Mrs Beuving to look at that differently, because they are certainly not games. We are dealing with a collective agreement for the judiciary. After very short negotiations with the Dutch Association for Justice, I was able to conclude them successfully. This collective agreement will have effects for the coming years. These effects must also be included in the price negotiations, because they must be paid out. The additional amount that I get back from the Rijksvoastgoedbedrijf results from the fact that the Rijksvoastgoedbedrijf is counted among other things with a lower interest rate. V and J is one of the biggest payers, among other things because of our prisons, to the National Real Estate Company, and gets more back accordingly. I do not know how that goes down again in the case-law Council. I'll get back to you on that. I do know this is gonna work out the way it's supposed to. It has nothing to do with games. There's a bump and a bump. The PMJ estimate is a lucky one. Mrs Beuving therefore probably thinks that it is acceptable that I should be involved in the multiannual Council for Justice, otherwise you will have the system that we are financing which is not necessary. That is not the way we should deal with taxpayers' money. It is really a matter of disappointment and disappointment, which we take into account in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u48	I thank the Minister for answering the written questions. I would also like to thank his staff who have done a lot of work on it. One question I asked about criminal law has not been answered. It's about hollowing out the criminal's function by moving the criminal's sentence to the board. In this respect, I refer to the article by Prof. Bovend'Eert. I have asked the Minister's opinion on this, but I have not had it. I'd like an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u49	I appreciate that question. I'd already written that one down. I have sent both chambers the undisputed opinion of the Council of State on administrative and criminal enforcement. I am well aware that the debate on this subject will still have to take place in the coming years. This concerns the advantages of one over the disadvantages of another. This is also reflected in the details, for example with regard to the alcohol lock programme. The judge has said that this should not actually be administrative, with the result that it could only be criminal. It then appears that the substantial costs can no longer be recovered from those concerned. Then the ordinary taxpayer, who is never drunk behind the wheel, is supposed to contribute to the possibility for someone who is systematically recidivising behind the wheel to do something about it. That is a very curious effect of the otherwise justified judgment of the judge on this point. There is therefore a discussion about this power play and the balance between criminal and administrative enforcement. I like to feed it with this room, too. I have therefore deliberately not commented on that opinion which has been made public. I would very much like to see a debate about it, especially in science. From the point of view of science, I would like to see what we are going to do with this. I hope that in the course of next year I will also be able to discuss this matter in greater depth with this Chamber. I'm a member of the National Police Department. On 23 November I sent a copy of a letter to the two Chambers on the progress of the formation of the National Police. I held oral consultations in this Chamber with 14 members of the standing committee on Tuesday 24 November. During that consultation, a number of concerns regarding the realisation and the local embedding were discussed. Let me get this straight. A number of Members, Mrs Duthler and Mr Engels, once again expressed concern today, but there were more Members who shared that concern. Following the Rethinkings Note of 31 August, many concrete steps have been taken, in particular in the area of staff reorganisation. In the meantime, 54,000 National Police staff have received their provisional placement decision. Fortunately, the number of objections is still very limited at the moment, but the deadline is still 12 January. The litmus test for the quality of the placement decisions will be how many objections are submitted. The reorganization of staff is one of the key points for me as a minister, from the first day of my arrival. This organization must and will unwind. Two aspects are important. People need to know what they're working on and the team chiefs need to be adequately supported. At the same time, people need to know about their payment. I therefore hope that, in the short term, I will also be able to reach a collective agreement for the National Police. That peace in the organization is essential. I hope that with both the placement decision and a successful collective agreement I will be able to bring back the basic rest. From my first day as Minister, I've shook hands with all the police officers I could shake hands with. Those I could have a conversation with, I had a conversation with. As a minister, I am incredibly proud of the unimaginable commitment, loyalty, and love of the profession and also the sense of duty and duty of the individual women and men who belong to the National Police. I do not distinguish whether they are uniform or not. It is really impressive how these people work together, day in day out, early in the morning and late in the evening, in rain and wind for our society. They are people who, in a situation in which every sane person, perhaps almost everyone in this room, would say "this is a time to take a break," move forward and face the danger. Because they do, we can afford to take that step backwards. I therefore hope that I can do justice to their interests by concluding this collective agreement and reorganisation in the short term. At the same time, there is wide concern about the number of district agents. Mrs. Strik asked a question about it. The area-related police care is one of the great achievements of the Dutch police. It is said, however, because I have no facts for it, I dare not repeat it one-on-one, that the fact that we do not see what you see in Molenbeek in Brussels and do not see what you see in Saint-Denis in Paris can partly be explained by the way the National Police have connected with the local community. I mention not only the National Police, but also the district teams, the municipality, the GGD, all those people who work for this day in and day out. That is one large, well-equipped and generally functioning system, making the connection between local government and government with the people in the neighbourhoods. I therefore regularly consult with the regional mayors on this aspect, stressing that they too must take responsibility for ensuring that these district agents are actually able to do the work. I'll make sure they're there, I'll make sure they're paid and hopefully they'll be paid more and better soon, but at the same time it's up to the local authority to make the task so that the work can take place optimally. It is very good to see that after the attacks in Paris, an immediate action was taken in almost all the municipalities to put those district agents even more on the street, to find out more about this connection, to look at the effects of the attacks in Paris on the neighbourhoods in the Netherlands. That is also an achievement of the National Police. The Chamber will receive a response from me one of these days to the first report of the Evaluation Committee Police Act 2012. Until the publication of the report, this committee was led by the member Rinnooy Kan of this Chamber. One of the sorrows of his membership of this Chamber is that he had to hand over the chair of this committee. I have to put it another way: he wanted to turn it in. Of course, I regret that, because I can do a lot with the report. I really appreciate it, as I shared with the Chamber. At the same time, one of the major challenges of the National Police is to focus on better detection. The results of the first year of the 2015-2018 Safety Agenda are good. For that, the police are without doubt a great compliment. Because, even now, the police are being called upon in the context of counter-terrorism and refugee issues. The police, too, must go along with modern times. In 2016, a substantial battle is already taking place in the fight against new criminal phenomena, such as cybercrime, financial-economic crimes and jihadism. It is sometimes thought that there would be no room in the budget for this, but there is structural room for a lot more extra detectives in this area. It is my fervent wish that 600 full-time equivalents of side-intromers at HBO and WE level will be added in the coming years. The recruitment of cyber specialists is going very well, but in the field of HBO and wo there really needs to be an extra step. This is urgently needed and it presents challenges. I assume many members of this Chamber have read Michiel Princen's book on the search. Then you see how difficult it is to fit side-intromers who do not come from the base of the National Police into that culture. This is absolutely a theme that the corps leadership must make a strong contribution to in the years to come. I think it is very important that this National Police should not be looked at in isolation, but that, in addition to the Public Prosecutor's Office and local authority, other partners such as scientists and journalists, including Mr Princen, should take a critical look at this process in order to achieve a future-proof quality of detection. We are looking for a police force that is part of a wide local network with care institutions, youth institutions, education and social services, a police that looks internationally at the new phenomena that are emerging, a police that is preparing to change the Code of Criminal Procedure. Members of the Chamber have rightly pointed out the possible risks to the National Police in my budget. That is why, as was the case before the Public Prosecutor's Office, I am currently examining whether, with the currently foreseen amount of the budget for the material burden, the already known ambitions in terms of performance, service provision, staff quality, housing, ICT and other aspects can be achieved sustainably. One of the points that will be taken into consideration is the reserves of the National Police. In that investigation, I take the risks mentioned in the budget and in my recent letters of 23 November, including the risk of the funding of the police's ICT portfolio. I've been getting signals from the police that I have to worry about that. The results of this study are discussed in the preparation of the motions adopted in the House of Representatives, to which Mr Engels has just referred. This means that the study must be completed in the spring so that the results can possibly be taken into account in the discussion on the Spring Note. Then we have a question that depends on the collective agreement for the National Police, on developments in the Wolfsen Commission and on a number of other aspects: do I still have money from the 138 million budget to spend extra on the National Police?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u50	I have a very short, concrete question for a change in between. Is there any prospect of the appointment of a new chief of police yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u51	That question has been asked before. The answer to that is no and yes. No, there's no prospect of a specific chief of police yet. Yeah, the trial's going on. A selection committee will be set up very soon. I expect to have a new chief of police in the spring, possibly on the intended date of 1 February. I would also point out to Mr Engels that there is also another vacancy in the corps leadership. I hope I can fill it out at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u52	Is the Minister still concerned about the integration of ICT systems?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u53	I will. The major challenge for the National Police has always been the perceived need for integration of ICT systems. The budget for the National Police ICT portfolio is currently EUR 600 million per year. Much has happened for this, including in the field of integration. I discussed extensively with the review board that the idea that in 2012 you could determine where the ICT would be in 2015 really needs to be released. There have been so many developments and innovations that the pen pencil brush approach has been chosen, by the way, with the agreement of all the parties involved. So that ICT portfolio isn't finished yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u54	What deadline did the Minister set himself for achieving this integration? I read the answers to the written questions, but they were not clear. That's why I'm asking a clip-and-clip question right now. I'm hoping to get a clasp-and-ready answer. What's the deadline? The minister says: in 2012 we didn't know. But we know it's over. There's got to be some kind of horizon, right? When will it be ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u55	Sure. This is included in the so-called milestone planning, which has not yet been completed. I've informed the Chamber about that. It is expected to be available in spring 2016. It will provide a plan for pen-pencil brush. Everything that was written with the pen in 2012 should have been marked with a brush. Sometimes it wasn't, sometimes it was much faster and sometimes it wasn't necessary at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u56	One last question. The Minister said that EUR 600 million has already been invested.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u57	Yeah, every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u58	That's a lot of money. What else does he think he needs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u59	I can't answer that. That is precisely the subject of personnel and equipment research, which will not be completed until spring. The police have informed me that they are thinking of an amount between EUR 60 million and almost EUR 130 million which is structurally necessary to resolve these bottlenecks further. That's the amount the police mentioned. I said it could be, but it can't be, I want to know exactly. That's why the validation. I'm coming to the state's attorney's office now. That's my last block. In line with the state-wide efficiency mission agreed upon by the government agreement of the Rutte II Cabinet, the Public Prosecutor's Office is also subject to a savings notice. It is important that the Public Prosecutor's Office has also accepted that mandate, which is sometimes forgotten, with the agreement that the College and the Ministry will find occasional solutions if unexpected occasional problems arise at the rate of savings. On behalf of the College of Attorneys General and initially at De Galan I also on behalf of the cabinet, De Galan Groep investigated whether that task was justified. In the first report, which I will easily call De Galan I, came as a conclusion: yes, that is justified, but then everything must go well. I'm just paraphrasing. There was more in it, but that's my paraphrase. Then the College of Attorneys-General himself asked De Galan Groep to do that investigation again. That's the Galan II report. That report contains the advice to speed up austerity or to adjust ambitions. In my order, an independent expert then carried out a validation showing that the Public Prosecutor's Office, unlike De Galan Group concluded on behalf of the Public Prosecutor's Office, is on course to achieve the mission without additional resources, provided that the surplus on the budget can be used from 2020 to absorb the savings losses that would arise in the period 2016-2018. Of course, I agreed to this solution method, because in this way the Public Prosecutor's Office can continue to maintain the existing quality and service level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u60	I understand very well that you can live well with the solution provided in the validation. I certainly would have done the same for you. However, there has been contact with the Public Prosecutor's Office about De Galan II and the validation, a staggering number of states. The message I received from the prosecution is that it is felt that this validation does not make sufficiently clear that the principles of the De Galan II report would be incorrect or not entirely correct or that they should be interpreted differently. The solution that surpluses could possibly help from 2020 also, in the eyes of the Public Prosecutor, is, of course, understandable again, not enough to meet the bottlenecks that need to be resolved, particularly with regard to new tasks that will come in addition to additional resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u61	I know that discussion. I'm not gonna judge it myself, because then I'd assume I can. It's interesting reading, such a validation. I noticed that the public prosecutor himself thought very brightly about what it would gain in savings from 2020. The validation has shown that this seems very rosy. The validation took that far down. The validation showed that there would be less money available at the state's attorney's office than the prosecutor thought on the basis of De Galan himself. So it also works the other way. Based on De Galan II and the validation, as a minister, I didn't have to do anything for the state's attorney's office. I have had good discussions with the Public Prosecutor's Office, precisely on the point raised by Mr Engels. I have seen that the Public Prosecutor's Office, for example in the field of ICT, should be able to make additional investments to further improve the work processes. That's what we see at Hoekstra. In addition, additional funds have been made available separately for this purpose. We know the D.A. could use an extra impulse. That is why, while it was not necessary according to De Galan II and the validation, I made structuralally 15 million euros a year extra available to a forward-looking Public Prosecutor's Office that has the space to invest in ICT and to further boost current work processes and quality and service levels. You could call that a non-compulsory payment as a lawyer, but then it is a payment I fully support, knowing that the D.A. can use that payment well. Let us not forget that other additional resources have also been made available for 2016 in order to implement the recommendations of the Hoekstra Commission that see in the Public Prosecutor's Office. That is 9.3 million for 2016 and 17 million for 2019. This amount not only benefits the Public Prosecutor's Office, but also the NFI, the CJIB and the National Police. In addition, the OM has received structural additional resources for addressing issues with an international dimension, 5 million from 2015 onwards up to 20 million structurally from 2017, and for counter-terrorism nearly 1 million in 2016 up to 2.1 million structurally from 2018. This leads me to the conclusion that important investments are being made in the budget of Security and Justice in the areas of justice, police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, but also NFI and Reclassification, and that there is a reserve available for collective agreements, legal aid, outline notes and the quality of investigations and investigations. In the spring note, we will then be able to fight if it appears that additional resources are needed for the elements I mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u62	Can the Minister respond to the new task of the Public Prosecutor mentioned in my first term, which is not mentioned in the Pechtold motion? I am, of course, very pleased with the Pechtold motion. I understand from the Minister that he will be fighting to collect the money for this. The tasks mentioned in the motion for a resolution lack a task which I mentioned this morning. This is the crossroads between punishment and care, where people are confused with the nuisance and crime they can cause, cooperation in security houses, the broad field of youth, family and morals. Today, a message appeared in the media about confused tenants causing nuisances. You might wonder if that's something new. With decentralisation, however, this type of vulnerable people tend to live independently rather than in a ggz institution or in an assisted housing situation, with all the consequences for, among other things, the Public Prosecutor's Office. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u63	Good. I apologize for not answering this separately. I also see that the question has not been dealt with in writing, but remember that you asked the question. With regard to the confused persons, there is the implementation of the Hoekstra Commission. He sees in several areas: in the role of the Public Prosecutor in the security houses, but also in the role of the Public Prosecutor in the decision-making of a confused person who is a danger to himself or the environment. There lies the challenge of interlinking the domain of care and the domain of criminal law. We all realise that confused people are better off in healthcare than in criminal law, while we also know that many people do not end up in care but in criminal law. Then the question is whether we can provide sufficient care. The hunt team led by Mayor Spies consists of representatives of patient organisations, insurers, police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the public administration. That team makes sure there's an integral look. In the amounts I have just mentioned for the Hoekstra Committee from my department, that aspect of the Public Prosecutor's Office is financed on the basis of the plan drawn up by the Public Prosecutor. That's a cover budget. VWS takes care of the financing of the ggz part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u64	I'm trying to get as clear and sharp as possible to my second term. Then I can shorten it very much. That is why there are three areas: justice, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police. The Minister has been very comprehensive and has created a great deal of clarity, but in the end I am concerned about the way in which we are moving towards the Spring paper, and more than combatable. He said: should it become apparent, among other things, that these three motions by the House of Representatives require additional resources, I will put that in the Cabinet for the Spring paper. In view of the way in which these three motions have arisen on the other side and have heard my own speech and that of many other groups, we have already passed that stage of'might prove'. I understand that the Minister cannot make any promises and I am not asking for any concrete amounts, but I think that we can see here in the first instance that additional resources are needed. That'll prove it. We can look again at how we're going to get out of there, but does the Minister understand my point? I would like him to replace that "might turn out" with something that gives this Chamber more clout to engage in the discussion with him shoulder-to-shoulder. I can tell that we all want that. This also determines the particular interest in this budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u65	The invitation to shoulder-to-shoulder with the fraction of D66 and also with the Chamber, I accept once again. The Chamber cannot expect me to already state what the results will be of all the investigations I am doing. I cannot indicate the results of the PMJ estimates and the negotiations with the judiciary. Nor can I indicate what the personnel and equipment investigation of the National Police will reveal. Nor can I now indicate the results of all kinds of negotiations that are currently under way, let alone the PMJ estimates. All of these aspects are important in order to achieve the overall amount that might be necessary. I taste this concern in the Lower House and the Upper Chamber. I have also indicated in the House of Representatives that I cannot make any promises, but I can say that I am going to be in a combative position. Mr Pechtold has explicitly invited me to this and has also satisfied me, perhaps because he has known me for many years. He knows that something happens when I'm fighting, but I can't guarantee that that fighting will also lead to a victory. I will make every effort to do so, but I must say that if necessary. I think I should be able to justify to myself what I think is necessary. The Minister of Finance and the Cabinet will ask me to do the same. You're gonna have to have facts on the table for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u66	If I were the only one in the game like that, I'd settle for this, but it's not like that. I can see very clearly from several groups in this Chamber that the answer to the question of whether or not additional resources are needed is already clear, regardless of where and how much. That horde has already been taken. Of course, the Minister has heard the same thing. Most of the groups in this Chamber already believe that additional resources will have to be entered in the Minister's budget in the spring note. The Minister's approach "I am fighting, but I have to wait or see the need for additional resources" is inadequate not only for the concern of the Chamber, but also for the signal she has given. We assume that, in one way or another, additional resources will be made available in the three parts mentioned, in whatever proportion or size. It is fine that the Minister does not want to commit himself to the nature and extent of these resources, but my group will not be satisfied with a 'I am fighting, but it still has to prove'. That's really not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u67	That is a tricky point, because there are simply adopted motions in the House of Representatives which I can carry out and which are clear and clear. They were also sufficient for an overwhelming majority of this Chamber to support this budget and the additional impetus it has given. I used exactly the same wording as I used here. This is also mentioned in the letter from the Minister of Finance and myself: we are investigating further risks in 2016 for 2017 and beyond. If additional resources are needed, we will find an appropriate solution to this, but Mr Engels should not try to provoke me to say that I already know in advance what the outcome of all those investigations I am having done and all those negotiations I am in favour of. I can't do that. However, I note that I have listened very carefully to the broad concern of the First Chamber, which I also tasted in the Lower House and which is contained in the motions I have promised to use as a guide to my actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u68	Just a brief word on this point, Mr Engels.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u69	Very briefly. Can I put it this way: would the Minister be surprised if all the other investigations finally showed that there was no need for additional resources in the Spring Note?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u70	In any case, let me say that I would be surprised if the outcome of the personnel and equipment investigation at the National Police Office, given the three-year extension of the reorganisation, would prove feasible. That would surprise me to a great extent. That's one way of putting it, as an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u71	I have a question on a slightly different subject. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply at this time and for his written reply. In the written answer I find an answer to my questions about the KMar's armament. I asked why, for example, the Marechaussee is guarding with heavier weapons at Schiphol Airport, but not here around the corner in The Hague. The Minister's answer is: "The competent authority considers that the KMar is professionally equipped and does not run irresponsible risks." Is the Minister aware of a message from Omroep West yesterday quoting the chairman of the VBM, the largest union for civilian and military defence personnel, Mr Debie? He will say, "It is an unwise decision to equip our people with guns." If that message is correct, how can it be said in the answer that the KMar is professionally equipped, whereas the president of the union thinks it is not sensible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u72	This is a recurring theme. Let me start with the first point. What Mr Markuszower does not read, but what it says is that we do not make any announcements about the monitoring and security system for operational reasons. However, I can say that the concern expressed by the Royal Marechaussee is well known to me and my colleague in the Defense Department. If the threat arises, we will take the appropriate and necessary measures. By the way, I think I can say that the members of the Royal Marechaussee can also have heavier weapons than only the service gun that has been put at their disposal, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u73	I'll let you say anything. The article also mentions this, but it says that the union finds it strange that the weapons are in the cars, but not directly available, when they are needed. I did not quote a number of things because it is too far-reaching for us here, but the article also states that everyone is referring to each other. The media ask the Ministry for clarification, there is a referral to the NCTV, the NCTV again refers to the military and ultimately the union's reproach remains that its people are not adequately equipped.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u74	As I said, I took good note of that. I have also said and reiterated that, as regards the threat and well-being of staff, those measures will be taken to ensure the well-being and safety of staff and society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u75	I would like to return to the interruption of Mr Engels. I have clearly advocated a more robust budget. The Minister now says that in spring, if the investigations show that extra money is needed, he will be combative. I think that's the least of it. I am very happy about that, because I do not have to think that this minister is already going down, but he is not doing those investigations because there is some extra money left. He does them to find out if there are any more holes or problems. If I see the budget presented to us at Princess Day and the repairs that have been made over the past week, I expect this Minister to do more than "I am combatable'. I would like to hear him a little more firmly on this point. I have also indicated on several points where I think the coverage of his current proposals is wobbly. Can he indicate whether this coverage is feasible, or whether he already has any indications? I would also like to see that clarified at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u76	As I have already said, there are no concerns about the 100 million: that amount is well tuned with Finance. Isn't there a better word for the business case? It is true that experience has shown that this is possible, but the question is whether it is. That is carefully monitored. It's my intention not to be surprised at that point. We don't have to, because we know what's happening at that point in the year ahead. In addition, it is entered in a sliding scale. For the rest, all the agreements that are there are concrete and clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u77	Well, as cover is also called a cash drawer and money from other ministries. Those are not very concrete points, no, those are points that still need to be filled in. I would like to get an explanation of that, and also on my first point that I just made in connection with my colleague, Mr Engels.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u78	A cash slide is a well-known means of bringing future surpluses forward to the budget of a year earlier. That's not something that suddenly gets discovered in my ministry. That is something that takes place widely within the government. As regards the contributions from the other departments, I have said in the House of Representatives: their completion will take place in the spring note. Mr Pechtold wishes to hold another debate on this subject, which is entirely open to him. At the same time, however, there is no discussion that these contributions could not be made. So that's solid, too. I can see very clearly that the Chamber would like me to say more than I said in the House of Representatives about the motions. I find that difficult, because the Chamber then asks me to take positions that I cannot deliver. As Minister of Security and Justice, I have decided that I will only take up positions that I can say in my mind: I can deliver on this. If I come to the conclusion in spring on the basis of all the flows that come together, the police, the public prosecutor, the investigation of personnel and equipment in the police, etc., that more is needed, then I will conduct that discussion in good conscience, on the basis of the back cover I feel from this Chamber. But it is still the case that, as a minister, I cannot make a commitment on the final result. Nor should the Chamber ask me to make these commitments for the simple reason that I will then be out of my jurisdiction, and I do not want to do so. I want to be realistic about that. However, the Chamber only needs to look in the letter from the Minister of Security and Justice and the Minister of Finance to see that it states that there may be bottlenecks in 2017 that will provide an adequate solution. In conjunction with the motions, I must continue to refer to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u79	The written replies refer to the motion adopted here in March 2014 calling on the government to ratify three protocols to human rights conventions quickly, so that people can lodge individual complaints. In summary, the Minister says: we are still waiting for the new committees to take their decisions. He finds it all a bit scary, because he doesn't know how it's going to work in Dutch justice. To be honest, I don't think that's an answer. The Chamber has called for these ratification proposals to be put forward quickly. The Protocol to the Convention on Social and Cultural Rights was signed by the Government in 2009 and has participated in it. You only do that if you really want to ratify it. What else will the Minister do? He says there might be more decisions very soon, but where does he get that? Is he gonna see what happens to that first? There are seven European Member States that have already ratified it. What is the government waiting for?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u80	I am pleased that Mrs Strik has raised this point, in addition to the written reply. This is one of the subjects which, in addition to the aspects I mentioned earlier, has required a great deal of attention from the national police, the public prosecutor, the judiciary, the budget and some incidents. This has proved to be an extremely harsh subject, as opinions on the wisdom of these protocols have been quite different since 2009. My intention was to discuss this with Mrs Strik, because I do experience a great deal of resistance and resistance. Recently it was discussed in the Lower House not to include the protocol to the disability convention. So that's where it's different than here, I just feel it. As far as the social and cultural treaty is concerned, Mrs Strik is absolutely right: that protocol was signed by the Netherlands. The other two protocols are not, so they have a different status as far as I am concerned. My intention is to lead us to take steps when it comes to the final protocol. But my impression is that it is not said that it will be successful. I think the subject is so important that I must be able to guarantee that it is as successful as possible. That's what I've been doing since day one. So far I have not received the green light I would like to have. I say to Mrs Strik that, unlike what she might suspect, this will keep my attention. I regularly consult colleagues and Parliament on this issue. I hope that at least I can take significant steps in the right direction with regard to the protocol signed by us, as requested in Mrs Strik's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u81	Mrs. Strik, again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u82	Thank you for that answer. At least it's something. Just so I'm clear, you're talking about successful steps. Are you referring to the submission of proposals to Parliament in a way that leads to the adoption of the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u83	If we file it, it has to succeed. In this Chamber there is a very clear majority in favour of these three protocols, otherwise it would not have supported the Strike motion. On the other side I can see a slightly different approach. I also notice that the parties involved are asking for justice, the National Ombudsman and the people around it why this is necessary, because we already have the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I'd like to give that discussion some space, which I've done over the past few months. But I fully agree with Mrs Strik that the situation for disabled people is quite different, including in terms of the parties involved, than in terms of socio-cultural issues; and we have signed it. My intention is to start with that at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u84	Very briefly, Mrs. Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u85	You have already made a commitment to this one treaty; the other two are clearly still subject to discussion. Can we receive a letter on this in the course of next year to see what will happen to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u86	If I fail to bring forward the ratification of the socio-cultural treaty, the Chamber will receive a letter anyway. But I actually hope that I can surprise the Chamber with a proposed proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u87	The minister needs to sign an emergency document. I give him the opportunity to do so, and I hope he will read the letter to be signed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u88	Fortunately, the Minister had already done so, Mr President!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u89	The interesting experiment that I think is taking place today is the question of the written reply, with oral answers from the Minister who is not fully covering each other. I can mention two specific issues to which I have received written answers, namely the question of organised crime and ZSM & Legal Assistance. I'm worried about that. With regard to ZSM, I am not satisfied with the answer, so I would like to ask you about it anyway. I may be satisfied with the answer on organised crime, but that is not in the Acts and is not part of parliamentary history. That's a problem for me. Another point is as follows. In response to my concerns about the financial position of the case law as a whole, the Minister writes that he will continue to discuss the housing and content of the case packages in the coming period in consultation with the Council for Justice. I find that very interesting, because the Minister seems to be a little less involved than the Council of Justice, who said in discussion with the committee that the current case packages at these seven courts are no longer affected. So I have the feeling that the Minister has gone a little faster in his speech, so I have not been able to interrupt him. I would therefore like the Minister to give an oral thought to how he intends to continue the discussion on the content of the case packages. What's the point of that if it's already gone?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u90	To start with the final point. The Oskam motion, which was adopted in the Lower House, asks me to ensure that there are full packages in those seven locations. At least: The Chamber expresses that wish. In the end, it is not up to me but to the Council for justice and even to the courts to compile case packages. The intention of the Chamber is to make that possible. There is, however, another sentence: without funding empty positions. I have just said that this last aspect forces me to continue the discussion with the Council of Justice. I have promised the House of Representatives to examine with the Council of Justice how, together with the National Real Estate Company and local directors, we can ensure that, given the importance of these packages, we can at the same time limit the 100,000 m of vacant offices, which are now financing justice at taxpayers' expense. 100,000 m is a lot. I really think that we should be able to restrict justice in the interests of their own budget. That is the tension that the Oskam motion brings about, and I will, of course, discuss this with the Council for Justice, on behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u91	I understand, therefore, that this oral statement is much better than in the written reply to the effect that consultations with the Council in the field of justice will continue, and that this discussion is not about the case packages, because it is as clear as I do not know what is going on but about housing. It is a question of how to prevent empty positions. Nor will this have any consequences for the current business packages. I understand that, don't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u92	That's a quick conclusion. The motion of the House of Representatives is clear about that. I also understand that Mrs Beuving is clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u93	And the Court of Justice Council was clear about that last week in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u94	Yeah, but that's the point, of course. The Court of Justice will therefore have to accept the consequences of this. This is another subject for the negotiations we are engaged in with the Council in the area of justice. As a result of the Oskam motion, there is quite a bit of tension, which we need to discuss with each other in a good way. We do; that is also stated in the written reply. Mrs Beuving asked a third question. She was pleased with the answers to the questions about ZSM. She literally asked to start legal aid at ZSM locations on an approximate basis. The special thing is that the mission of the Wolfsen Commission was at ZSM, but also at Salduz and the forthcoming system, which will be necessary to implement the current directives and regulations under negotiation in Europe. In the written reply I also write that I am taking the opinions of the Wolfsen Committee into account the challenges in the ZSM area. There is one thing we agree on: ZSM should provide proper legal aid. That is, by the way, the public prosecutor's fervent wish, because it gives adequate legal aid to those involved in the ZSM project, which often leads to a much faster and more effective approach to ZSM. Legal aid is therefore the starting point. And I am very much looking at the Wolfsen Committee when it comes to answering the question of how we are going to do that. Can I enter that in a converse manner? That is not yet possible, because I would like to take a close look at the opinions of the Wolfsen Committee on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u95	Mrs. Beuving, a very brief response. I shall then give the floor to Mr Ruers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u96	In my view, I have not yet received an answer on organised crime. I indicated that this seems to look good in writing, but that is still not in the Acts. So that cannot and still needs to be answered. Regarding the point of ZSM: how complicated can it be? We've got that ZSM procedure. In practice, we see that many suspects, when asked if they want legal aid, still give up legal aid. Then they also accept an OM decision, which means a criminal decision, and do not oppose it. That is a very bad combination, with which people in fact give up all their rights. The least that needs to be done is that these pilots are also shown to be speaking with a lawyer, with whom they will discuss whether they need legal aid. That lawyer may then give some indication of the consequences of a particular choice, for example of the waiver of the right to appeal. How complicated can it be? Do you need the Wolfsen Committee's report and a heavy study in order to implement it in more than a few months' time? At the beginning of 2016, the Chamber will be informed, and we will not even discuss the implementation. I'm not happy about this anyway. And I haven't heard a word about organized crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u97	I have a procedural question. From the time I kept the archive of the Dutch Order of Lawyers, I remember that written questions answered by the government are part of the Chambers of the Upper Chamber. If that has changed, I have not been responsible for the archive of the Dutch Order of Lawyers for a long time now. I just want to make sure. If Mrs Beuving asks me to read that before the Acts, I am happy to do so, but I thought the answer was part of the Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u98	You're one step ahead of me. I was just going to say something about that because we have experienced an unusual course of action. Members of Parliament sometimes ask a govern ment to answer something in writing because they would like it and so on. The Members of Parliament then agreed that the reply should be in writing. That letter is not included in the Acts. This is what happened today. A large number of questions have been asked, which have been answered in writing. This package was put to the House at the beginning of the Minister's term, at least the members were able to get it out of their computer and it was copied by the Registry very quickly. The latter is very nice, because otherwise everyone would have had more problems with it. Formally, that package is not part of the Acts. The time when the Minister at the Dutch Order of Lawyers kept records was a long time ago. The Minister may have thought that the letter I mentioned first, in which the Chamber asked for a written reply, was included in the Acts, but that is not the case in the Upper Chamber either. So in any case, there is a slight misunderstanding, but at least I would not recommend that the Minister and his colleagues complete the procedure in order to give a written package first or second-term reply. It turns out that the MPs can read quickly, but it's a little tricky. I would therefore advise against this procedure unless the Chamber asks, but that is something else. In this case, I would like what has been answered in writing to be integrated into the Acts. On this point, I would like to make that point and make it clear. The written answers are thus integral in the Acts. Scripta manent, you know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u99	I must, of course, say that the enthusiasm with which my department has answered the 250 parliamentary questions of the House of Representatives and the 90 of this Chamber may have been a little too energetic. I am sorry, but I am very grateful for the willingness...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u100	The 250 questions asked by the House of Representatives on a completely different matter were written questions. That is different from questions that are put orally during a plenary debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u101	I fully agree with you on this, Mr President, but this method is common across the board. I have not sufficiently satisfied myself that I have put the Registry with new, additional work. I'm very sorry about that. Next time, we'll do it differently. The consideration was that it would have a number of disadvantages if I had to read out 90 answers to the questions asked, but I take good note of your solution. I appreciate that. In future, when dealing with my next budget, I will deal with it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u102	Even if 250 questions are immediately put to you by this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u103	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u104	I heard the Minister say some time ago that there was a cut in the justice system in relation to the 100,000 m office space that is empty. That's an interesting point. I have heard that the Council of Justice has also been told in the discussions it has recently held with the committee. I also discussed this with a number of judges in the Utrecht Court. They reacted very differently: "Many? On the contrary, we do not have enough! We have very small rooms and we have two judges. You can see for yourself; it's really full here. We do not understand how the Council of Justice or anyone else gets to that 100 000 m." One of the judges said: "I think this is how it goes. If I come in at 9 a.m. and sit down at 9.30 a.m., I'm apparently going to be unbooked at 9.30 a.m. Then that room will be empty. When I get back, the room will be taken again. That's how it's measured." I don't know if it's true, because I haven't been able to check it myself, but here you can see how important it is that you consult with those judges directly. There is a completely different picture about the empty position than is posted here with a ease of: oh, we can get money back there. I'd say check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u105	I have already said that it is certainly not for me to discuss the individual size of the court's chambers with individual judges. That's not part of my job. Mr Ruers made the general point that the Council counted on justice in a way that did not recognise its constituents. I'll take that point with me. It seems to me that I can put this signal to the council for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u106	A further point on the Council's jurisdiction in the area of justice has remained. Mrs Beuving just said that it was clear who was going to deal with the distribution of business packages. The Minister didn't contradict that. I would like to hear from the Minister what the division of powers is like and whether the courts are about it or the Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u107	At the risk that otherwise I will not inform the Chamber purely on the basis of the law and the discussions in the Chamber, and I note that Mrs Duthler also mentioned the AMvB and I see that there was no detailed discussion in the written answer, I will answer that question in the second period. I know that a large number of your Members of Parliament have already had the debate on the revision of the judicial card and the role of the Council in the field of justice when, in my view, I was not even or hardly involved in politics. So I shall return to that in second place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u108	I think you were MP in 2012 and you treated him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u109	That's true, Mr. Chairman. You're right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u110	I very much welcome the clarification of the status of the written answers. I have these answers looking through the feeling that at least more than half of my questions did not come back in the oral answer. It is a bit difficult to always switch from listening to what the minister says to dive into the paperwork quickly. I am therefore pleased that this will be part of the Acts. A number of issues were addressed by the Minister in his written reply, with very kind words, but at the same time in very vague terms. That is why I ask him, first of all, whether he would like to make a specific comment on the points I have raised about the rule of law. These are fundamental points. Secondly, I would ask him to address the various points I raised at the end of my speech, particularly with regard to the rule of law. I would like to add two more specific points, namely the progress of the project Reinforcement performance criminal justice chain and the various questions about the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u111	I'd be happy to. In her introductory speech, Mrs Van Bijsterveld drew attention to a number of points concerning the rule of law. In my general introduction, I believe I have expressed my view on this. I now understand that Mrs Van Bijsterveld would also like me to address very specifically the points she has raised. In the written reply I indicated that I naturally agree with Mrs Van Bijsterveld that the principles of law are dynamic and to some extent flexible, allowing them to develop with society. At the same time, legal principles are also characterised by resistance, because they find their basis in moral-ethical insights, which are generally accepted within a legal community. Because society is always moving, new rights and interests and new risks are emerging. That's what you have to take care of. I see it as my task to keep following society, to develop policies and legislative proposals if necessary. At the same time, we must, of course, strive for stability and, above all, for provision. The element of provideability is, in my view, one of the essential elements of the rule of law. Anyone who has read The Kafka Process will recognize the oppressive feeling that creeps when you read about someone who doesn't understand what's happening to him. It takes pages long and at the end of the day he still doesn't know what happened to him. It didn't work out. That, in my view, is the essence of my view of the rule of law. This means that the rule of law will still be under development. We also constantly see that we are facing new challenges, as witnessed by the ruling recently made by the court of The Hague in the so-called Context case. It puts new elements in the trial on a number of points. There will undoubtedly be appeal, so I am not going to say too much about it, but once the text is available or I see it fully worked out, we will see elements that require us to consider the significance of it for a number of existing legal provisions and their elaboration, provided that it is maintained on appeal. Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked a question in the context of the Public Prosecutor's Office about the elaboration of the Hoekstra Committee and the catch-up on DNA. I am just checking to see if that is the question to which Mrs Van Bijsterveld wanted additional explanations. Two questions have been asked about the Hoekstra Committee, first of all what concrete improvement measures have been taken. I have included the answer to that in my reply. Let me repeat that, at least. The Public Prosecutor's Office is, of course, leading the implementation of the improvement programme following the findings of the Hoekstra Commission. The College of Attorneys General has launched several projects involving not only the judicial partners but also the partners in the healthcare sector. Its funding has been decided in the budget in accordance with the Public Prosecutor's plan of action. With regard to the DNA convicts, which I happened to have just answered in the House of Representatives during Question Time today, there is a huge catch-up. There are two groups. A group consists of about 2,000 people from whom we know where they live. They will all have issued their DNA before the end of the year, as the National Police have told me, whether or not they will eventually be thanks to police action itself. Unfortunately, there's a much larger group of almost 10,000 people we don't know where they live. It is expected that there are three reasons for this: firstly, that they are no longer alive; secondly, that they are abroad; and thirdly, that they are, among other things, taking or otherwise trying to escape the strong arm. On that last point, we agreed with the D.A. and the police that all these people should be reported. In the House of Representatives, I said that I would write a letter on the progress of the Hoekstra Committee before 1 May. I will focus on the question of how we deal with the group of 10,000 people not yet found, especially because I said in the House of Representatives that some of them still have open prison sentences. I believe that our society should demand that we do everything in our power to ensure that these people do not get away with their punishment. At the same time, as I said in response to Mrs Beuving, there is enormous cooperation between the Public Prosecutor's Office and the healthcare sector, partly thanks to the chasing team, in order to ensure that those confused persons do not end up unnecessarily in the judicial and criminal context, but are taken into account in the care framework. That was the second point of the Hoekstra Committee. For all these additional tasks, the Public Prosecutor's Office has been extra funded. The letter of amendment did so again, as it appeared necessary. This was also done following the review of the project plan of the Public Prosecutor's Office's approach and the finding that additional money was needed. That's how I did it. I hope that I have answered Mrs Van Bijsterveld's further questions adequately in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u112	Perhaps the Minister could comment on progress in the performance of the criminal justice chain. I am referring not so much to the content of the reports, but to the progress of the system as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u113	Sorry, that slipped my mind. I apologize for that. Mrs Van Bijsterveld puts the finger on one of the important projects to improve the criminal justice chain. I would remind you that the Court of Auditors has already indicated, well before my arrival, that things are really not going well, not even the coordination. There are a lot of improvements visible. The Public Prosecutor's Office is developing in the field of ICT. This is essential in this context. The National Police are greatly improving and investing in ICT. So is the judiciary. However, the chain is still not working properly. In order to further stimulate this, I have very recently found someone from the Public Prosecutor's Office willing to share responsibility for this with me in the department. In this way, we can continue to guide that project from the inside with the responsibility of the Public Prosecutor. I am very pleased with that, because we can also involve someone in that project who has stood with his feet in the clay. Of course, I report on progress with great regularity. On the progress itself, I am so enthusiastic that all the milestones that have been set will also be met. However, we are far from there. This means that there must also be real ambition in this area to achieve the unity that is needed between the National Police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the judiciary and around it the probation, the NFI, the Children's Protection Board and the guardians and the care sector, for example at the BOPZ. That whole chain really needs to get an impulse. That is what the agreements and milestones have been made for, but it really still needs to be implemented. It's work in progress. I am satisfied with what is now on the table, but my ambition is that it should be faster and even better. This brings me to the end of the answers to the questions I have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u114	Thank you. I understand that the Secretary of State is also going to give an answer in the first term, but I conclude that we are first suspending for dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u115	Mr. Chairman. Following on from the Minister, I would also like to thank Members for their questions and comments. As far as my portfolio is concerned, they were almost exclusively concerned with the asylum issue. That is what I will emphasise in my reply. I shall begin with the non-Dutch part of the problem. A week ago, I was a guest of our Greek colleagues with the Secretary of Defense. We flew in a helicopter over the Greek islands. Then you realize that any comment that someone could make about the fact that Greece simply has to keep the borders closed or controlled is a little more complicated in practice. There are so many islands, hundreds of kilometres of coast and rocks where the left behind life jackets are still visible. There is every reason to help the Greeks. Mr Nagel asked how we are going to do with coastal surveillance and how he should see it in a broader context. With Schengen, we once decided to have common external borders. The advantage of this is immediately visible. You can travel fast among yourselves. That is economically very nice, blooming and convenient. If you go to Belgium and France, you don't have to be in traffic twice. The disadvantages are less obvious, but every external border is now a shared external border. The Greek external border is also our external border. If you take on that responsibility with each other, it can't be noncommittal. Schengen and Dublin are fine agreements, but they are not always workable. In theory, it was not conceivable that the Dublin agreement would work. If you strictly respect them, that would mean that a country such as Greece, and rather Italy, would have to take on the entire asylum burden of Europe. The Netherlands could say with an influx of 100 to 200 people a year: we have few people entering the Netherlands as the first country. This means that we need more instruments than we do now. I cannot respond specifically to the Commission's instrument, but Mr Nagel asked how we see the developments of a European coastguard. Now you are a member of the Schengen club and if you do not properly guard your external borders, you can get a report on that. You get the year after that, if it's not good yet, another report. It'll take too long. We need to speed up the time when we see that a country is not properly guarding its external borders and we are taking action. Now we only have the rather drastic option of suspending a country or allowing it to leave Schengen. We do not want to get rid of that option, but it makes more sense to have resources in between in some sort of escalation ladder. I welcome the fact that we are going to discuss how we are going to help a country, and I say, in the friendly form, that it is better to guard its borders. Frontex can do that now, too. If we see that we are dependent on the host country where we are monitoring the borders and that this dependence is not going well, then we must be able to get there. After all, they are also our external borders. Another may appeal to us if we make mistakes, so we may also address a country, help it and then help it. If it doesn't work, you have to discuss whether a country should still be part of the club. I think it is a good thing that there are proposals about the gap in the scheme, which the Commission has also seen, and that we are going to talk about it. It does not help to say that it is the border of another country if it is our external border at the same time. If border guards are better, we're not there yet. We are no longer dealing with flows of asylum seekers who, in autonomous numbers, if you do not have a policy on them, can be dealt with. Previously, it was more and less, but if you looked ahead and looked at the total number of potential migrants with a possible right of asylum, then that was feasible. All these years we have been silently accepting that Schengen and Dublin did not work according to the letter, because the practice was feasible. Now we see that even Sweden is almost like this, because politically speaking, that country is the last country that would like to take restrictive measures, and it is forced to turn a radical turn of events, because it has done nothing about it for too long. I think it should be more controlled and together with other European countries. You shouldn't get some kind of race to the bottom. You need to coordinate both the reduction of entry and the distribution of the number of asylum seekers and, in particular, asylum-seekers within Europe. The hotspots have been designed for this, but everyone is explicitly wondering whether the pace at which they become operational is right. Mrs. Strik asked the same thing here. No, the pace isn't high enough. This applies in a broader sense to more things in Europe. You can say a lot about Europe, but Europe will never win the prize for the most rapid and decisive decision-making and implementation mechanism. The Greek hotspots are still somewhat behind on the Italian. Ironically, in Italy, just when the influx into Italy is well down, there is one surgically. In Greece, one hotspot is now almost operational. Last week I visited one, but it is far from at the level we imagined. Mrs Strik asks whether we should send people there for asylum procedures. However, no asylum procedures are being carried out there. Mrs Strik also asked if the people are being held there because they are not allowed through. Right now, they're allowed to go through when they're registered, and that's already a profit. It is not enough, but it is already a gain that the Greeks have been registering for a few weeks, taking fingerprints and doing a first check on the truthfulness of the alleged nationality and on the papers that people have with them. Only when one is registered and in the Eurodac system, where we can enter, can one buy a ticket for the ferry service. A few weeks ago, that was also not settled and in order. That's starting to happen now, but I'm not gonna tell any cheer stories about it. In the end, that is not the solution, because registering people only better is not enough. It is something that needs to be done, but in the end agreements with countries in the region on limiting influx to Europe are essential. That is why there are now agreements with Turkey. I am now addressing the positive side of the cabinet. A thought that was relatively new a few months ago, not only in the Dutch debate, but also when the Netherlands took that idea as a cabinet position in the European debate in autumn, is now the blueprint for agreements with Turkey. Moreover, I have already heard a not insignificant ally like Germany say: this is not enough; after this we have to agree with many more countries in the region about helping us to organise shelter. There is also a form to discuss the distribution of burdens, Burden Sharing, in the form of resettlement. I'll get back to you on that. In addition, the autonomous influx is tending to zero and the business model of the smugglers has therefore been dismantled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u116	I have a question about the previous point, namely the hotspots. I had indeed asked if we should not help Greece much more in the asylum procedures. The Secretary of State says there are no asylum procedures and people are not stopped. At first you saw that everyone could travel on the western Balkan route, but that route is now only there for Syrians, Iraqis and Afghans. The others will be stopped there. They remain dependent on the Greek authorities. They must lodge an application for asylum there. I agree with the Secretary of State that there is hardly any asylum procedure there. That is why my question was correct: why are we not helping the Greek authorities to put the asylum procedure in order and to actually assess asylum applications there? Then people within the EU will be given the right to protection; or not, if they are not entitled to protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u117	I'm going to be very practical about this. "Help" always sounds so beautiful that you can't imagine someone who refuses, until you're the one who has to accept the help and has a personal opinion about it in a kind of mixture of pride and self-interest. At the moment, the Greeks do not really need us to help them set up asylum procedures that will lead to more people getting asylum in Greece. We are prepared to do so. Something's gonna happen, too. At the beginning of the process, we register people who are out there. The question then arises where the people who are registered and eligible for relocation are to stay. That is a fairly basic principle that we, as Europe, are now doing together with the Greeks. I'm not against it, but if I look at it realistically, we're not even there to build and start at the beginning. The cabinet therefore considers that the current hotspot approach with the limited number and half-hearted distribution is not the solution. That was something that had to be done then. Then we had to put something into practice quickly, but now we're working with what we have. However, the cabinet believes that we should move towards a permanent distribution system across Europe. You will then be given a kind of European asylum with a designated place of employment based on a distribution key. One could say that it is no longer necessary to develop a Greek national asylum system, but to implement a European system. That's the cabinet position. I indicated earlier that it's not a matter of weeks or months. I am in favour of at least getting the procedure in Greece so that we can quickly assess whether someone is eligible for relocation. This also affects the size of the reception capacity, and the 100,000 committed places are still under development.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u118	One more question about this. You are presenting a wonderful long-term perspective, but you and I know that will take a very long time. It's a different distribution system. The Netherlands has, however, signed up for our part of the redistribution. We've only recently agreed to the first 50 places. It has only been a while since we put a liaison officer there who can arrange that. Why did we wait four months to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u119	That is not my impression, because our Frontex people have been there for a long time. I spoke to someone last week who was there at the end of his three months, and he was doing his second tour of three months this year. It does not make much sense to send a liaison officer and admit 200 places when the UNHCR is alone on that island without any form of registration. Redistribution requires people to be registered and to be selected for eligibility on the basis of the criteria for relocation. I could've given someone an office there, but they could only help out all day. That's what our Frontex people are better suited for. If all kinds of countries increase their numbers tomorrow and tell Greece that they have 6,000 places, it will not go any faster until they are there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u120	Finally, it's a bit of a chicken egg question. A few countries have some people who can transfer to their country. You have to start somewhere, and I would still urge the government to do as much as possible to implement the agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u121	We focus on the implementation of agreements by ensuring that what is needed for relocation is first built up. Other countries have indeed relocated, but let us also be honest about the fact that we are not relocating according to the agreements. Sweden was one of the countries that went there curiously enough and took over people without going through a hotspot. With this they showed their good will, but that is something other than keeping agreements about the hotspots. The medal has two sides and we shouldn't pretend it's already in order. You really need to use it to develop the hotspots. When I looked around there, my first flat reaction was that the COA and the IND wouldn't get away with it. However, the Dutch who are stationed there said that a lot has happened in two months. I am confident that they want that support in the workplace in Greece, but there is also Athens somewhere between the island and our aid. We have good conversations, but not everything goes in one day. Let me put it this way. I have already mentioned the agreements with Turkey which should lead to a lower influx into the Netherlands, otherwise the other agreements will not make any sense either. The financial contribution that we as the European Union and as the Member States are willing to make for reception in Turkey is linked to the reduction of the influx. Mrs Van Weerdenburg also asked if I dare to put my hand in the fire that there has never been talk of numbers in resettlement. I'm pretty sober and I feel like if you're telling the truth, your hand won't burn if you stick it in the fire. I'm not at all conversations with Erdogan or Davutoglu, so I don't know who said what. I do know that in the agreements we have made there is a reference to resettlement. No agreements have been made on numbers and the Netherlands has not committed to certain numbers for resettlement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u122	You say that we will not get over the money until the influx has been reduced. It was clearly agreed that Turkey should deliver certain benefits and that the European Union should invest money in improving reception. Surely it is not the case that the EU can sit around waiting for things to change and only then can it keep its own agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u123	No, I told them to run straight up. You're not gonna transfer the whole sum at once and see what happens. They're gradual processes. If you see that something really happens on both sides of the deal, they'll get even. I prefer it to go there very quickly. Then the shelter is better there and that would mean that the influx is dropping.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u124	In his written reply, the Secretary of State mentions the recommendation presented by the European Commission this afternoon. I understand that he has yet to study it and will not ask him about its content. There are now reports in the media that, on the eve of the European Council, there is another kind of mini- summit with Turkey from eight countries led by Angela Merkel. The Netherlands is part of this. Is that message correct and if so, are there going to be numbers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u125	I believe that this question is currently being discussed in the other Chamber in the debate on the preparation of the European Council. I hope that our Prime Minister will be able to attend, otherwise he will not be able to attend a mini-summit. I am not going to the European Council myself, but I know that my colleagues have regular discussions with like-minded countries. There will have to be a club of countries leading the way to try to limit the influx through agreements with the region. Resettlement can be a good means of achieving this if it really leads to a substantial reduction in influx to Europe and to the participating Member States. That is also the cabinet position. I do not rule that out, but I cannot confirm the idea that we have already agreed on the figure of 500 000. Mrs Strik asked how we are going to reduce waiting times, or I shall let it be said that we are going to increase as little as possible. I've expanded the IND considerably over the past year in several strokes of capacity. At some point you need to look at the relationship between experienced staff and relatively new staff. It is not that there are masses of people qualified at home who are able to make decisions and who you can hire immediately. The first time you hire new people, the production capacity is lower, because you have to work people in. In addition, there are bottlenecks in the number of interpreters and lawyers. You can't just expand the IND unbridled to bring the deadline down. We did what we could. In addition, I have put in place a track policy to deal with scarce capacity and resources in a targeted but careful and selective manner, by clearly rejecting asylum seekers without opportunities more quickly. That also saves a lot in the reception capacity at the COA. It saves the mayors the trouble of explaining to the residents that there is a need for accommodation for war refugees, while there suddenly eleven Albanians come to sleep. That's a tough story, and we all know that zero gets on record. Then why wait six months before we reject them? Then you have another lead: if the IND really quickly thinks that the story and the papers are all right, so it's gonna be yes, let's give it faster than usual. For example, we are trying to reduce the rise in capacity and policy, but we are also dependent on third parties to keep pace. The story about the shelter is even more complex. In the media there is a falling trend when one week fewer people have arrived in the country than the week before. The number of people who left in the same week is quite small, so even if it is less, it remains a rising trend. I can't see it any other way. There is still a need for more capacity. I do not recognize the image of Mrs Van Bijsterveld that local authority has nothing to say. The COA doesn't have a perseverance power anyway. I can use perseverance politically, but it's not legal, let's be honest. It's a long procedure, which doesn't mean I have room right away tonight. It does mean something when I say I want it to happen. That's different from when I request it. I only had to do that once more, not because I liked it or because I thought it was a good decision, but because I thought the alternative was even worse. That was with the Dutch, where a few weeks more people stayed. I want to get out with a local government. We also want to respond to this when it comes to issues such as scale. Eventually, you'll have to deal with a sum. The main determining factor for the capacity to accommodate asylum seekers, refugees or status holders is what is possible locally. That is why I am pleased that contacts with local government are generally very good and that we are able to find each other quickly; so are they, if anything. We have also agreed in the administrative agreement on regional management tables. That sounds very bureaucratic, but that does lead us to have problems faster on the table. If a mayor thinks he doesn't have to call the COA, because he has a far too small offer, he can find out that a small offer from a municipality with that of three neighboring municipalities can lead to a very workable plan, which we can carry out in this way. That's where I see big profits. In addition, the large bottleneck is to house status holders on the smallest scale, namely in housing in municipalities. That brings me to Mrs Bikker's questions on what is most effective for integration. That's really to get out of the asylum centre, with your status, and start your life in a community for a couple of years. If the conflict in the fireplace lasts longer, it's longer. That's the biggest bottleneck, so we have to work on that right. We have good agreements with the municipalities. The worst scenario is that children go from emergency care to emergency care to emergency care, I admit that to Mrs Bikker. The good news is that everyone in the Dutch administration agrees that we need to reduce this as quickly as possible. My ambition is to do so as soon as possible, but I am not going to give people a bed, because there is no more emergency care, even if we have to get rid of it as soon as possible. We now have good agreements with the security regions on emergency care and with the provinces on more permanent care, but this depends on the result we have with less desirable forms of care. We do it sober and decent, but sober isn't an excessive qualification when you see how we take people. So it's a lot of buffaloing. I appreciate the compliments and appreciation expressed by Members. I'll pass it on to my people. It's not a time when a lot of vacation can be taken. It's exciting every day if we make it. If the influx becomes less, as in these weeks, the risk is that people in the Netherlands will think it will be easy and that they may be able to take a week longer for a decision. So you don't have a shelter. It also happens that a shelter closes. The pressure's still on. It keeps buzzing. We have a good deal. I do not want to reflect on Mrs Angela Merkel in any way, so I will not repeat her words. As I said at a meeting with the mayors, if everyone works very hard and does what is agreed, then it can be done. That was my more sober qualification at this point. This was my general story, where I also answered a number of questions. We do have a novoum that we still have to get used to or what we have to stop with, that is possible. We'll hear about that in the next few weeks, if we get some feedback on the procedure followed. I have had the highlights and the other questions have in principle been answered in writing and thanks to the generous gesture of the President part of the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u126	Thank you, also for the written reply. I would like to discuss one more question orally, namely about language lessons in the care sector. I was happy to read that the COA and the Ministry are planning to expand those language lessons. Last week a number of professors wrote a piece in the NRC. The Secretary of State may have read that. In this they point out that some COA locations are opposed to volunteers who come to teach language. I understand from the answer that the Secretary of State believes that language lessons should be possible. I would very much like to hear that more clearly. That can also be useful in the locations where that leads to problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u127	Mrs Strik rightly says that my policy response does not deviate from her view, but that does not mean that the problems are over. Apparently there are misunderstandings that have led to those signals or have occurred somewhere that this has been refused. In such cases, I would prefer to talk about the specific case. If that information reaches her, she should not wait too long for the debate, but for it to be passed on to me or through my praiseless political assistant. Then we can act quickly. Within the COA it is often the case with these things: either there is a misunderstanding, which makes it possible, or it depends on a volunteer organisation thinking: we walk on the ground and we get to work. In order to ensure safety, there are vog requirements and screening when people want to volunteer in an asylum-seekers' centre or another COA location. This can have an effect in the event of great enthusiasm that people think they shouldn't, but that doesn't mean they can't, but we have procedures for that. Again, there is no policy idea or instruction to the COA to do so. We always look carefully at who we welcome, because sometimes there are attempts to use vulnerable people in a way that we do not find positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u128	For the sake of clarity, this was done in practice, that textbooks should not be distributed, that people should not teach language. That had nothing to do with the security check. If it is not related to security, citizens should have the opportunity to provide language lessons at the centres, provided it does not interfere, and they should be able to disseminate textbooks, says the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u129	Yeah, if the books aren't in the old spelling, it should be possible. It's also kind of the type of shelter. If it is a shelter where there are many status holders who are almost all already in a real program, with NT2 teachers, then it is something else. The offer needs to be matched a little bit, but I don't see any obstacles in advance for this type of activity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u130	Then we have now reached the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u131	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both the Minister and the Secretary of State for answering the first-term questions. For me, that was mainly the Minister, because the questions were mainly addressed to him. This applies both to the oral answer and to the written answer, although it has indeed been a bit difficult to look closely at these questions and at the same time keep the attention to be paid to the debate. The increase in the budget for Security and Justice, which has been achieved by the Chambers, is actually a support to the Minister to fulfil his responsibilities. I have a feeling that's how he feels. It is also important that the Minister should also use this support to fulfil the great task he is facing. The Minister shall be the Minister in his position on the Spring Note when it is necessary to review the amounts for the budget. It probably is. At least those sounds sounded in the words of the Chamber. If we have listened carefully to the Minister, he could not, of course, formally anticipate this. He did, however, take some account of it. It all sounds very good indeed. Nor does my group doubt the good will of the Minister. Despite this positive attitude and the optimistic words, however, my group is still not entirely reassured. The reason for this is that, apart from that good intention, we do not yet have so much ground to assess and appreciate the effect of the good intentions. This concerns mainly the budgetary side, but also the achievement of the important objectives set by the Minister himself. What's that all about? All kinds of improvement plans have been put in motion and some of them have been on track for some time. The Minister has said that he wants to work, if necessary, to increase the budget. We have passed through all the important parts of the justice chain. For example, steps have been taken in the police and reports on the chain twice a year, before 1 May a report on the prosecution will be presented and before 1 February for the Ministry itself and the negotiations on the MJP of the Council for Justice will of course soon be completed. But why aren't we reassured? That is because we need certain benchmarks and then in their mutual coherence. Can the Minister promise that in the spring, at least for the purpose of submitting the Spring Note, he will be able to have those reports ready and send them to our Chamber in the various areas where these reports will come anyway? The same may apply to the investigations that have been initiated, but which the Minister did not want to anticipate, and to the budgetary consequences thereof, so that we can see in the Spring Paper what is needed in our view and measure the Minister's combatability to something. Will the Minister undertake to do so? I would like to ask for a second commitment from the Minister. It is very important and very nice that these progress reports are indeed there in all these areas, but we also see that progress is taking a long time in some areas. The police have been involved several times in this respect, as well as the project strengthening performance criminal justice chain. It is therefore important to have those progress reports and to have a certain benchmark at some point so that we know when the Minister wants to achieve what results. Then we can measure those progress reports to something. Otherwise we can only say that it is nice that some progress has been made, but we cannot put it in a certain perspective of a final goal. In the first period, we have already discussed milestone planning, whether it was in black and white or whether it was ultimately just a thin pencil mark. I was not entirely clear whether it was just about the police or about all these different goals. In any case, it would be very useful to hear the milestones in these areas from the Minister in the near future, even if only in pencil form, and when they are achieved. Then we can put the improvement plans in a certain time horizon, a perspective. Perhaps the Minister of ours will be able to get back on his feet in order to achieve these improvements, just as he recently did. I'd like to get a response to these two commitments. I would like to raise two specific points before going into the rule of law as a concept. In the first period, we discussed the multiannual plan and, above all, the negotiation process that led to it. It was not quite clear to me why exactly this negotiation was needed before we could say what the Council's budgetary need for justice was. I may not have understood it correctly myself, but I would like to get a response from the Minister. The second point concerns the reduction of DNA. There is indeed a delay of 12,000 cases for DNA reduction. For 2,000 cases, where the addresses of the persons whose DNA is to be collected are known, the catch-up will be by the end of this year. Then there are 10,000 cases left, where it is highly doubtful that the result of 10,000 will be achieved. How is that even possible? Was it a matter of budget or bad organization? Why wasn't that also known in a very timely manner? In my final point, my specific question really comes back, and that is about the consideration of the rule of law. In the beginning, I argued that it is important in my group's view that the rule of law should not only be looked at in theory in terms of the triad, but that it should also be seen in the way the rule of law is practiced. Effective implementation is very important, as is a Ministry tailored to it. The Minister spoke very kindly about this. He wrote even more kind words about it in the written reply. Of course I understand that a little bit, because it is difficult to disagree with that. My point is, above all, that there are consequences when one also looks at the rule of law in terms of the importance that citizens attach to it, i.e. from the experience of the citizen. That means, for example...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u132	Are you watching your time, Mrs. Van Bijsterveld?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u133	I will, because I'm slowly coming to the end of my story. This means, for example, that we should always look at tightening criminal legislation as a very indirect steering mechanism and perhaps we should look much more closely at a real increase in crime resolution rates and the prevention of crime. Finally, at the end of my speech, I asked whether the Minister could give concrete results, preferably as early as possible and for the submission of the Spring paper, but also at least at a time of one year. We will then be able to prevent the exact same debate from happening again. I am very curious to hear the Minister's response on these points.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u134	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for answering the first-term questions. My group still has some answers, including the Council's role in justice. The Minister will come back and we are very interested in the answer. The Minister has indicated that he will involve the division of powers between the courts, the Council of Justice and the Minister in the evaluation of the revision of the judicial card. I am going back and forth between the written reply and the notes of the oral reply. That's what you get with such a written answer. In the written replies, the Minister writes that the position and mandate of the Council as such are not discussed. However, the allocation of powers will be involved in the evaluation. How is it possible that the position and the task will not be discussed? The Minister also states that he will discuss the signals about bureaucracy and the role of the case-law with the Council for the purpose of the case-law, and will inform the Court of Justice accordingly. I think that's a curious phrase. Of course, it is fine to see the Council as an interlocutor in this matter. However, it also seems to me that it is important to communicate with others than the Council in the case-law on this matter. My group therefore calls on the Minister to discuss the signals about this bureaucracy not only with the Council of Justice, but also with other actors in the field of justice. That's point one. My second point, which is closely linked to this, is ICT for the National Police. The Minister just indicated that 600 million euros have been spent and that an additional 60 to 130 million euros are needed every year. That's just a lot of money. We are having difficulty with the case-law and the question of whether there can still be 20 million or 25 million in the budget in order to catch up and better serve those who seek justice. Then why do we deal so easily with the use of funds for ICT? Of course, ICT is very important for vital business operations; that is unmistakable. However, my group expects stronger guidance on the whole process of integrating these ICT systems. My group therefore asks the Minister when he will send. Again, it would be so nice if a piece of the money that is now being spent on ICT would go to justice. Mr Van Kappen just told me during dinner break that you can afford a frigate of EUR 600 million and that you already have a very modern frigate for EUR 400 million, with the most beautiful, modern and advanced ICT, the latest in the field. I'd like to mention that. We are talking here about justice and the rule of law, and that includes security. I would also like to thank the Minister for the commitment to inform the First Chamber of the inventory and analysis of the delays. It is very nice that the Minister is going to take stock and analyse it. My group hopes that the Minister will take action on this. That is what we are assuming, but it would be nice if the Minister could confirm that as clearly as possible. Then I come to the questions raised by my group on the way in which justice is financed. They are, of course, related to the previous subject. We haven't received a response yet. So we hope to get it in the second term. My group also hopes to get some more answers on alternative forms of financing of the legal aid financed. My group would like not only to investigate tariff regulation and not use legal aid. We'd like those investigations to go a little further. Then I come to the 2016 Spring Note. The Minister states that he is maximum combatible when it comes to any additional financial resources. My group appreciates that. The groups in the First Chamber, including my group, take serious account of the need for extra money. Does the Minister share that expectation? Can the Minister be more precise when it comes to maximum combatibility? When it came to the National Police, the Minister said something about it, but it would be so nice if he could involve this in the whole budget. Finally, Mr Ruers has a response too well to his suggestion on a parliamentary inquiry. It was striking in today's debate on the House that all the political groups were concerned about the rule of law. In fact, all the political groups have involved the constitutional perspective in the V and J budget debate. My group sees this debate as an interim state of the rule of law. We have discussed this before. My group now thinks that a parliamentary inquiry is too far-reaching, but the second debate on the state of the rule of law, which is actually already in the planning process, could perhaps be brought forward a little bit. My group sees this as an appropriate follow-up to tonight's debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u135	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin by expressing great appreciation on behalf of my group towards the rulers, both for the written and for the oral answers. With their written answers, these rulers have laid down a piece of constitutional renewal, and my group is always very happy about that, even though it has been a lot of leaves from time to time. For once, I think it's possible. I thought the rulers were frank. I thought they were enlightening on many points, also on points where it was less convenient for me. They were politically sharp, and that didn't always work out for me either. They also had their own style, but I don't make any further announcements about that. I will be brief because, especially in the Minister's first term, I have walked to the interrupting microphone many times. We've had many exchanges of views and I don't feel like a repeat of moves. Moreover, I have already heard my predecessors make comments that I can understand very well. I also expect the necessary comments from those who come after me. I therefore confine myself to two matters. The first concerns the Ministry. The rulers give the impression that they are going to make serious work of the process of change. I'm glad. There is more coordination, more coordination and, above all, political sensitivity. We're gonna see. I was, of course, very disappointed when I heard you were hoping that something else would be said at the end of the day, that the decoupling of Security and Justice is not even being prepared. I am disappointed about this for two reasons. The reasoning in the written answer that tribal wars arise and that the police also belong in the chain is already very old. You can also give other answers to that, instead of throwing the whole thing at the Ministry of Justice. This is another discussion, but what I find even more problematic is that it seems that the government does not want to carry out the motion adopted in the General Reviews at all. I find that really problematic. I would like to announce that we, my group and I, will consider whether we think this is an appropriate response. Asking the question is actually answering it. I don't think this is possible. Then I come to the budget. We've had a lot of exchanges on the three main points, the police, the prosecutor's office and the court hearing. I also note, among other things with Mrs Duthler, that the Minister has declared himself to be a combatant. I appreciate that. He cannot make a commitment about the outcome, and I understand that. I certainly wouldn't have done that in his place. I hesitated when I read in the written reply that there is now a sufficiently solid financial basis. Luckily, the Minister later nuanced this. Otherwise, of course, these Parliamentary motions would not have been tabled and the Minister would not take them so seriously either. I believe that we can see that there are also those in office who have not been able to eliminate all the risks for 2016. There is a strong improvement going on, but not all risks are gone. There are also new challenges. That means there's still some work to be done. That brings me to the heart of the matter. There are investigations going on. The Minister is still in the process of negotiating prices here and there. I can understand that. We don't know what's coming out yet. The Minister said: should it become apparent that, as a result of the three Lower House motions on these three parts, additional resources are needed, then I will turn to the Spring Paper in the Council of Ministers. At least that is not enough for my group. I have indicated, also in interruptions, that it is my impression that not only my group, but also other groups have great concerns about the budget, the risks and the budgetary tensions. In all speeches, I have to a greater or lesser extent picked up the signal that it will surprise every group if the figure 0 is added to the spring note. That can't be true. So there is light between the concern of the Chamber and how the Minister reacts to this. I understand he doesn't want to pin himself down. I do not want to pin down the Minister at all, but I do see reason to table a motion. It's not meant to pin down the minister or send him into the woods. I would ask the Minister to accept the motion, in his own words, as an additional backup towards the discussions that will take place in the Council of Ministers on the Spring Note. The President shall: Members English, Bikker, Ruers, Backer, Bredenoord, Strik, Stienen and Rinnooy Can propose the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, following the latest letter of amendment, the budget of Security and Justice has reduced financial risks and budgetary constraints;]] [[noting that this does not guarantee the proper functioning of the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judicial system;]] [[Considers that the Spring Paper requires a second structural supplement to the budget, for which sufficient indications have been given from the chain partners and by the House of Representatives;]] [[urges the Government to bring the Spring Paper to a level that minimises the remaining risks of shortages and inadequate performance in the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-L]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u136	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his answers, both orally and in writing, although the written answers have posed problems for us today. I hope that the short-term report will make a good distinction between the written answers and the actual oral answers given during this debate. I also raise the question of the order of the answers, I say to you, Mr President, in case the written answers differ from the oral answers. I have had the impression a number of times that this was the case. In any case, I feel obliged to keep a somewhat more detailed second term than you are used to, Mr President. In my initial contribution, I asked what the Minister is going to do to really put an end to the urgent financial situation of justice, and more importantly, what he is going to do to enable justice to address the challenges of digitisation, quality promotion and reducing workload and waiting times. I did not receive an answer, let alone a satisfactory answer. The reference to the 20 million, and from next year on 25 million, from the letter of amendment I reported that advance repayment is not enough, especially now that about ten million have actually been removed from it. This has to do with the decision in the context of the coverage indicated in the letter of amendment, in order not to return the rent overpaid by the case-law to the case-law. Let me get this straight. The Court's own funds are set at zero at the end of 2015. A structural deficit of 32 million has arisen, visible on the 2016 budget. The austerity proposed in the multiannual Council for Justice on the seven courts is over. If necessary, something can be found in the housing without changing the business packages. In fact, that means that you are more or less faced with a structural deficit of 50 million for justice. On the basis of the letter of amendment, 20 million and 25 million from next year, minus the skimming of 10 million on the rent paid by the courts to the RVB too much. And then the Minister still talks about negotiations with the Council of Justice and about "if it turns out that extra money is needed in the spring note, then..." But I say to the Minister: that has already been shown! How much clearer does it have to be? In this context, I call on the Minister not to treat the case law as one of the many public authorities, but as the third state power she is. He must remain far from anything that might give the impression that that third state power is being financially cut off. I would also like to draw attention once again to the ZSM procedure and legal aid, an issue which I have raised several times. I did not get an answer, also because there were more issues, to my question during an interruption why it could not be introduced immediately, at least in the very short term, that suspects would by definition have to speak to a lawyer. And then I cried out, "How complicated can that be?" This concerns the question that a suspect may, by definition, speak to a lawyer in the context of the ZSM procedure and may say to him that he does not want legal aid. Pilots also show that suspects often need legal aid. The lawyer can then point out to them the consequences of accepting the criminal order and refusing to resist. It feels very wrong when people are asked, without a lawyer around, whether they need a lawyer while they're thinking: I'm going home with the score, no problem. So how complicated can that be? Why can't this be introduced directly, so to speak, at least as soon as possible? I do not see why it requires a study of the Wolfsen Committee's report. I am not yet satisfied with the Minister's reply on the tasks of the Public Prosecutor at the crossroads of punishment and care. This area does not seem to be covered yet, and I say it carefully by the recommendations of the Hoekstra Committee and its implementation. I refer to cooperation in security houses and the broad field of youth, family and vice. It is really more than what follows from the findings of the Hoekstra Committee. I have been given the impression from the Minister's replies that the concerns expressed so widely and intrusively in this Chamber have not been fully received by the Minister. I hope that the Minister's reply will show that I have seen this all wrong. In response to Mr Ruers' question about a parliamentary committee to be set up, a parliamentary inquiry, I fully agree with what Mr Duthler said. They are in line with the position of my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u137	Thank you. Let's talk about ranking. It's a little tricky. We are dealing with an oral response and a written response. I would think, but it is only a thought that if there is any discrepancy between the oral answer and the written answer, the spoken word in that case counts, so that the spoken word is above the written one, again only if there is a discrepancy between the two. That's all I can say about it right now. I call Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u138	Mr. Chairman. Only a short second term. Thank you to the Minister and the Secretary of State for the first-term replies, both oral and written. Our group will vote against the budget, despite the appreciation of the efforts made to answer the questions. Both in the Lower House and in the Upper Chamber I refer to my contribution in the first term........................................................................................................................................................................................... Our group believes that in 2016 there is not enough money available for the Ministry of Security and Justice and for all the tasks and responsibilities of that Ministry. The money that is available is not being spent enough to create more security. Among other things, we will meet with each other at the Spring paper. We hope to note that the government has adopted our recommendation and turned it into a policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u139	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for their reply, even though this response did not reassure the PVV at all in relation to the asylum crisis. The Secretary of State says that he cannot confirm that half a million extra refugees are about to be taken over from Turkey, but he does not deny it, at least in our opinion. Hence the next motion. The President shall: The following motion is proposed by members Van Weerdenburg, Faber-van de Klashorst, Peter van Dijk, Kops, Van Hattem and Markuszower: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to close the Dutch borders and not to allow any more asylum seekers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-M]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u140	Madam President. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their answers and explanations. I would particularly like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive, eloquence, eloquent, motivated and enthusiastic answers. When I heard the Minister talking about the problems that we do see, but which he doesn't see, I thought: how is it possible that someone sees that there are so many problems and still pretends that it's almost all done, as if it's all done? I think the Minister is underestimating things a little bit, to put it mildly. Mrs Duthler and others have pointed out that very serious problems have been identified. That doesn't need to be investigated. These problems are mainly caused by cuts. So there's got to be money on the table. The Minister is now allowed to look for money for six months, but the money has to be there now. In fact, we are not getting along very well with all the fine words the Minister has put to it. The problems are acute. I mentioned them in the first term and I'm not going to repeat them. Others have told it much better. They're big problems, but the Minister's acting like it's all gonna be okay, when it's a big concern to me if that money's gonna be there in three or six months. It is a lot of money that has to come: hundreds of millions are needed to solve the problems. I'd like to hear from the Minister that that money will be there in three or six months' time. I understand from the written answer that he is prepared to look for the money outside his own budget. I think that is quite right, because that is what we agreed on here last year. The Franken motion at that time already stated that the money is no longer in the budget, but must be taken elsewhere. I come to the Council's position on justice. In the written reply, the Minister addressed questions from the VVD Group. The VVD group was not happy with that, but I am not happy with it at all. The Minister writes: "The position and task of the Council as such is not addressed, because the Law on the revision of the judicial card has not changed that. After all, the Board was not established by the HGK Act, but by the Law Board of Justice. Its evaluation has already taken place and led to the Evaluation Law Modernisation of the Judicial Organisation in 2011. I will discuss the signals about bureaucracy and the role of the Council for Justice with the Council and inform the Court thereof." I also asked questions about this and the Minister explained it a little differently. This is not the answer to my questions, nor is it a response to the problem. I thought I made it clear that there is a huge gap between the council and the people on the work floor. If the minister talks to the council, he'll miss what's going on at the workplace. The Minister must be aware that the situation is much more serious than he thinks. I keep him from saying that Tjeenk Willink is "doing the dirty work for the minister." That is how serious it is in the eyes of our former chairman, not least among the lawyers in the Netherlands. Can the Minister endorse the opinion of Tjeenk Willink and if not, why not? I have co-signed Mr Engels' motion, because we need more clarity about the finances that are desperately needed on many fronts. There's not enough money across the board. There are big problems. There's holes falling. With all the Minister's beautiful, eloquence words, those holes will not be closed. I would like to hear if the Minister is prepared to close those gaps with concrete money. I have made a proposal to other groups to reflect on the state of the rule of law, in particular on justice. I have proposed, with caution, a parliamentary inquiry. I would like to thank Members for their fine words. It was a step in the right direction, but I would like to think about it as a follow-up to the fine debate we had here two years ago. I'd like to build on that. I imagine I'll come up with a little note in a month to see if I can help it out a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u141	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the rulers for their very quick response, digitally and on paper. I have the impression that the intentions are good, but sometimes it gets confusing. I have the confidence that the Ministry can work quickly and efficiently. Perhaps that promises some for all the improvements that have been promised. The Minister spoke nicely about the rule of law, in particular about the balance to be found. Of course, it is not just a financial problem. The crises have stopped by. The problems identified also need to be addressed in a different way. It's a permanent concern. Our Chamber will also continue to interfere and reflect on it. The Minister acknowledges that for all four parts of the chain, I also mention legal aid but also the need for attention. There's a lot of research going on. Others have already asked whether all these investigations are necessary. Are you gonna be okay soon enough? A number of bottlenecks are quite obvious. The Minister links it all to the Spring Note. So these investigations must all be completed. That raises questions about timing. We are talking about the 138 million, but I think that amount has already been spent ten times. The collective police, the Contourennota reinforcement investigation, the Wolfsen Commission and perhaps also the quality of justice and other parts of the chain must be paid out. The Minister will most likely have to negotiate with other ministries under the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. You can't start that early enough. What about all these investigations that make the Minister's search for more money dependent? I would like to make this a little more clear. When are these outcomes coming up? Who validates those validation tests? It all becomes very dependent on what third parties say, while we get direct signals from the field. Is it all gonna be in time for the spring note? Hopefully we will get the reports in time so that we can actually have the finger on the wrist in the spring note. Perhaps it will give the Minister a stronger negotiating position within the cabinet, which we are thus emphasising. I'll get to the motion. Thank you for the answers. For the first time, I get a somewhat frank answer, after a year and a half. You just have to keep stopping. Of course, it's just the first step. We really need to talk about the arguments for and against, because the motion is there. The Minister stresses that a lot of people say that such an individual right of complaint is not really necessary. Well, actually, that's the right attitude. Probably we don't need it, we have enough confidence in our legal system that we don't have to use that individual right of complaint, then why the fear of ratifying such a protocol? We don't have to be afraid of such an obligation, do we? In any case, it is good that the Minister intends to offer the optional protocol that we have already signed to the House of Representatives for ratification. He's not sure that's gonna be successful. I saw again this afternoon how persuasive our minister can be. I assume he is certainly that with regard to his own group. I have already understood that the other coalition group will probably support the proposal. So I ask the Minister, especially not to wait too long to submit the optional protocol Approval Act in the Lower House, because before you know it, the proportions have changed again. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the clear statement on language lessons. I think that's good for practice. We have talked about European problems. I hope that the Netherlands too, as the EU President, can help to improve this cooperation, that we may be able to do more in joint processing, that we can support each other and that this division will come about much faster. The Secretary of State is still reluctant about the Commission's proposal on resettlement; at least he does not say clearly what the Netherlands will think about it. However, we, as President, will hopefully continue this proposal in a neutral and proactive manner, as it should be for the Presidents. I would also like to wish both directors, after wishing them a happy holiday, a successful presidency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u142	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the two leaders very much for their response, for their openness and for their search for improvements in the budget. We have seen that in the written reply and here too. At the same time, my group is still not entirely free from ensuring that we can prevent a repeat in autumn 2016. The Minister said he was going to make a good analysis. There are already reconnaissances, which is beautiful. But the Minister says at the same time: if necessary, extra money will be added. Several colleagues have already argued in detail why it is absolutely necessary to add money. I ask the Minister to be more than just a combatant. I assume he was also combatable last summer, but it is just as much needed to be able to take the step now towards a budget for this ministry that is sober, stable and yet forward-looking, to throw in some VVD terms. That'll do the minister good. As an example, I would like to mention the EUR 10 million that has been discussed over the last week, which the police need to be able to maneuver and secure the current influx of refugees. We just know that that money is needed. We can't deny that. My concerns also apply to the cover already chosen by the Minister. A cash drawer isn't just a technique. If you move money, there will be less money in the future. You can back up why that isn't necessary, but there's got to be that backup, and I haven't seen her yet. The investment that is being made in the fight against fraud is a similar example. It is said that there is a return of 1 in 4. I'd say, why don't we put more money in it so we can raise more money? I can't see that. In any case, it is a valuable tip for the writers of election programmes: until recently it has not been approved by the CPB, but it may have been approved by today. I therefore look forward to the Minister's further reply on these points. But it is also for this reason that my group has warmly signed Mr Engels and others' motion. A question has also remained, namely about the courts. I asked if a review of the Judicial Card Act could be considered before any further decisions were taken. I have not yet heard the Minister say that clearly. That is why I would like to hear him say more about this. I can also endorse Mr Beuving's warm plea. I also asked a question about the progress of the Law regulation prostitution. The answer given in writing by the Minister was the answer I can expect from him, namely that he is doing his best. But this dossier has been dragging for so long, will we do our utmost to stop looking at it in the autumn of next year, but that the municipalities simply introduce it? I would also like to express my thanks to the Secretary of State for the answer, but also to him and his staff for the work in these spicy times. I will keep my concerns about the estimates after 2017. In my opinion, he keeps gathering resources to keep getting it done. However, this Secretary of State knows, supported by the Christian Union, that there is a solid solution here, precisely for the integration of those people who are now making an application for asylum, but which we are almost certain will remain. I look forward to Mr Ruers' note. I think it would be a good idea to follow up this debate in another way. Finally, these are turbulent times. The rule of law is in the surf, there are many challenges. I think that the two rulers should only be focused on real answers, and not on the crime-fighting image of a Ministry of Security and Justice, which reeks in the newspapers, but on a Ministry of Security and Justice on which we can build, a ministry that stands for the rule of law, for the values of justice, but also for mercy. If people are in need and knocking on the door, they must be given a safe procedure and be weighed fairly whether there is room for them in our country. That is why my group will not support Mr Van Weerdenburg's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u143	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their reply, both in writing and orally. The Minister has addressed in detail and to the point many essential issues relating to our rule of law, to the national police, to the courts, to the prosecutor and to everything that further affects the strengthening of the criminal justice chain. The Minister goes with a combatible mind towards Spring's note. It seems to me hardly conceivable that no additional money will then be made available to the Justice Department. The Minister does not want to make any commitments on this, which I understand of course, but I do hear the Minister's commitment that if the facts and investigations call for a higher budget, he will ensure that the money is also available, either on the left or on the right. I understand that, don't I? I wholeheartedly support Mr Engels' motion. I would like to thank the Minister for his comments on the assumptions of our democratic rule of law and the question of what moral code is included. That the minister appreciates Angela Merkel's appeal to take his own Christian tradition a little more seriously than the SGP I understand. I was very pleased that the Chancellor did so in this way. Perhaps the Netherlands has stuck a little too much in a past in which the separation of Church and State was interpreted very cramped. I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to raise this issue in his discussions with the various churches. I say with caution that the establishment of our rule of law cannot really be understood without respecting the underlying Christian normative principles. A lot of Jewish-Christian values and commandments are still alive, the minister rightly indicated. But how long can the flower of our rule of law bloom when it's loose from those Jewish-Christian roots? I therefore found it very striking that the Minister referred to the Kafka trial. In that you indeed see what happens when justice is separated from morality. That leaves us with only rules, procedures and bureaucracy, leading to the tragic death of Joseph K. in the book. I wish the Minister, and certainly the Secretary of State when I think of asylum procedures, a great deal of wisdom to stay very far away from them. For the rest, I would also very much like to see the note the SP has promised on the rule of law and everything that goes with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u144	Then I would like to give the floor to the Minister of Security and Justice. Minister, can you answer immediately or do you need a short suspension? With your hand you show that you want five minutes of suspension. I will allow you ten minutes; that may seem a little more sensible to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u145	I call the Minister for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u146	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with a procedural remark. It has become more than clear to me that the unwitting experiment offered to the Chamber in our enthusiasm for the written answer of parliamentary questions from the first term, various spokesmen and also within the organisation has posed a number of unintended challenges. As you yourself have said, this experiment cannot be repeated as far as you are concerned. I took good note of that. I am very sorry that it has not worked out the way it is intended to achieve maximum commitment and transparency. Without further notice, this experiment will not be repeated as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u147	Messages from your side aren't gonna work, because we're gonna set the order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u148	That's what I'm talking about, Mr. Chairman. As long as you do not let us know that it is still possible, because of moving insight or because you have changed your mind otherwise, we will hear that it will not happen. Until then, you will no longer suffer from written questions answered, even though we are secretly very proud that the department is able to...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u149	Unless MPs explicitly ask for it, with a technical explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u150	Of course with that addition, Mr. Chairman. But that wasn't the issue here, so that's why the experiment was unintentional and unconscious. Let me begin with Mrs Van Bijsterveld's further questions. It asked for the milestones for the various studies and projects currently under discussion and which will be covered in the 2016 Spring Note. She asked about the budgetary implications of this. At the moment it is difficult to mention an exact date for most studies. It is not clear, for example, how long the price negotiations with the Council will last for justice. However, I have deliberately mentioned the Spring Paper, because that is the moment in the budgetary system when the cabinet once again makes a wide-ranging assessment. I will make sure that these matters are, of course, ready in time for that debate. I propose to inform the Chamber, as requested by Mrs Van Bijsterveld, but also by other Members, in good time, as well as the results of the various investigations. If the Chamber appreciates that, I am prepared to provide that information on partial investigations in advance, so that the Chamber does not lose sight of all the investigations and results at once. Moreover, I fully agree with Mrs Van Bijsterveld that it is useful if the First Chamber has this information, in order to be able to make a proper assessment of what is ahead and if necessary. Mrs Duthler also asked about milestone planning at the level of the National Police. On 31 August I already informed the House of Representatives that I was preparing that milestone planning together with the corps leadership. In the spring they will also be sent to the Upper House and the Lower House. Mrs Van Bijsterveld also asked about the 12,000 people who wrongly did not deliver DNA cell material. She's asking how it got this far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u151	I have another question about the milestones. Can there be similar milestone planning for those other major areas that we have asked questions about? So for the state's attorney's office, the ministry itself, etcetera.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u152	There's gonna be one. As far as the Ministry is concerned, it will be in February, as the Secretary-General now expects. With regard to the negotiations and discussions with the Council for Justice, I do not know exactly. For this, I depend on the PMJ estimates, which come only in spring. But I will send all that information neatly to both the First Chamber and the Second Chamber. Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked about the 12,000 people who are fortunately a little less there, but there are too many people who have not taken any DNA material, despite the fact that they have been convicted and should give up DNA material under the law. To put it in perspective a little bit: the good news is that from over 200,000 people cell material has decreased. During this period, a group of people did not. That was mainly because, at the time they were convicted, they stayed abroad or were untraceable. So it was not so much because something had not gone well in the succession or in the implementation of the law, but mainly because they were already untraceable at that time. Experience has shown that about 80% of the people who are asked to report to give DNA material volunteered. After a second invitation to the other 20%, 80% again reports and then you have a group of people who do not report. That can have several causes. Eventually, about 15% to 20% of the people to whom the law applies do not report themselves. This gradually rises to about 10,000 people in about ten years. We will never be able to solve that problem entirely. I've reported that to the House of Representatives before. However, it would be easier if the legal impact of the Hoekstra Committee's opinion could be supported by both Chambers. Then we can take the DNA from insurance. Of course, the material will only become available after the conviction. That is a clear condition. The bill for that is in preparation. I'm going to talk to your room about that. Moreover, I do not rule out the possibility that this will be a rather complicated debate, also with a view to protecting the privacy of people who will then have to deliver DNA material when they have not yet been convicted. Mrs Van Bijsterveld has asked why you need a negotiation result to determine whether the budgetary need of justice is correct in the multiannual plan. The multiannual Council for Justice is the commitment to the price negotiations, the offer in legal terms. The annual contribution to the case law is partly dependent on the outcome of those price negotiations and is based on the PxQ model. Price negotiations are still ongoing. Alternative forms of financing of justice are also envisaged in a number of areas. They will also be part of the negotiations. Let me give you an example. In the system in which the Q is always involved, for example, absenteeism, where there are very many, finances some of the complex cases, while in principle the complex cases are not financed sufficiently. I have discussed with the Court of Justice a more efficient approach to divorces, in which the meetings take place not in a few months, but in one day. If so, you must of course look for another funding system. These are typical points that are taken into account in the price negotiations. In anticipation of these price negotiations, due to the validation of the multiannual plan, I felt that it was necessary to make 20 million for 2016 and 25 million structurally available to the judiciary as of 2017. The validation showed that this would be necessary in any case. Mrs Van Bijsterveld then asked about the practical side of the rule of law. I really liked that. I admit that I have looked at the rule of law from top to bottom in the opening words: what are the principles and how do they work out? Mrs Van Bijsterveld looks at how it works from below, how it works for the people who experience the rule of law. I think that's very good. We must continue to do so on a regular basis. In all the implementation programmes we have, there is a great deal of attention to this. They're always human-centered. Not the principle is leading, but the effect. As an example, I would like to mention the programme for strengthening the performance of the criminal justice chain, but certainly also the revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I will certainly speak to the Chamber 22 more times about this, because there are 22 legislative proposals in preparation. We always take this as a starting point: how do we make it recognizable, easy, fast, efficient and practical for the individual. In addition, there is the legislative proposal for a review of the enforcement of criminal law decisions, with which we propose a whole new system for the enforcement of criminal law decisions. That is, if I am not mistaken, just accepted by the House of Representatives and will be arriving very soon. I think it would be good to discuss the practical issue raised by Mrs Van Bijsterveld in this legislative proposal. In doing so, I made both commitments that Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked for: the milestones and the spring reports and their budgetary consequences. We will inform the House of this very carefully. I explained the DNA, the justice system and the rule of law. Mrs Van Bijsterveld said at the end of her speech that she would like to avoid a debate like this. I thought the debate was very good and very important in terms of content. However, I fully agree with her that, from the point of view of the Minister, it is better if the budget for security and justice is a hammerpiece, as has been the case in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u153	Nothing to the detriment of the debate. I also think it is very good and beautiful and I hope that we will repeat it often. My fear was that we would literally repeat it in the same way. I hope that we will make progress in the debates. That's all it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u154	That is also my keen wish, because the starting point from the moment I started as a minister is to ensure that the debates are about the content and not about issues such as funding, needs, deficits, cuts and that sort of thing. That is also the commitment of the letter that the Minister of Finance and I sent together. We must ensure that this department's budget is calm. I had skipped a question because I suspected that Mrs Duthler would know the content of that particular point better than I do. That is why I now come to the next answer, which is left over from the first term. When it comes to the division of powers within the Council for the case-law and the responsibility of the courts with regard to case packages and seats, we have two different powers: the seat on the one hand and the division of cases between the seats on the other. Article 21b (1) of the Law on the Judicial Organisation provides that a seat for each court is to be appointed at AMvB. The nomination for that AMvB shall not be made until four weeks after the subject has been submitted to both Chambers of the States-General. It is an express undertaking from my predecessor that seats should not be changed without the Court being informed. A different system of jurisdiction applies to the distribution of cases. There, Article 21 (1) of the Law on the Judicial Organisation empowers the administration of a court to draw up a division of the case rules, which determine for each seat the category of cases in which hearings are held. I have looked again at the Acts on this matter. By my predecessor, it has been explicitly stated that it is very important that the courts at the lowest level are able to distribute cases between the courts in such a way that maximum efficiency, maximum accessibility and maximum access to justice are possible. Article 21a (1) of the same law provides that such regulations require the assent of the Council in the case-law. According to paragraph 2, that consent can be withheld only because of a breach of the law or the public interest, including the importance of ensuring the proper access to justice and the proper conduct of the court. These two may be contradictory. It is essential and legally established that both should be considered. Both the courts and the Council of Justice therefore have jurisdiction over the division of cases. The initiative lies with the courts, but in practice there will be a collusion. Article 6 of the Law on the Judicial Organisations then gives the Minister of Security and Justice the power to propose a decision of the Court of Justice for annulment by Royal Decree if the decision is contrary to the law or the importance of the proper conduct of the judicial organisation. The distribution of cases between the seats does not therefore have to be settled at AMvB, but the seats themselves. That has always been the Council's starting point for justice: we do not get to the seats because they are fixed, but we do want to look closely at the case packages.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u155	Thank you for this clear answer. This means that the presidents cannot bind the courts. The Minister hasn't talked about that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u156	Then I fear that Mrs Duthler is trumping me again, because I have not prepared what the rules of the courts look like. I say it carefully, and if it is different, I will let you know in writing, but it seems logical to me that as President, you cannot make such decisions on your own, as part of the administration of justice. I assume that, when it is discussed at the President's meeting, it should at least be supported by the board. Besides, if it were different, how would it go on such a board? Then there's one who's decided and the others are against it. Of course, there is a board for a reason. In fact, it was very consciously chosen to put someone on that board who did not come from the judicial organisation, to get a bit of a cross-eye in the company. Mrs Duthler also asked for signals about bureaucracy. She asked me if I could discuss with others the bureaucracy and the role of the Council in the justice process. I understood the signals I received from the Chamber and I listened very carefully to them. I will, of course, talk to the Council about this. This applies to a number of subjects, including the subject to which Mr Ruers has referred to me. That is my primary interlocutor in this field, but I can also, of course, in my discussions with other chain partners, for example the Public Prosecutor's Office, but also the Dutch Bar Association and perhaps even the National Police, pick up the signals they have on this point. If there are any signs, I will, of course, pass them on to the Council for Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u157	Perhaps one more suggestion: to include the courts in the list you just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u158	That is difficult, because that would really exceed my authority. The courts are not, in principle, my point of contact under the law. Of course, I am free to exchange views with individual judges, but I would very much pass the case-law Council if I were to speak to the courts as a minister. That is what I said to Mr Ruers. I will, of course, discuss the signals with the Council of Ministers for Justice, but I really think that I, including in this House, should adhere to the constitutional conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u159	What about the NVV?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u160	The NVvR is a direct interlocutor of mine in the framework of the Law on the Legal Status of Judicial Officials. I am free to speak with that at all times. I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u161	I have a very brief question for the Minister. I understand the constitutional position he is in, but perhaps it would be a solution if he spoke to the council and asked for proper permission to speak with the judges.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u162	The council will never object to conversations I have as an individual with individual judges. Well, that's what happens. I even know judges, so it just happens. But that is something other than that I am going to speak with individual judges in my constitutional position as Minister of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u163	It may be a little faint, but I heard you mention earlier that you were also going to speak with different church societies. Of course, that's not your constitutional position either. So I don't see so many obstacles.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u164	I must bring Mrs Duthler to justice on this point. I am Minister for the Service of Honor and I have the task of speaking on behalf of the Cabinet with all the churches, including the Muslims and the Jewish community in the Netherlands. I am therefore quite free to do so. And if Mrs Duthler means that I would have to ask for permission from the higher power, then I refer back to the separation of Church and State. That will not be the case. I will be able to do this independently as Minister for the Service of Honor. Mrs Duthler said 600 million has been invested in ICT in the National Police. It is something else: 600 million a year is invested in the ICT of the National Police. The discussion is about whether more needs to be done. Then Mrs Duthler said: perhaps there is more to that, but can't there be any more? That's exactly the discussion I'm in with the National Police. I would like to have that discussion carefully, which is why we have research on personnel and equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u165	If it's 600 million euros a year... It is becoming increasingly difficult to understand, but can you inform the Chamber of what the total amount of investment has been so far? Because that's going to have to run into the billions so slowly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u166	I assume that's 600 million a year times the number of years. The National Police started in 2012, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u167	Then you're almost at $2 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u168	January 2013.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u169	Yeah, okay, but the law was passed in this Chamber in 2012. So no doubt, yes: 600 million a year. That's the amount. Now comes the signal from the National Police that this would not be enough. I believe that as a guardian of the taxpayer, I am obliged to look carefully at this point. That doesn't mean I'm ruling out the need. That is what I am saying to Mr Engels. If the research we are doing shows that there is a need for more investment in ICT or that the efficiency contribution made by the National Police is unfeasible, these are typical outcomes that are part of my discussions in the spring note with the Minister of Finance and the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u170	But could a little, a few tens of millions perhaps, of the 1.8 billion that has been invested in ICTs by now be even more able to go to justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u171	The National Police have their own budget. Mrs. Duthler knows that better than anyone. The National Police also has an independent position, which is the subject of investigation of the Committee Evaluation Police Act 2012. That committee is investigating exactly how that position should be. However, I cannot move back and forth between one and two. Moreover, I have already made a substantial contribution to the Justice Council for ICT of 20 million in 2016 and 25 million in 2017 and beyond. I don't know if that's enough; that's what the PMJ estimates show. I will inform the House of this further in the spring, in accordance with Mrs Van Bijsterveld's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u172	I cannot help noticing, after Mrs Duthler's very instructive interruptions, that my mouth almost fell open when I realized that this kind of money was involved in police ICT, while the justice system is taking the entire digitisation with the KEI programme entirely out of its own pocket, at the expense of equity. I have just heard amounts of ICT that are of a totally different order. Something seems very crooked, but maybe we're missing something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u173	I understand that very well. And let me point out that I had exactly the same reaction as Mrs Duthler and Mrs Beuving when I first heard it. But let us not forget that the National Police have a budget of around 5.5 billion. Then 600 million percent in itself isn't so crazy. I do not know exactly what the relationship is with the Council of Justice, but it has a budget of just under 1 billion. I wouldn't be surprised if it was somewhat in line with each other. However, I realise, precisely because what Mrs Beuving is saying is true, that the KEI investment in justice is at risk of getting in the way of this KEI investment. That is exactly why I have determined: as a result of the validation I have to do something. That's what I did. This has also become possible thanks to the support of the many groups in both the First and Second Chambers, and I am very grateful for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u174	Mr English and then Mr Markuszower. And Mrs. Duthler, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u175	A surprising move, but I would like to support the Minister's intervention. I would like to say to the good colleagues of VVD and PvdA: take a good look at the motion that has been tabled, because it gives you a better chance of getting something for the areas you are talking about than you are starting to mess with ICT. But it's just a suggestion!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u176	Mrs Duthler replied.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u177	It wasn't my suggestion to mess with ICT. That extra tens of millions for justice was not specifically intended for ICT, but simply to eliminate the deficits and bottlenecks there. That's my heart cry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u178	But that is understandable, of course. It will also be the portrait of my reply to Mr Engels' motion. In any case, it has been my intention to state that I understand the concerns of the Chamber very well and also share...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u179	Mr. Markuszower...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u180	And since I share that concern, Mr President, I am sorry to finish my sentence. I have also taken the actions I have done, with the support of the Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u181	That amount of 600 million times three, if I understand correctly, intrigues me, too. It is my observation that it is very difficult to distil these amounts properly from the budget. My first question to the Minister is, therefore, whether it is possible for subsequent years to include budgeted and realised sums from the past, so that we, as representatives of the people, can compare better. Now, in my view, only 2014 is mentioned as real, but not the budgeted amount. My second question concerns specifically the 600 million over the last three years. What was budgeted for ICT three or four years ago when this project started? In this debate, we have mainly talked about the major issues, with great words about democracy and the rule of law, but not really about the amounts, about taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u182	For that, of course, I can only refer to the budgets of the National Police. For the sake of clarity, Mr Markuszower: the National Police has its own budget, which is an independent part of my budget. Of course, that information has been in there for the past few years. I don't have it ready. It is now about the 2016 budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u183	The amount of 1.8 billion over the last three years could not be taken out of that separate budget, I say quickly out of my mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u184	I can't confirm that either, because I don't know. But one thing is for sure when you look at the assignment that was there in the field of ICT. There were 26 separate systems of the 26 old corps, which did not communicate with each other, which were not jointly accessible and on which no innovation had been applied for some years. Transforming it into what is now, and what is not yet ready, has of course been a huge operation. Of course, money has been spent on this. I also think that makes sense. Let's be real. If we are to be able to keep pace with cybercrime and cybersecurity in the future, we will have to invest much more in it. That won't be a surprise for this Chamber either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u185	But my question is twofold. Firstly, I would like to hear what was initially budgeted and what was spent afterwards. Secondly, I would like to know whether it is possible to make clear in the 2017 budget what is budgeted for all routes, including in recent years, and what has ultimately been spent in real terms. It seems to me that the Court will be able to assess precisely how taxpayers' money was spent up to the euro.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u186	Allow me to ask Mr Markuszower for further clarification. Is that what he wants with the National Police? I can distil that out of the budget for him. That's no problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u187	The specific question is about ICT, but while I am still working on this interruption, I ask for a broader understanding of all aspects. That would be good for all ministries, by the way. I find it very difficult to see what was budgeted a year or two ago and what was spent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u188	I can't see that right now. First of all, I'm not about other ministries. Mr Markuszower is actually asking me to apply a new fiscal system only for ICT.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u189	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u190	I want to end this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u191	But Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u192	Mind if I finish? We have a very long debate today. It is a very interesting debate. The Minister has answered the question of how much has been spent in the past at some point and how much it is now and how much you cannot get out of it. It seems to me that we should leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u193	As a result, I have more information for Mrs Duthler in particular. In the case-law Council, the total budget for ICT is around 80 million. This leads to 10%, including the KEI programme. With the National Police, that's 12%, including the Dispatch. So the ICT costs of both organisations are basically the same, as I have just been given. Mrs Duthler asked me last, would I like to look at alternatives to funded legal aid? I am very pleased that she has asked that question, because she sees not only on my stick horse, namely the application of mediation, but also on innovative opportunities to further improve access to justice. We know that through the Dutch Bar Association there is a pilot running for forms of no cure, no pay. Of course, I follow such alternatives carefully. That pilot is there for a reason. Of course, I'll take the results with me. For the Wolfsen Commission, it is specifically about funded legal aid. In the report of the Wolfsen Committee, as far as I have been able to see so far, quite an alternative was thought. That is exactly the point I want to make against Mrs Beuving. The report offers many leads to look at legal aid in a very new way, especially at ZSM. There is a completely new set-up of the Legal Loket and there are quite different proposals for first-line legal aid. I am going to look at this very carefully because I really think that I should do justice to the Wolfsen Committee on this point. I'll come back to this. Mrs Duthler asked if she understood correctly that I am highly combative in relation to my entire budget. I'll confirm that. As the Minister for Finance and I have said to your Chamber, we do not rule out the prospect of challenges for 2017. There is no other way, as I said to Mr Engels. I will, together with the Secretary of State, make every effort to combat this problem. Mr Engels said that he was disappointed because the government did not appear to have implemented Mr De Graaf's motion on the preparation of the unbundling of Security and Justice. There is no government agreement that the government has authorised or ordered to do so. There is a motion in this Chamber which states that we must get to work on it. That motion was not supported on the other side in similar terms. This makes it extremely complicated to prepare it, in anticipation of a possible policy of a possible next cabinet. However, I can make it more willingly consider how much it costs to change it in the current situation. That wouldn't take a long investigation. Mr Engels wouldn't want that either. I am quite prepared, given the motion, to give an overall view of what its consequences would be. I'll also see what it means to break the criminal justice chain we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u194	That in itself is a very pleasant statement from the Minister, one of many today. I would like to point out, however, that I do not find it so interesting at all whether the House of Representatives wants to take over a motion from the First Chamber. We are two separate chambers with their own responsibilities and their own positions. Also a First Chamber has a controlling task. It therefore has all the powers that the Lower House has. If a motion has been passed, the cabinet will have to do something about it. If you are going to carry out that investigation, I would advise you to explain to the Chamber how, on the basis of that investigation, you intend to implement the motion in whole or in part. Then the Chamber may consider the reaction of the government to the motion of the Chamber. The Lower House has its own things, I'd say. That seems difficult enough to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u195	I agree with that view. I will send such an initial thought to the Chamber before the summer of next year. In it, I will explain what it would mean. I will also take up the question of whether or not this should take place in a new coalition agreement. I come to Mr Engels' motion on letter L. I say openly that I am getting into a bit of trouble because I have listened very well to and understand the sense of the Chamber. I have heard Mr Engels say that he understands very well that we want to do our own research, but it is already clear to the Chamber that we need money in the future. Mr Engels says that he understands that as a minister I have to have material and substance in order to be able to conduct the discussion. As I promised to Mr Pechtold, I will be able to do my utmost in the debate on the spring note if it appears that my budget requires additional money to meet what I believe my department should be able to meet. I say that I will do what I have to do to ensure that my department and all the implementing organisations can do whatever we want them to do. I ask the Chamber to support me in that. She already has. It has expressed its concerns about this in a broad sense. I consider these concerns to be support in the back. The motion tabled by Mr Engels is, of course, very different from the texts tabled in the House of Representatives on which I left the judgment to that Chamber. With note one, I am already very happy, so thank you for that. Two states that the proper functioning of the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary is not yet guaranteed. The problem is that I am doing research to establish that, as I have indicated. I simply cannot support that statement. It is then said that the spring note requires a second structural supplement to this effect. I cannot accept that, because I would anticipate a conclusion which I have just indicated that I want to achieve very carefully. On the basis of these two observations, I am then urged to minimize the existing risks, deficits and inadequate performance. In itself, I agree with that conclusion. Of course, risks and deficits need to be minimised. That's exactly why I do what I do. I have also promised that, as a minister, I cannot, of course, accept that there are risks. I'll always do everything I can to minimize risks. I have been trying to convince the Chamber of Parliament all evening long, just as I succeeded in doing so in the House of Representatives, may I say that it may appeal to me that I am prepared to do as much as possible and to do as it expects of me today. I cannot leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber, because the motion can be interpreted by me, my colleague and my colleague in the Treasury as a claim that goes beyond what was agreed in the House of Representatives. That Chamber explicitly referred to the investigations through the Kooiman motion about the National Police. That is why I must discourage this motion in this form.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u196	I understand what the Minister is saying. I understand that there has been consultation with the Minister of Finance. I would like to make it very clear that the motion does not seek to make a claim. I would then turn to the atmosphere of the debate that has not been there. So let me be clear. From everything the minister says, a great commitment speaks. This Chamber can be very pleased with that. I would like to say to the Minister and to my fellow Members that this motion really wants to express the same thing. With the motion this Chamber wants to make a ruling, because we have seriously discussed the budget with each other for a reason and the Minister has heard how the Chamber looks at the budget very broadly. The Minister is supposed to be able to say: in view of what has passed, I can have this motion adopted. She makes no claim and is not a plus on motions from the House of Representatives. She has a very different approach. Perhaps that is not quite well expressed in the wording, but we want nothing but to support the Minister in his struggle to do everything possible to achieve that result in the Spring paper, if necessary and if necessary, through investigations and negotiations. That is ultimately the essence, purpose and intention of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u197	I am very pleased that Mr Engels still gives that further exegesis, but I still have a problem. The text of the motion has become very different from Mr Engels' explanation. Can I make him the suggestion of holding the motion? After all, spring isn't that far away anymore. If I have complied with the request of the Chamber in spring and sent all the information I wish to have to the Chamber, Mr Engels is free to put the motion to the vote on the basis of the facts. I don't know if that's customary in this Chamber, but that might be a charming solution. The motion may be there, but it will not be put to the vote. It will send out a clear signal from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u198	In this Chamber, too, we know the phenomenon of motions being held. In that respect, there is no obstacle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u199	Maybe it's conceivable that I might reflect on what the minister said? I will see if I can reword the motion on one part in such a way that, before it is put to the vote next week, the Minister will not be able to read a claim in any way. I understand that his colleague always looks at things differently, but he can say to him: this is really meant to be a good support in the back, and so should you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u200	Well, then I guess it's obvious we're gonna start the conversation. I always like being willing to do that. The Minister's willingness to consult with politicians will also be one of the themes of the debate that will take place tomorrow. Let me just say this, because we have only recorded once again in the Acts that it is quite common to do so. I suggest that Mr Engels and I discuss this with each other. Then we can see if we can come up with a text on which I can inform the Chamber in writing that I can leave the motion to the House's judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u201	The Minister is now doing his utmost to approach me in everything and make it almost a two-unit. However, my proposal is that I make an attempt first. After I have made that effort, I would be happy to inform the Minister by means of channels, but I would prefer to do it myself first in a political group and possibly with the other signatories of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u202	And not in the department.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u203	Certainly not. However, the Minister knows how that works nowadays. The meeting took place here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u204	That's right. I took good note of that. For the sake of clarity and for the sake of the Acts, I would like to say that with today's state of affairs I must discourage the motion, with everything I have said about it. I very much appreciate what Mr Engels then said in response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u205	Will you be able to finish at about 10:30?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u206	I'm gonna do the best I can, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Beuving has asked further questions in a number of areas. I replied to the questions on ZSM and legal aid. Mrs Beuving also asked about housing costs. It's a long story. In 2016 we talk about past windfalls in the Rijksvaastgoedbedrijf. These results from lower maintenance costs, efficiency and lower interest rates. This positive result and the higher equity capital for the Rijksvoestgoedbedrijf will be paid out once to the departments in 2016. This is different in 2017 and in subsequent years. With effect from 2017, rental rates shall be reduced. This means that, for the purposes of the caselaw, the Council also has to pay less to the State real estate company for the rental of the buildings in use. This also applies to all services with housing costs at the Rijksvaastgoedbedrijf. In order to finance the necessary expenditure in the budget letter of 20 November, it was decided to focus the benefits of the rent reduction on the department. Among other things, the 20 million and 25 million are structuralally financed for the Council of Ministers for Justice. In return, the Court of Justice will also have lower rent costs in 2017. These lower rental charges are part of the negotiations on the price agreements for the period 2017-2019. In the end, these negotiations should affect the reduction of rental costs in the Council's budget for justice. Those negotiations are ongoing. I am not getting ahead of that, but I would suggest that, bearing in mind Mrs Van Bijsterveld and hearing Mrs Beuving's concern, I inform the Chamber if these agreements with the Council of Justice have come to an agreement. Then I will pay attention to this particular aspect. Mrs Beuving also asked about the reserves of justice. There are two reserves in the Council for the case-law. I think it's important to explain that. At the end of 2014, own funds plus the equalisation reserve together amounted to 80 million euros: 58 million for the equalisation reserve and 23 million for own funds. In the multi-annual plan, the case law concerned only the development of own funds and did not include the equalisation reserve. The Board estimates that own funds will be exhausted by the end of 2015, in particular through the necessary investments in KEI. Just for those investments, I added an amount of 20 million in 2016 and 25 million in structuralally from 2017 onwards to the contribution to the justice system. The development of the equalisation reserve therefore does not include the Council in the case-law of the multiannual plan. Through that reserve, the higher or lower inflow of cases is settled. If the inflow is lower than last year's funding, then there is money left to add to the equalization reserve. If the inflow is higher than financed, money must be withdrawn from the equalisation reserve. The Council now estimates that the equalisation reserve will be empty by the end of 2016. Whether this is the case depends on the development of the influx of cases in 2015 and 2016. The caselaw expects a higher inflow than is financed. That is the starting point of the multiannual plan. On the other hand, I expect the inflow to be lower. For civil and administrative matters, I base that very simply on the revenue of registry rights in 2015. They're lagging behind the estimate. The number of cases in 2015 and 2016 is demonstrably lower than estimated. For criminal matters, I must refer to the report of the independent expert who validated the multiannual plan. It's based on the criminal justice chain monitor again. The PMJ estimates will be added in the spring. This means that we cannot now draw definitive conclusions on the status of the Council's reserve, own funds or equalisation reserve for the case-law. Mrs Beuving also asked whether there have been shortcomings in the case law. They haven't turned out in themselves. There are therefore still reservations, but the multiannual plan is the use of the case law for price negotiations. I explained that. We will conduct these negotiations with the Council in a very careful, good and constructive manner for the case law. Mrs Beuving then said that she was not satisfied with the answers on the role of the Public Prosecutor in the care sector. I heard her say it was about the Hoekstra Committee, but also about the security houses. They are expressly on the Hoekstra Committee. It is essential that the Public Prosecutor plays an important role in the security houses because of the confused persons, as well as the ggz, as is one of the opinions of the Hoekstra Commission. Mrs Beuving then spoke about youth, family and morals. For a moment, I couldn't quite tell what Mrs Beuving meant by that. Perhaps she could explain that further? Then I can answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u207	I am referring to issues such as domestic violence and what falls under this broad heading. I think that is much more than what is covered by the Hoekstra Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u208	Domestic violence is indeed not part of the Hoekstra Committee. For example, we have the project Safe Home. That's very topical. There is a lot of investment in this and much is being done, including by the Public Prosecutor's Office and the chain partners. I would like to be careful to always designate the Public Prosecutor as the sole person responsible. It is a very important project that is also very necessary. We all know that the number of domestic violence reports is huge, especially in terms of weighting. That's what the National Police are doing with the state's attorney's office. They weigh when to act and when not. That is essential, because it is not always good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u209	Short, Mrs. Beuving!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u210	The reason why I asked for attention to be paid to the area of punishment and care and why it is broader than what is covered by the recommendations of the Hoekstra Committee is that the Pechtold motion mentions a number of new tasks. This task is not mentioned and I just wanted to draw attention to it. It seems clear to me that this does not cover everything, despite the fact that some of them overlap with the area of the Hoekstra Committee. This should be on the minister's retina for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u211	That worked very well, for which I am grateful. Indeed, I do not regard the Pechtold motion as a exhaustive list, but as a question of whether all the additional tasks that come with the Public Prosecutor's Office, for example with regard to refugees, terrorism and so on, still fit into the budget. That is how I interpreted Mr Pechtold's motion from the House of Representatives. I am very sorry that we did not change our minds with the PVV group. I have tried very hard, but I thank Mr Markuszower for his kind words to my address and that of the Secretary of State. Mr Ruers reiterated that the concerns widely shared in this Chamber were also expressed by the SP. I'm confirming that. I will do what I have promised in relation to the gap between the Council for Justice and the workplace. I will discuss this with the Council in the way I promised Mr Ruers and other spokesmen. He asked me to endorse Mr Tjeenk Willink's opinion. He will understand that this is not the case, because then I would have to pursue other policies. Nevertheless, I greatly appreciate that Mr Tjeenk Willink wants to share his vision from his knowledge and expertise, albeit not recently as a judge, with society. Mr Ruers called for a debate on the state of the rule of law. If I'm invited to that, I'll be happy to be there. I note that there is no support for Mr Ruers' idea of a parliamentary inquiry into the rule of law, but instead of that debate. I've told you how I feel about that. The same applies to the statements made by Mr Tjeenk Willink. I thank Mrs Strik for seeing, seeing and confirming that I am doing my utmost to implement the Strike motion. I have already said that it is extremely difficult, but we are doing our utmost to see if we can ultimately shape those protocols. She asked if I did not want to wait too long and I would like to invite her to join me in the Crusade. I confirm in her direction what I have already said to Mrs Van Bijsterveld, namely that the reports and analyses will be with the Chamber in time for the debate to take place. That's about the spring reports. Mrs. Bikker says she's not free of concern. I think that is a common thread that can be drawn through this debate. In all sincerity I can say that I am not free from worries either, but I wonder if you ever are in this position. One thing is certain, and that is that I fully support her suggestion that a budget should be sober, stable and directional. I'd love to take that triple from her. She asked about the cash drawer and the justification for it. If Mrs Bikker appreciates that, I will give a further written response to that. I'll do that to show you exactly how that works. I do indeed accept the challenge of sending the Law on Prostitution to the House of Representatives as soon as possible, so that the novelle finally gets out of here. I accept that challenge and I had already advanced a long way with it. I thank Mr Van Dijk for his statement and for his understanding that I cannot make a commitment. He then said that he had understood me correctly that I am insisting that the money be made available. That is a little too enthusiastic, but at least I agree that our society is partly shaped by the Jewish-Christian standards and values, as Mr Van Dijk has described. I think I have answered all the questions put by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u212	Mr. Chairman. I do not have any questions to answer in the second term, but I do have a motion, for which I am going to stand and say that I cannot support it. I do not recommend Mrs Van Weerdenburg's motion because, in my opinion, there are still many ways forward before you should consider such measures at all. These would harm us at least as much as they do good by closing borders. We are working to limit the influx to make it feasible, but closing the borders would not relieve us of the obligation to examine asylum applications. It would bring a lot of disadvantages.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u213	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-9.u214	Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. We shall then vote next Tuesday on this bill and on the motions for resolutions.
