ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber and in the public gallery, and in particular the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, who is here to defend his budget. Eight speakers have spoken for this debate. They have themselves indicated how much time they want to use for this purpose. The first speaker in today's debate is Mr Van Raak of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. Saturday we celebrate the first lustrum of the new kingdom, but where's the party? Not on Bonaire, which has been part of the Netherlands since 2010, but is going to hold a referendum in December to get rid of us again. Nor is it a celebration at Statia, where the leaders have already gone to the United Nations to get rid of us. Moreover, these are administrators who serve many interests, but not the interests of their own people. I'm sure it'll be on Saba on Saturday, because on that beautiful island there's always a party. But when we see how much money, how many people and how much good will we invest in it, we have to conclude that too little has been achieved in five years. There is still too much poverty among too many people. There is no other way to do that, because three small islands in the Caribbean are run from ten major ministries here in The Hague, where there are people who have a lot of understanding of laws and rules, but little touch with small-scale Caribbean government. Is it a celebration in the other countries of the Kingdom? At least not in Aruba. That country will be autonomous for 30 years next year, but it is also bankrupt and it will not be able to get on top of it itself. While politicians here and there babble about supervision and clues, problems grow on the island. The bill will eventually have to be paid by the ordinary people on Aruba, who are often already having a hard time. It's definitely not a party on Curaçao. A prime minister disappeared there recently and no one knows why. Another former prime minister is on trial there for taking money from the underworld. The island is politically and economically divided. Foreigners enjoy their tax-free wealth, but the poor people see no future. About Curaçao still hangs the shadow of the murder of Helmin Wiels, who was killed after he wanted to work on tackling the underworld. Which brings me to Saint Martin. In the ports the yachts are shining in the sun and enjoy a paradise life, while young people in Back Street do not see an honest future for themselves. Too many of them choose crime. On St.Maarten, the smallest country in the Kingdom, parliamentarians get the most money, but they also seem most prone to bribery and constantly changing sides. Partly because of this, the country does not have one, but two governments. The governor doesn't want a new election. In my opinion, that can only be decided by the governor at the request of the Kingdom Government. I would like to know the following: did the Minister advise the Governor to hold elections and, if so, why? Is it true that the Governor of Saint Martin has been advised by the Vice-President of the Council of State in the Netherlands, who may later be able to play a role in assessing the whole process? In 2010 I stood here so often and warned that surely St.Maarten was not ready to become autonomous yet, but the Labour Party, D66, CDA, GroenLinks and ChristenUnion wanted it with all the violence. That is why we must now do what we should have done before 2010. The islands only have a future if they are rid of the wrong money and the wrong politics. In April, all the parties in this Chamber adopted a proposal from me and colleague Bosman for a large-scale investigation into the underworld and the upper world in Curaçao and Saint Martin. The Minister has made available EUR 22 million and 55 detectives, for which I sincerely thank you. This is gonna be a painful surgery without anesthesia. If we follow the wrong money, much can come out: wrong entrepreneurs, including bad entrepreneurs from the Netherlands, wrong politicians, wrong advisors and wrong accountants. Can the Minister promise that a proper and independent investigation will be carried out and that nothing will be covered up this time? I very much agree that we need to cooperate as much as possible here with the people on the islands, but not if this is at the expense of the research. We will not now have to look at good relations and vested interests, but we will have to free the population from an underworld that colonized the islands five years ago. After all, as long as the wrong people here have so much power, there is no future for the ordinary people on the islands. For one of those ordinary people I would like to ask for more attention: a blogger on Saint Martin who does a lot of good work to expose the relationship between the underworld and the upperworld. He is constantly being arrested and intimidated at the moment. We are in the Kingdom a rule of law. This also means that anyone who stands up for freedom of the press and democracy must have a good and fair trial and a good lawyer. Such a person should not be constantly intimidated. Does the Minister agree with me? Does he agree that we must maintain the rule of law within the Kingdom and that this also applies to Saint Martin? I look forward to the investigation. I have a lot of expectations of that. I hope it's a serious investigation. Finally, I am very interested in the views of the Minister on that investigation. Is that what we're gonna do with the population? Yes. Is that what we're gonna do with the drivers? As much as possible. In any case, we must ensure that, after five years of malpractice and error, people on the islands finally have a fair future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u3	I ask Mr Van Raak how long the SP still wants to silence the Dutch citizen. The SP always defends the situation that the Dutch citizen has nothing to say about whether or not we should continue with the former Antilles.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u4	I think this is a testament to Mr Fritsma's guts, but also to his incredibly stupidity. If anyone here in the Chamber has always defended that everyone should get a vote in the Kingdom, it is me. I would be happy if the people of the Netherlands would take part in that discussion. I'd love that. But Mr Fritsma also knows that we once conquered and colonized the islands. We cannot leave the Kingdom unilaterally. I do agree with Mr Fritsma that this is a remarkable situation, especially if this is to last forever. But this is the situation we're in right now. I have made a proposal in the past with Mr Bosman to change that. We proposed that the present Kingdom be abolished and made a commonwealth based on equivalence, where we are no longer responsible for abuses on the island, but, if the islands need it, we can help on our terms. Those are healthier, better proportions. We have put forward concrete proposals for this, so do not come to me with this kind of talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u5	That's a lot of words to cover up reality. The reality is that Mr Van Raak defends the situation that the Dutch citizen has no control over whether we should continue with the Antilles or not. The SP keeps saying that it wants to continue with this marriage, but it always forgets to mention that it makes it a forced marriage for the Dutch citizen. Any proposal to give back control to the Dutch population is torpedoed by the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u6	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u7	So don't touch me with words like "stupidity." It's with Mr. Van Raak. It is very simple: I call on the SP to finally give the Dutch citizen the control he deserves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u8	Is that your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u9	Yeah, that's the question. Once again, the SP defends the situation that the inhabitants of the islands...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u10	You're welcome to make your own contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u11	I'll finish with the next question. The SP always defends the situation that the inhabitants of the islands can unilaterally cancel the ties, but not the Dutch citizen. That should not obscure Mr Van Raak. He has to be honest about that. If Mr Van Raak finds it fair that the Dutch citizen...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u13	... has nothing to say...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u14	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u15	...he has to say that honestly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u16	Thank you very much, Mr Fritsma! I still don't hear a question mark, but Mr Van Raak might.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u17	What is Mr Fritsma doing here with an unheard-of bullshit! What basement has he been locked up in over the past few years to miss all the debates in the Chamber? He should take part in a little debate sometime. Then Mr Fritsma can hear the position of the SP. The position of the SP is very simple: the present Kingdom is not working. What else does Mr Fritsma want to hear? The alternative is to move to a different form, a form of commonwealth in which we cooperate on the basis of equivalence with the islands and we are no longer in the pinching corset of the Kingdom. So get rid of the Kingdom! We are in favour of abolishing the present Kingdom. What is Mr Fritsma doing talking about the fact that we do not want to give the people a voice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u18	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr Van Raak. I give the floor to Mr Bosman of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u19	Mr. Chairman. I'm starting something else. I recall that the Kingdom exists for 200 years. Looking back we see that a lot has changed at that time. When I look at the future, I know that much more will change. I wanted to say first: over the next 200 years, but I read in the newspaper that the minister is thinking more of 25 years. That seems much more realistic to me. On both sides of the ocean, we are seeing increasing awareness of one's own role and independence. And yes, Dutch too would like to be independent. As everyone will remember, the VVD and the SP have issued a note based on the vision of an independent commonwealth of independent countries as an alternative to the current Statute, a statute that is perceived by many as oppressive and restrictive. But as long as the Statute is in place, we will follow the rules of the Statute. I split my story into two parts for the Caribbean part of the Kingdom: one part Bonaire, Saba and Saint-Eustatius, the other part Aruba, Curaçao and Saint-Maarten. I start with the BES: three totally different islands with different ambitions and different forms of governance. The smallest of the three is Saba. I pay tribute to the inhabitants and the rulers of Saba. They are working to make this pearl shine further. The drivers make the island better and more beautiful at the service of the inhabitants. Things are in order, both administratively and financially. That deserves respect. Bonaire is heading in the same direction, although the problems there really are of a different and larger nature. I hope that the new board of directors will take things forward and that it will be able to bring about the financial and administrative order, because Bonaire certainly needs some further steps. Housing must be built and roads constructed. The Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment has 12 million available for roads. That is a fine amount, but I will give it to the Minister. I shall press him to the heart that this should not lead to the construction of a four-way highway with frost-resistant zoob equipped with hectometer poles and an occupationally sound guardrail and centre-line. We have seen too much of that now. Buildings in which a heating has to be installed to heat the building to 20 degrees Celsius. It's never getting colder. It's never getting colder and more of that kind of raving. I would like to hear from the Minister whether the islands will be able to fill in these projects themselves, preferably with a lot of local staff that will provide work and a future for the people on the island. Saint-Eustatius is the main concern and then mainly administrative. This is a matter of inappropriate administration. What space does the Netherlands have to intervene to ensure the well-being of the residents of Statia? At what time does the Minister expect a solution to be found on Statia? That can't happen soon enough. Then there are the remaining three countries. When I look at the countries, I see huge similarities, some positive ones, but others certainly negative ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u20	I have a question about the BES Islands. I find it very special to hear a spokesperson from the VVD argue against the construction of a four-way highway. I'm happy about that. I see something of green right here. That aside. The VVD group can be annoyed by a not well-equipped building. There may be examples of this. What I find much worse, however, is that there is poverty and a level of provision that we would never accept in the Netherlands. We accept that in the Caribbean part of the Netherlands. How the hell is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u21	We have agreed that the Caribbean part is another part of the Kingdom. We have also agreed with all of us that the level of provision there is and is determined within the Caribbean. You can't translate this one-on-one. There is also a reason for this and it has been accepted by everyone. However, we are dealing with the problems of hopelessness. This means that you have to provide work there: there must be work there. We might be able to build four-lane roads with zoob where one can drive 130 km/h, but that does not help the locals. The question is whether you need Dutch technicians from the BAM and I know a lot of what kind of companies have to bring in there to build such projects in two weeks, or just have to buy a nice machine for that money and train twenty local people to get started with it. This will improve both infrastructure and employment, and thus the position and future of these people. So I think it is much more important to talk about work, about what we can do from the Netherlands to improve the position of people there and to link them to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u22	Mr Bosman is right to hold the directors responsible for their policies. We also do this with directors here in the Dutch part of the Kingdom, so that is entirely right. Mistakes are made there. But what is really not right is to put them at a disadvantage of minus 10 and tell them to work up to the level we have here. Facilities such as plumbing, poverty, housing are of a completely different level there. How can we accept that? We say they are part of the Netherlands, but not quite. Is it fair to hold them that responsible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u23	I'll turn this around. Bonaire is a place where people want to live their own lives. You hear more and more voices say: The Netherlands, stay out of it for a while. We can then call from The Hague very boldly that their level of provision should be exactly the same as what we have in the Netherlands, but those people want to just live, have maintenance and ensure their way of life in a certain way. We come there with rules of procedure and rules for the height of the sockets in the houses we build there and for the heating that has to be in them because it never gets colder than 20 degrees, but we have to ask ourselves if we can save the people there with that kind of thing. There are now very good agreements, such as the multiannual plans with the island authorities. That's what I think is crucial. These are steps taken by the locals. I think they should be given much more room for manoeuvre as soon as it is administratively and financially in order. I really don't think we should give Statia any more space. Saba I give much more space than the others. Bonaire's really in that direction. Now a few positive and certainly negative agreements. The positive agreements are that there are more and more independent institutions in the countries that dare to look critically at the action of the government, whether it is the government or the states. That is good, that gives room for debate and critical reflection. Unfortunately, the critical reflection often does not go beyond the statement of the institutions. The States of the various countries are, if they come together, the least critical at the moment. The governments are not questioned, or the ministers simply do not appear. Questions from the opposition are not answered or hardly answered. The mud tossing between the islands has been elevated to a capital K "Art" on the islands. The letter from an Aruban party is an example of this. It contains a lot of text about why the other party is guilty, but the author forgets to mention that during a debate members of his party showed a picture of the MEP group leader and myself, indicating that this group leader was a traitor. I don't want that kind of situation and disrespect to be allowed in this house. If you follow the newspapers, you sometimes see very critical pieces about colleague Van Raak and myself, sometimes at the inappropriate. But where are the critical questions to one's own government, to one's own party of states, about inappropriate governance and unspeakable behavior? There's no budget investigation to see what's going on. Why aren't journalists in the countries asking questions? The press, and especially the independent press, is just as important an institution for democracy as the States. During each IPKO, the Interparliamentary Kingdom Consultation, the Caribbean States point out that there is a democratic deficit in the Kingdom: the countries do not sit in the Lower House at the time of the vote on the national laws. But the democratic deficit is not in the Kingdom, it is in each of the countries. The countries must first resolve the democratic deficit in their own country before they can speak of a deficit in the Kingdom. Administrative stability remains a concern. Sint-Maarten is due to his fifth cabinet in five years. We can also do some of this in the Netherlands, but this is done with the animals. I get the impression that everyone on Saint Martin should one day become State Member, Minister or Prime Minister. That is, of course, also a way of providing everyone with a good pension. In Curaçao, the Prime Minister left. No one has any idea why and by whom he has been sent away and a debate in the States is certainly not taking place. I assume the press is on top of getting the bottom stone up as long as the States leave it. Finance remains a major concern. I do not share the positivism of the CFT, especially when I look at the Courts of Auditors and the Advisory Councils of the various countries. They conclude that the States are not given an opportunity to understand the budgets. If they get insight, they won't do anything with it. That's where the problem lies. The democratic deficit lies on the islands. I do not think that the Minister's answers are clear and that the loans that the countries receive and take up are actually being used for the purpose for which they have taken up. Can the Minister say once again that this relationship between loan and purpose is clear, including for the countries taking on the loan? The largest neighbouring country in the Netherlands is Venezuela. Things aren't going well in there. Do the countries themselves have the capacity and the will to map and monitor the flow of migrants, whether or not they stay? Is it possible for them to cope with the flow of migrants, and if not, what can we do about it? That's what I'm asking the Minister. Finally, I would like to come to the next point. The Council of State's information on how to draw up indications is clear to the VVD. There is no condemnation, although some parties and media in the Kingdom want us to believe it. It has been clarified how carefully we should deal with clues and certainly with the role of the governor. I support that, but as long as Article 43 (2) places the responsibility of the Kingdom and thus de facto at the Binnenhof in The Hague, the VVD will be very closely involved in the developments in the countries and, where necessary, encourage the government to intervene. It would be much better if we could assist each other in a commonwealth of independent countries on a voluntary basis, without the obligations and associated control, but that is something for the next 25 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u24	Mr Fritsma, could you put it a little shorter than your previous question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u25	It's possible. It turns out that more than three quarters of the VVD voters want to get rid of Aruba, St. Maarten and Curaçao. My simple question is whether Mr Bosman wants to deal with that and arrange for that goodbye as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u26	I think Mr Fritsma has missed the last debate and may not have read the own-initiative paper very well, because we really have that ambition. We are also taking the corresponding steps, but the VVD also wants to enforce the international conventions. We are in this for a reason. In this way we can take steps to achieve independence from the countries, including the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u27	The international agreements which Mr Bosman is referring to make it impossible for us to get rid of these islands. That can only be done with the agreement of those islands, and of course that will never happen. I would therefore ask Mr Bosman to put that paper reality behind him, and to listen to the Dutch citizen who wants to get off the islands, because he is here for that citizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u28	Mr Fritsma misses the developments in the countries themselves. I think it's even more important. In the countries, it is increasingly apparent that people want this independence themselves. They no longer want the supervision and control of the Netherlands. I think that is a positive development. I'd like to join in on that. I think this is a much more sensible road than the huge conflict model of the PVV, where you are really nowhere to go internationally. The PVV can call very tough in the Chamber that she will arrange it, but in the end nothing will come of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u29	I have a question on the subject which the spokesperson of the VVD was the last to address, namely the information from the Council of State to the Chamber on the instructions given to the governors of the countries of the Kingdom. Mr Bosman talks about the democratic deficit on the islands. This request for information shows that there is also a democratic deficit because there is no dispute settlement. Can Mr Bosman respond to the words of the Council of State on the fragile position of the governor?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u30	I think I have taken that into account. I said the governor's position is very vulnerable. I think that's essential. I endorse that. I think that position is important. That position is very special within our order. We have to deal with that carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u31	Those are very nice words, but what do they mean for the way in which the governors have been treated so far? What about the clues given to the governors? I will give Mr Bosman some help. I have two examples. The governor had to keep a budget, which he couldn't do at all. He may determine the budget or send it to the Kingdom Government. This didn't happen. The task of the designation was to keep the budget. Another example is that the governor was granted new powers, namely the screening or investigation of cabinet candidates. These are two concrete examples on which the Council of State is quite clear: there has been no action as it should have been. I can see that Mr Bosman is already finding it very difficult. Then let me deal with him a little bit. The Council of State says that the position of the governor, which Mr Bosman speaks of with delicious, clear words, has been made much more vulnerable with these indications. I'd like to get a reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u32	Mrs. Hachchi already weakens her question and that's nice. The point is that we're all looking. We can also say that we will apply Article 43 (2) everywhere, and then we will take firm action. However, we are looking for a way to achieve good governance. How can we get to the least far-reaching form of clues? How do we do that in the most precise, surgical form as carefully as possible? How can we prevent us from sketching here the picture that the government in The Hague is taking a big hit and thus settling the matter? The issues mentioned by Mrs Hachchi are vulnerable, but I believe they are still within the scope that existed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u33	Had I been twice already?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u34	Yeah, twice, and for a long time. Mr Segers, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u35	Another point in the opinion of the Council of State concerns the role of guarantee and the designation of a designation. The Council of State says that the guarantee function is not intended as an instrument for the country of the Netherlands to oversee the administration of other countries of the Kingdom. So it shouldn't be the case that a clue gets over if something doesn't suit you. We've had an increase in the number of clues, as well as some very serious incidents. The Council of State says: "Oh, is that going to be okay?" What does this say to the VVD Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u36	I don't know if the Council of State said, "Oh, are you okay?" I do believe that there is some seriousness in the problems that lie ahead, as Mr Segers clearly points out. The problems are solid. We may not have intervened for too long and have perhaps for too long been reluctant to do what should have happened. I think we should let go of that restraint and say, okay, if things go wrong, we should name them and do something with them. I am only pleased and satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u37	Does Mr Bosman agree with me that a clue is an incredibly blunt axe and that it is a crude tool for an sometimes manageable problem, or a problem that you could have solved in another way? And does it not all the more stress the need for a dispute settlement? Isn't it a looming mistake in connection with our meeting? In other words, isn't it high time we looked at this again and reviewed our relations in this sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u38	No, the looming error is in the Staff Regulations and in Article 43 (2). In this way, the guarantee function will lie with the Kingdom, thus de facto with The Hague. This creates an unequal relationship within the Kingdom, and we must all accept that. There will be no equality; there will be equality, but there will be no equality. That's the problem we have. Take the financials. If Aruba went bankrupt, The Hague would be billed. As long as the pass-through function is there, you always have an unequal relationship. Then you can say: we have to go as evenly as possible. I agree, but the consequence of Article 43 (2) and the guarantee function is that sometimes intervention is necessary. Mr Segers calls it a blunt axe, but Aruba's finances have been bad for a long time. This has been discussed for a long time. The first reports of integrity and crime problems at St Maarten are already known to me from 2008, and perhaps even from before. So it's not like we suddenly come up with all sorts of things. No, but it is now time to move forward, so that after 10-10-2010 we will really take steps towards a different kingdom. And I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u39	Mr. Chairman. We are actually discussing this budget a bit at an unfortunate time, because on Monday we will get a report on how it might have to proceed with the way in which we are connected. So without Mr Fritsma asking me a question, I might be able to answer: we need to take a very close look at the opinion and I am not getting ahead of it today. I would like to draw attention to a few other points. For example, we are very concerned about the fact that many refugees are also turning to the overseas territories of our Kingdom. We are talking about boat refugees from Venezuela and Colombia, at the moment not to be misunderstood. We are very concerned about this, as are the United Nations and the Red Cross. I do not really hear enough about what this government and the Kingdom Government want to do about this. What steps do they intend to take to see how the problem of refugees can be contained in the overseas territories and how it can be dealt with in a decent way? So we want to know from the government what is being done. I have already said that cooperation is under best pressure on certain points, especially when it comes to finance. We do believe that important steps have been taken. If the supervisor says it's going better, who am I to say it's not? At the same time, as soon as the governments move in, you will see that there is enormous intimidation and a complete drama in the democratic system. I would like to know from the Minister what he wants to do about it and how he can be a significant partner of the governments of the countries when they really stand back against the wall. Coffins are being placed outside for statesmen. That's really from the barre and it can't be. The debt problem is enormous. We have asked the government several times and I do so again: can we find a way to ensure that the governments of the other countries can borrow in the same way as the Netherlands can? They pay huge interest; there is a lot of money in it. Why can it not be considered whether this can be done under the same conditions as in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u40	That is interesting, because I think we have a very good agreement with Aruba, the White Thursday agreement. A number of conditions have been set. If these conditions are met, a loan is not a problem. Is that what Mrs Van Toorenburg means?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u41	I understand that the rate of interest is still a problem, and not just in Aruba. The Dutch government pays little interest when it borrows. That's where people pay more. What can be done about it? Earlier, Dijsselbloem didn't want that. We need to see what we can do. Indeed, an appointment has already been made, but it is not yet ideal. That is why I shall refer the matter back to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u42	The Minister of Finance wanted it, but he had made certain conditions. It's called the White Thursday agreement, for instance for Aruba. This means, among other things, that the budget must be in order for a number of years. Does the CDA now say that it doesn't matter if it's all out of order, just give them that cheap interest rate and let the budget the budget and then we'll see? Or does the CDA say that there must be some sensible budgetary technique in Aruba before you can borrow so cheaply?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u43	I think it's somewhere in between. I can see that important steps are being taken, but I do not think that the problem will be solved if you allow people to pay a huge 'killing' high interest rate. I do not think that the Finance Minister has been generously addressing the countries. I'm sorry to hear that. I think it's a missed opportunity. I am sorry that banks and other companies are getting rich and that we cannot simply see if it can be solved in a better way. Once that question has come up again, I think it is very decent to refer it back to this government. We have already discussed the dispute settlement and the position of the governor in the debate on the interruption. We, too, believe that we really need to take steps to improve this matter, especially now that the Council of State has expressed itself in no uncertain terms that this dispute settlement must finally be brought about. What are the steps that this government is taking to ensure that it actually happens? Mr Van Raak already indicated that it is walking with Saint Eustatius a bit of a bar. I understand that the UN has now been used to re-enter the list of colonies, because it feels treated as such. How's the Minister handling that? What are we going to answer when, through the United Nations band, a country says: we feel like a colony? What steps are being taken in relation to Saint Eustatius? Even if it is something that concerns another ruler, I think that education at Bonaire is so important that I would like to mention it here today. A very critical step has been taken because the administration of a school community in Bonaire has been sent home. The education inspection has been very strict. I want to know what the solution is. This is about the future of children, and I think it is important to draw attention to this. We are working internationally on the Millennium Development Goals. Many major Millennium Goals are about poverty, care and education. I see that many of these Millennium Goals are also concerns in the Kingdom, especially in the overseas territories. Can we ask this government to ensure that decade targets are set? In view of the cooperation within our Kingdom, a good start has been made on the Convention on Children's Rights, but I believe that more goals can be set. If there are millennium goals within the United Nations, I would like to have decade targets within our Kingdom, to take a step in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u44	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party is proud of what we have achieved in the last two years of social progress in the Caribbean Netherlands. The Labour Party has made a particular effort to promote child support for all children, as of next year there will be an active approach to domestic violence, the rejection of any form of violence against children, additional poverty reduction, capacity strengthening through the transmission of experienced managers, EUR 3 million for the implementation of children's rights plans and the intensification of the fight against trafficking in human beings. I would like to thank all the parties and spokesmen who have also contributed to these results. I want to thank the cabinet and this minister. Over the past few years, the cabinet has made enormous efforts to achieve progress and has looked favourably at the above mentioned PvdA plans. Moreover, the cabinet has done much more: new schools, Youth and Family Centres, an extensive hospital, more and better care, especially on Bonaire, better education, especially in primary education, more integrated neighbourhood approach and investment in the economy of the islands. In addition, the Minister draws hard on the implementation of the multi-annual plans, the children's rights plans and new initiatives such as a fast boat connection between the Downwind Islands. We congratulate this Minister and his colleagues on these results. The Labour Party considers it important that we continue to achieve this kind of result and that prosperity is increased and distributed more fairly. The PvdA stands for a society and a kingdom in which we hold on to each other and make progress together. In the Netherlands and in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom, if we share honestly, no one needs to live in poverty. We have more than enough prosperity to make good provision for everyone. Unfortunately, there are still plenty of challenges. The Labour Party, together with all those of good will, continues to look for the small and great steps we can take to reduce poverty, bring child rights closer, improve governance and bring that fair society closer. We also want to take a few steps in this budget debate. We have already asked the Minister to identify the areas where the islands and islanders are being treated unnecessarily in particular. We expect to read a lot of about this in the evaluation presented next week. As far as the PvdA is concerned, people will no longer move abroad if they go to Bonaire, you can just have a Dutch marriage there and we strive for as many equal rights and rules as possible. Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba have become part of the Netherlands. The inhabitants must be able to count on the same rights and provisions that we believe are justified in the European Netherlands, unless there is a very good reason to do otherwise. The Labour Party wants to take the following steps in the discussion of this budget: better houses on Bonaire, longer maternity leave in the Caribbean Netherlands and an affordable boat connection between the Upper Wind Islands. Many houses on Bonaire should be declared uninhabitable. They just don't fall apart from misery, but children grow up in houses where they shouldn't be living. The cabinet also recognises this in the multiannual plan for Bonaire, but does not pay enough money to clean them all up. The PvdA believes that this will require at least EUR 5 million. What's the Cabinet's assessment? Where does the Minister think the necessary resources can be found to clean up all the bad houses? Women are given 12 weeks maternity leave in the Caribbean Netherlands and not 16 as in the European Netherlands. What exactly is the ratio behind this deviation? Is the recovery of a childbirth on Bonaire going faster than in the European Netherlands? Did mothers on Saba care more about their child? Are men on Saint-Eustatius so actively involved in their babies that mothers need less time for care? I don't think so. Mothers are hard enough in the Caribbean Netherlands and they need as much leave as mothers in the European Netherlands, and so do the fathers. We ask the Cabinet to change this as soon as possible and to give parents in the Caribbean Netherlands the same leave period as soon as possible, and always to keep it that way in the event of changes. The Labour Party wants to go to six months' leave for both parents throughout the Netherlands. I mentioned earlier the initiative to arrive at a fast boat connection between the downwind islands of Bonaire, Curaçao and Aruba. We thank the Minister for his efforts and we look forward to the fact that we will no longer have to wait endlessly for the airport when we visit the lower winds, but can just drive the boat up and down. Is there any progress here? On the upper wind islands of Sint-Maarten, Sint-Eustatius and Saba there is no possibility for such a fast boat connection. Saint-Eustatius doesn't even have a boat and the boat to Saba is expensive and slow: 100 dollars must sometimes be paid for a trip of less than two hours. Would it not be appropriate to allow the inhabitants of the islands to leave the island regularly? In the European Netherlands, we also have affordable public transport. On Saba and Saint Eustatius there is extreme transport poverty, even with a car you can't get anywhere. We ask the Minister to investigate whether it is possible to set up an affordable boat connection between the islands, where it is possible for less than $10 to go to another island. For example, the Labour Party imagines that once a month a boat is rented that takes a lap along the three islands in the morning and in the evening. What possibilities does the Minister see? As I said, the Labour Party wants to remove unfair differences between the Caribbean Netherlands and the European Netherlands. I therefore ask the Minister once again to make an inventory of all the laws and regulations that are unnecessarily different from the social standards we have in the European Netherlands, if this is necessary in addition to the work of the evaluation committee. It is not a question of conscious deviations because of the unique nature of the islands, but of inheritances from older legislation, for example those from the Netherlands Antilles, for which there are actually no good grounds anymore. The shorter maternity leave is an example of this, but we fear that there are many more examples to be found.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u45	I am grateful for this commitment by the PvdA Group, because it is indeed not fair to say 'you are part of the Netherlands' and at the same time not to explain how to maintain inequalities between different parts of the same country. At what time should these differences be levelled? If we make an inventory and find that houses are in an unacceptable state for our country, how long will we bring them to a level that we find acceptable here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u46	A number of things have already been included in the multi-annual plans, so they will be improved in any case within five years. You're gonna have to look at it very much per case. For example, maternity leave is a matter of amending the law and this must be possible within a year. This should be settled on 1 January 2017, but other matters will take longer. We don't do house refurbishing in a year. Bonaire already has some budget available, but that is not always used up. There's just limited capacity on the island itself to set up that kind of thing. So you will have to look very carefully at what they can handle, what the taxable capacity is and where the resources are available.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u47	Of course, public funds are always scarce, but we are talking about unjust and inexplicable differences within the same country. Then it may cost money, and then it may cost money. Can budgetary cuts be the last criterion for speeding up or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u48	Maybe "the last criterion" is the right wording. It weighs, of course, but it should hardly do that. My answer would be: we need to get rid of these differences as quickly as possible. In any case, it must not go on the way it has gone on so far. We've been one country for five years. Bonaire, Saba and Sint-Eustatius belong to the Netherlands, but almost nothing has been done about the houses there. The same applies to the roads, because almost nothing has been done about them either. We are holding each other prisoner in administrative discussions about whose responsibility it is, where the budget is, who has to do what and what requirements it has to meet, but it is simply not being addressed. That is what we and other parties are missing: we simply cannot tackle problems. That needs to be broken, and I think that breakthrough needs to be deployed here. There has been support for this in the Chamber for some time now. I think we've been talking about this for a year in a way that's a little more powerful than before. We really need to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u49	I agree with much of what Mr Van Laar says, especially when it comes to combating poverty and offering people a future there. I also always see in the budget that there really is a lot of money going to Bonaire, Saba and Statia, but far too little has been done in the past five years. Three small islands in the Caribbean are run from ten major ministries here in The Hague, which work side by side, do not feel good and are really good at everything except in small-scale local government in the Caribbean. Shouldn't we also look at these structures, because we've lost a lot of time, a lot of energy and a lot of money to things that don't matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u50	The Labour Party has long been in favour of one coordinating minister coordinating all work towards the Caribbean Netherlands. The reality of The Hague is, however, unbearable. Each minister wants to keep his own budgets. There are parties in this Chamber who do not want to do so; look at your great friend Mr Bosman. They don't want that. They want each ministry to keep its own line. We've already given the National Representative a new position. It's much better between all those lines to pull it all together. The multi-annual plans are a step forward, but they can certainly be improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u51	I will turn Mr Bosman upside down if that is the case. Does he have a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u52	...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u53	I think you should just finish your question, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u54	I'm afraid if we put another coordinating minister on top of it, we're gonna get another layer of government. Should we not consider whether with the money available, with good local supervision from the Netherlands by people who understand not only laws and rules, but above all the practical solution of practical problems, much more can be done if we allow those islands to do as many things as possible themselves? Again, there is guidance and support from the Netherlands, but there is much less happening from The Hague and much more from the islands themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u55	We support that thought. The Dutch Caribbean Office should do the same: form the bridge between local government and the Hague government, with people who are in touch with both. You prefer to use the knowledge and experience of people from the islands who, for example, have lived in the Netherlands for a while, studied, maybe worked for a ministry and then went back to the islands. That's the model. That's the way it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u56	The picture was briefly sketched as if the VVD was before the administrative disorder. As I have pointed out in my speech, we also believe that countries that fulfil administrative and financial responsibilities should be given increasing self-control. That has nothing to do with maintaining the departments. There will then be money that they can spend on their own. So the VVD doesn't stand for administrative disorder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u57	As far as I know, the VVD is not in favour of a coordinating minister for the Caribbean Netherlands who draws and coordinates all the budgets of the ministries. If the VVD is in favour of that, I'd like to hear it. We shall then table a motion tomorrow to record it and put the government to work with it. We are in favour of reducing the problem with all the ministers who have their own males on the islands that all work side by side. We really hope to be able to do that. From the information provided by the Council of State, we conclude that the designation given to Aruba was legitimate. However, the Council of State stresses the need for a dispute settlement. The Labour Party considers that the outline of that dispute settlement, as agreed during the last Interparliamentary Kingdom consultation, should be the starting point for that settlement. If the islands accept that the Council of State is the appropriate body to play the role of mediator and referee, as he proves time and time again with the information about the instructions to the governors, and the Dutch Government accepts that judgments are binding, then a dispute settlement must be quick. Before the summer, the Minister asked for a few months to reach that agreement. Is that agreement now within reach?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u58	When discussion arose about the Kingdom Government's action on these indications, the PvdA, together with the VVD, stopped an information request from the Council of State to clarify this. Fortunately, we now have the information request. This request for information says more than just the very clear language about the dispute settlement. One of the points that is clearly highlighted in this report is that I cannot summarize it any better than Professor Van den Berg, a fellow party member of Mr Van Laar, is that a cannon was fired on a mosquito. Does Mr Van Laar share this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u59	No, I don't share that. We also did not prevent the Council of State from giving its opinion, but rather that it would play a role in the conflict with Aruba. The Council of State does not yet have that role, so we wanted the conflict to be over first and then information to come. The request for information was lodged with the Council of State for six months before that information was received. It is good that this did not happen during the conflict, because it would have been stretched for a very long time and it would not have been resolved. I do not believe that a cannon was fired on a mosquito because Aruba is in fact bankrupt. The Council of State also clearly states that you must intervene before the calf drowns. That text is even literally in that letter. The calf was drowning very badly and it's not anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u60	Mr Van Laar, as PvdA spokesperson, is behind the Minister. The Minister, too, in the media, we will of course hear him refer to that sentence tomorrow: you must not dampen the pit before the calf has drowned. The Council of State is very clear in its request for information. He clearly indicates that your article 43 is about that guarantee function, only when you've gone all the way. It is a so-called "ultimum remedium." That did not happen in this case. And I am not even talking about the governor's point, which I have already addressed with Mr Bosman's input.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u61	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u62	It would be a good thing for Mr Van Laar to respond to the criticism expressed in the request for information rather than hiding behind the Minister's back, because I can tell him that I can really see him standing behind that back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u63	I think I'm right here. I don't see a minister standing in front of me. I'm not hiding behind anyone. I say what we read in the Council of State's request for information. It clearly states, and I will quote it literally, that the Kingdom Government can give guidance to the governor, in particular to research and temporary measures aimed at combating or preventing situations which may lead to intervention under Article 43 (2) of the Statute. I hear Mrs Hachchi saying there are more quotes. That's right. I can also read the whole letter, if that's what Mrs. Hachchi wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u64	No, that's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u65	Aren't we gonna do that? Okay. So the clue was legitimate. It could, it had to and the powers for it are there. Mrs. Hachchi says there was still a possibility. For years there has been a correspondence between the Dutch government, the National Council of Ministers and Aruba, about budgetary agreements, about targets that should be met and about improvements that should be made. If Mrs Hachchi could call me a year in which Aruba has fulfilled its own budget, I would immediately agree with her and say: yes, that island can get its own budget itself. However, that has never happened. The deficit is always higher than budgeted. If you calculate it, it always turns out to be much higher than the island itself had already calculated. That really is a situation where we say that intervention was necessary. The deficit in the year of intervention was 9.4% of the national budget, i.e. almost 10%. You can say, "Well, we'll let it go and see if the island does it itself," but that's not how we got married. Unfortunately, the PvdA also thinks it's time to start preparing a new lead. The pollution around the Isla refinery is becoming increasingly alarming. The health of residents has been affected by pollution for years, but emissions seemed to decline. However, there is no question of a decrease. The Isla makes the people of Curaçao sick. That PvdA asks the Minister to start exploring whether there really is no national redres to curb the Isla. Is politics, for whatever reason, really not capable of enforcing its own laws and regulations and forcing Isla to reduce its emissions? Does the inactivity of Curaçao politics go so far as to choke its own population? Then the moment the National Council of Ministers guarantees the soundness of the administration in Curaçao is getting closer, isn't it? Isn't that right, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u66	This is a special moment. I'm going to defend the drivers in Curaçao, because they deserve it. Once the Isla refinery went to Curaçao for 1 guilder from Shell and got it for a billion in pollution for free. Of course, the Curaçao government can't solve that. Of course, it was very stupid of the Curaçao government to buy it over, but she didn't have much choice. Does Mr Van Laar not agree with me that we need to look much more at trade union K, that is to say, at the Dutch Government and possibly also at the Government of Venezuela and not at the Government of Curaçao, which cannot do so much about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u67	This is about the daily emissions of that refinery. Now it turns out that there's, among other things, vanadium in these emissions, which causes cancer. The Curaçao government has itself set laws, regulations and emission standards. That government can simply maintain those standards if it wants to, after which the company has to make the necessary filters and adjustments to meet the standards. That's the point. That is very feasible. What you then have to do with the refinery in the future, who are involved and how to clean up the damage from the past, are very important questions that have been going on for 20 years. But that must not prevent us from calling on the Curaçao government to take responsibility for bringing emissions to an acceptable level. 'Cause that refinery doesn't do that on its own.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u68	Then I understand Mr Van Laar very well and then we understand each other very well, because I very much agree with that. Since 2004, the SP has been calling attention to this problem and for more than ten years now the government of Curaçao has been failing hopelessly here, no matter how much money and how many people and resources we send. We are very much in agreement on this. But yes, I have often said in the past: if we take this poisoning of entire urban areas seriously, then it is also a matter for the Kingdom and SP and PvdA will have to ask the Kingdom Government to intervene. If we take it that seriously, we will also have to intervene in the context of the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u69	Now we are all in agreement again. Curaçao has been successful in not doing this for ten years. We are now asking the Minister to explore whether there is really no longer any national redres available. Make a deal, start that dialogue. If it shows that the Curaçao government is really not doing anything about it in a period to be determined, then the National Council of Ministers must intervene. That is exactly what we are asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u70	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u71	Finally, the administrative challenges in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. I have already promised to spend as little time as possible on this, because the PvdA considers social progress to be much more important. Unfortunately, bad governance often hinders social progress. That is why I would like to say a few words about this. We support the approach of the Minister and the State representative of the crisis on Saint Eustatius. There is no place in the Netherlands for boyfriend politics, bullying and intimidating officials and financial malpractice. We ask the Minister not to shy away from calling the leaders responsible for this misery, which makes any progress on the island impossible. If this requires new legislation, the PvdA is prepared to deal with it as a matter of priority. We ask the Minister to continue to support the authority and all others of good will on the island. For the past five years, the board of St.Maarten has been working on itself alone. If new elections are to be held, it is of the utmost importance that they be conducted fairly and transparently. We ask the Minister to make the most of this. The purchase of votes and seats must come to an end. The largest party in Curaçao has sent its own prime minister home and an interim prime minister has been replaced. In Aruba, political relations are now so messed up that there are shootings around the states and parties are blaming each other for that. Sometimes we lose heart. No politician seems genuinely concerned with the interests of the people. However, every time we work, we encounter so much positive energy and hope that we must never give up the courage that progress is possible. Despite the criminals, the wrong politicians and all the difficulties in the relationship between us, we must never give up, because the challenges are too great. We therefore hope that there will and will be sufficient goodwill in this Chamber and in the Cabinet to continue to take steps. Better housing, equal leave, good connections between the islands, a cleaner Isla and better governance. It's possible, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u72	I have another question about the Isla. Maybe there'll be elections in Curaçao soon. It could be that during these elections parties say: we would like to keep the Isla open. Those are elected representatives. If these people choose to keep the Isla open in relation to employment and economic strength, who are we here in The Hague to say: it must close?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u73	I was not talking about closing the Isla, but about the standards that the Curaçao government itself has set for emissions from the Isla. She won't hold the Isla to that. That's a matter of enforcing your own rules. Whether you are capable of doing so is a question of sound administration. Because those rules are there to protect the people. So if you fail to protect your own population from these emissions, you have to ask yourself at some point whether it should not be a Kingdom matter. We have been pointing out for some time that the moment when the Kingdom Government has to intervene is very close. With the contribution to this budget, I would like to make that even clearer. It concerns the daily emissions of the Isla refinery and the standards set by the Curaçao government itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u74	Can Mr Van Laar then tell us how he sees it? Are we gonna take over the board or are we just gonna come in with the inspection service? How do we maintain that from the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u75	We're gonna have to look into that. If we can give a country an indication that the budget has to meet certain standards, we can do the same for the control of a refinery. We know how to do that. I myself visited the Shell refinery in Pernis last year. They were very proud of the fact that emissions were so reduced. At some point I asked where all those straight lines came from. Those were the dates on which the emission standards were adjusted. So they just meet the emission standards when they know they have to meet them. However, they do not comply if they know that the government is turning a blind eye after all. If we keep our eyes open, the Isla refinery will meet the standards. I'm sure of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u76	I have a question on this point, the Isla refinery. I too am glad that, after looking at this problem for decades, the PvdA and more parties in this house really want something to happen. Mr Van Laar talks about intervention from the Kingdom on this point. I understand that he says in the first instance that it is about emissions from the Isla refinery, but does he mean that the Kingdom Government intervenes and thinks about the solution to clean up the damage caused to man and the environment by the refinery?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u77	The future of the Isla refinery is indeed a much larger subject. This will take place in the elections and a decision will have to be taken in the coming years. It is initially on the island itself. We've been saying that for a long time. Above all, the population must also be concerned about the consequences that this has for them. One has to be heard and one is doing so more and more. Demonstrations are increasing in size and activism is also increasing. That is very good, but ultimately it will be decisive what plans the parties put forward and which party will receive electoral support for this. As long as it is done in a democratic and good way, you cannot make it a kingdom issue at once. However, if we fail and citizens become victims of decisions that have been taken for the wrong reasons, we have to look at them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u78	I don't think the answer is getting any clearer. The protests have been there for decades. Clear signals have been sent from the public about what the Isla refinery is doing to people and the environment. Can the PvdA spokesperson state clearly what his question is to the Minister when it comes to intervention from the Kingdom at the Isla refinery? On the one hand, it is about emissions and the need for Curaçao to comply with environmental standards. On the other hand, I hope that includes the big story. Shouldn't the empire government, together with Curaçao, consider this in order to solve the problem once and for all, and clean up the mess?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u79	You don't work together with a clue. If Curaçao wants to work together and if the Kingdom Government wants to play a role, the government must be invited to do so. The government has repeatedly said that it is open to this. Help and support can be provided with each request for advice. The Minister has already mentioned this in previous debates, and we support it. This is about the government failing to comply with its own emission standards. On this point, the government in the National Council of Ministers will have to explore whether there really is no national address and whether the country is really not able to maintain those standards. If that is not the case, there will have to be a clue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u80	Mr. Chairman. This budget treatment is always a great déjà vu experience. We discuss the state of affairs around the former Netherlands Antilles and have a new laundry list of financial disasters, corruption cases and crime every year. Despite all this misery, it's just muddying through. This is, of course, due to a failing cabinet, but it is also mainly due to the lax attitude of the Chamber. In this Chamber any serious intervention is made impossible. Every now and then there are complaints, occasional demands for measures, and every once in a while it is even said that it can't go on like this. However, it never goes through; everything gets bogged down in words without meaning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u81	Mr Fritsma really needs to pay more attention. I have made a concrete proposal in this Chamber, together with Mr Bosman, to abolish the present Kingdom. The Kingdom will then no longer exist and to see how we can proceed with the islands. I do not know whether Mr Fritsma participated in that debate, but what is he talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u82	I was present at the discussion of that note. The Minister even confirmed at that time that this plan would not be possible without the agreement of the islands. That's exactly what this is about. The Netherlands and the Dutch citizen have nothing to say about the connection with the islands. Mr Van Raak knows that, but perhaps he is too cowardly to acknowledge that the SP Group does not want to change that either. I'll stick to the facts, Mr. Chairman. The core of the problem is a UN clause which states that the Netherlands has nothing to say and should not unilaterally break or change ties with the islands. I will get to that in a moment, but that is at the heart of the problem. If the PVV wants to tackle that UN clause, then the parties present here do not give at home. The same applies to Mr Van Raak and Mr Bosman. At the heart of the problem is a UN clause stating that the Dutch citizen has nothing to say. The Chamber applauds that UN clause. That is at the heart of the problem, and Mr Van Raak knows it. That is the worst thing: Mr Van Raak knows...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u83	Mr Fritsma keeps talking. His proposal to hold a referendum in the Netherlands to get out of the Kingdom is, of course, completely silly, because he just said that it can't make any difference. So he wants to put a question to the Dutch people, organise a referendum, I am always very much in favour of this, but he knows in advance that we cannot meet this, precisely because of the UN provision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u84	Yeah, that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u85	Now let me finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u86	Now may Mr Van Raak, Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u87	Mr Fritsma is not just talking; he is also talking through my interruption. I have supported Mr Fritsma in the past in proposals to see whether we can get rid of them in any way whatsoever, and whether this is going to last forever or not. That is why Mr Bosman and I have also made this proposal. We do not want to be in the tight ties of the Kingdom forever. However, I would particularly like to call on Mr Fritsma to do his homework better and not just to sell chatter here and to repeat it three times.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u88	When I come here, I come up with facts. The PVV has previously tabled a motion whose operative part is: "calls on the government to ensure that the Netherlands is no longer bound by the UN provision indicating that our country has no right of self-determination and must not unilaterally break ties with the former Netherlands Antilles." And what does the SP do? It's voting against. In other words: Mr Van Raak is pleased that the Dutchman has nothing to say about the ties with the former Antilles. He should be ashamed of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u89	We have made a concrete proposal. Together with Mr Bosman, I have put forward a concrete proposal to get out of the tight ties of the Kingdom, whether it be the UN or not, which does not matter. This is a way out. It's a way to get rid of it. And what does Mr Fritsma do? He does participate in debates, but apparently he has no idea what this is about. He's telling me the fourth time I keep adding up the same story. I think we should keep the debate a little up-to-date here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u90	I just said I like to stick to the facts. I just read the operative part of a motion the SP voted against. Mr Van Raak says here that there is a UN provision that makes it impossible for the Dutch citizen to have a voice. He acknowledges that, but he dares not acknowledge that the SP does not want to get rid of that UN clause. So, in other words, the SP is just holding us hostage in the situation that we're stuck with those islands. That is at the heart of the problem. Mr Van Raak is trying to deny it and is too cowardly to admit what his party actually wants. That's too bad. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u91	I'm gonna give you one more chance. I have a feeling the two of you aren't quite coming together here. I would ask you not to keep challenging each other, otherwise we will not get past this interruption. This is the last chance. Go ahead, Mr. Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u92	For the fifth time, it's the fifth time! I say to Mr Fritsma that we want to get rid of it! Mr Fritsma says we don't want to get rid of it...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u93	Then why are you voting against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u94	Mr Fritsma!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u95	We do want to get rid of it!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u96	You can now for the seventh time...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u97	Go ahead, Mr. Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u98	I do not mind Mr Fritsma's talk, but he must do so in his own time and not when I am speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u99	Mr. Van Raak!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u100	For the sixth time, therefore, I say that we are opposed to this and not only that we are opposed to it, but also that I have made a concrete proposal together with Mr Bosman. So yeah, is Mr Fritsma gonna tell a story for the eighth time or is he just gonna keep a serious story?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u101	Even if Mr Van Raak comes forward for the hundredth time, it doesn't change the situation that the SP has indicated that it doesn't want to get rid of that UN clause. Mr Van Raak sighs and groans and supports, but he cannot change the facts. Unfortunately for him. I would just admit if I were him: sorry, SP-chooser, but we failed; sorry, SP-chooser, but you don't deserve a vote, because we think that UN Charter is more important than control for you. But Mr Van Raak is too cowardly to indicate what he really stands for here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u102	Mr Fritsma and Mr Van Raak, this is the only way forward. That's what I just said. You keep adding the same words. Each time I must give you the opportunity to move forward, but I do not see you getting closer in any way, nor do I see you changing the words you say. We can read it: every time I see the same thing. Mr Van Raak, I must now give you the opportunity to make a personal statement, but I do not want you to have a debate with Mr Fritsma anymore, because you have tried that six times without you getting any further. You can make it a personal fact that you are approached in this way, but you can no longer engage in debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u103	I'll try. I do not know whether it is the eighth or ninth time, but Mr Fritsma constantly says that I find something when I constantly say that I do not think it is. In fact, I made a concrete proposal on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u104	That has now been noted as a personal fact. Mr Fritsma, I would ask you to go further, because you cannot respond to a personal fact anymore. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u105	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll move on. Unfortunately, new money and new opportunities are being signed for the islands to find out for the umpteenth time that it has not helped, that nothing has changed and that it is still a big mess in the Caribbean part of our Kingdom. Here, too, the fake parliament, a parliament that has elevated paps and wet keeping to true art, a parliament that does not represent the Dutch citizen and considers his interests irrelevant. I have to repeat it: it is even so bad that all the parties here, except the PVV, think it is perfectly normal that the Dutch citizen should not even have influence on the question of how to proceed with the former Antilles. This fake parliament therefore puts the Dutch citizen out of play in advance. Control of a very important issue is taken from him or her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u106	Well, it's the new hobby to call our parliament a fake parliament. I would like to point out for the Acts that people may have an opinion here, but that I do not support this remark in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u107	This is not your input either, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u108	Mrs. Hachchi.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u109	Thank you for the explanation you have just given, Mr President, because I too was surprised when the chairman of the PVV group spoke of this Parliament in this way. Apparently, the other spokesmen also have the nerve to use that kind of language here. I have the following question to ask Mr Fritsma, who is of the facts. I notice there's a competition here who wants to get rid of the islands the hardest. But there is one fact: the people on those islands are also Dutch. What is Mr Fritsma talking about when he talks about Dutch citizens or when he even uses the term 'Dutch'? The people on the islands are Dutch too!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u110	That's right. When I speak of the Netherlands, I mean this country. Mrs Hachchi knows that Saint Martin, Aruba and Curaçao are other countries, although within our Kingdom, but they are other countries. So I make that distinction, too, because it's there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u111	We are talking about countries, but people live in those countries. These people all have one nationality, the Dutch, whether you live on this side of the ocean or on the other side. When we talk about facts, I would also like to hear Mr Fritsma speak clearly. On what grounds, therefore, does the PVV not make a distinction on the basis of the term "Dutch" and Mr Fritsma speaks about the Dutch in relation to the inhabitants of the islands? Once again, they are all Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u112	Mrs Hachchi should give that to the people of Curaçao, for example. They make a distinction, for example, by making strange demands on the inhabitants of this country if they want to settle on the island, demands that do not apply to their own inhabitants. Mrs. Hachchi is talking about distinction now, but I'm telling her: please go to the islands and explain it to those people. For the sake of clarity, the PVV knows the current situation, but it wants to go to the situation where the inhabitants of those other countries within our Kingdom are no longer Dutch, because it wants to break the current ties with the Kingdom. She never made a secret out of that, did she?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u113	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u114	I therefore ask the Minister, but above all the Members of the Chamber, who they think they represent. By whom do they think they have been chosen, and with whom do they spend taxpayers' money? Why does the importance of a few dysfunctional islands outweigh the importance of the population of this country? The problem is well known. I talked about it about seven, eight or nine times with Mr Van Raak. The UN Charter states that the Netherlands has a duty of care for the former Antilles and that the Netherlands must not, therefore, unilaterally break the ties with the islands. The UN Charter deprives the Dutch of democratic rights. This fake parliament, I keep saying it, Mr President, whether you like it or not, love it, but the PVV continues to hate the fact that the democratic rights of the Dutch citizen are being taken away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u115	Let me make another comment. You are entitled to your opinion, but I want to stand up for a lot of hard-working parliamentarians who take their work seriously in this Parliament. They take part in serious debates, make serious laws, and try to seriously change things that they disagree with and get a majority for in a democratic way. For me, that is the definition of a real parliament. I would like this to be noted for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u116	Mr Fritsma talks about democratic principles. If one party in this Chamber has been elected in no way democratically organised, it is the PVV. So if there's one party a fake party, I think it's the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u117	I'm gonna have to stand up for this, too. The members of the PVV Group were democratically elected to parliament. They took part in democratic elections. That makes it a real democratic party in a real parliament. Mr Van Laar, I would ask you to put these comments in a different context.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u118	I have just said that they are not democratically organised. That is why Mr Fritsma's emphasis on democratic principles surprised me. My question concerns Bonaire, Saint Eustatius and Saba. Those islands are part of the Netherlands, as are the Wadden Islands. We know the PVV as an advocate for good care for all kinds of services that citizens are entitled to. Will Mr Fritsma withhold those facilities from those residents? Does he want to get rid of this or does he just want to get rid of the islands as a whole and then create the same facilities as in the Netherlands as long as they are part of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u119	As long as the said islands are part of the Netherlands, of course, they will be provided with the same facilities. However, we want to move towards a situation in which the islands are no longer part of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u120	So in this budget, the PVV does not oppose the tax money we use to make good provision there. There is no money going to the autonomous countries, that only goes to the Caribbean Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u121	Again, the PVV wants to get rid of the islands. You know how we vote in budgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u122	I am extremely proud of my parliament. I stand for that, too. I think it is extremely important that we are here. And I find it a little presumptuous of Mr Fritsma to say to me that I do not know how to represent my constituents. In fact, I've been chosen to represent my constituents. It is not up to Mr Fritsma to judge this. Coincidentally, the VVD has 40 seats here and is therefore a large party in this Chamber. I represent my people. I stand for my responsibility. The way in which Mr Fritsma talks about this is not all that good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u123	I like to stick to the facts. Once again, I note that there is a UN provision which states that the Dutch, including the VVD-chooser, has nothing to say about how the ties with the Antilles should look like. You're okay with that. You agree with this UN provision, so you are right that even your own electorate should not have any influence on whether or not we should continue with the Antilles. Those are the facts. So you don't represent your constituents. You don't represent the Dutch. You are holding your plan hostage in the will of the islands and you do not want to break out of it. That's too bad, but those are the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u124	Mr Fritsma is always in favour of representing all Dutch. He says: you do not represent all Dutch. No, I'm just representing the part that voted for the VVD. I am very proud of that and I am very proud of it. But the VVD also stands for state of law and for responsibility in the world, something the PVV has a bit more trouble with. We take that responsibility, too, in all areas. In this responsibility we see processes in which we have to take responsibility. Together with Mr Van Raak, I have written a note on how to achieve a new Kingdom. I take with me my constituents, my voters, my constituents and my members. In this way, with that responsibility and rule of law and with all due care, the VVD thinks it will work towards a future for a Kingdom that is different and in which we will deal with each other in a very different way over the next 25 years. We do this carefully, critically, but we do speak with respect for each other. That's different from what the PVV does.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u125	I would remind you once again of the situation... Yes, if Mr Bosman has anything to say, he'll have to come to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u126	You don't have to, Mr. Fritsma. You can respond to what is said at the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u127	Well, if I had to respond to all that yelling and honking here in the room... I'd rather people really come to the microphone and tell me what they want to report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u128	So you don't have to. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u129	Anyway... Again, everyone is running away from that UN Charter, from that UN provision. That is what Mr Van Raak and Mr Bosman do, everyone does. After all, they all signed up for it. None of them want to get rid of it. And this UN clause goes a long way: we have a duty of care ranging from education to the economy, from security to scientific development; we are made responsible for everything. You may have a plan, but even this minister has said that that plan clashes with the UN Charter. That is at the heart of the problems, but not everyone wants to get to that core, unfortunately. However, this does touch a very fundamental point. This is why the PVV has published a survey through Maurice de Hond to see how the Dutchman thinks about this. The results don't lie. 55% of voters do not think it is right that the Netherlands should be responsible for Curaçao, Sint-Maarten and Aruba. Moreover, only 39% consider it fair that the Netherlands, unlike the islands, should not unilaterally break ties with the former Antilles. I ask the Minister to respond to these results and to correct the major error that the Netherlands and the Netherlands have no control over the relationship with the former Antilles. If you want to do justice to our democracy, it can't be too much to ask. Once this first step has been taken, we can take further steps. The PVV wants to break the current ties with the former Antilles. And, of course, with the support of the electorate, so can we. Fortunately this support is there, because the aforementioned survey by Peil.nl shows that 61% of Dutch people are clean enough of the prayer without ending financial maladministration and fraud, and wants to get rid of Curaçao, Sint-Maarten and Aruba.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u130	Mr Fritsma is a self-declared democrat and a popular representative. He represents the people and others don't. At least that's his pretence. This is partly based on a survey carried out among the population, which shows that a majority would like to get rid of the links with the islands. If that is our criterion, then it is also fair to place Mr Fritsma and the PVV along the same bar. Maurice de Hond also investigated a ban on fireworks. A large majority are in favour of a ban on fireworks, but the PVV thinks fireworks are about as important a tradition as Black Piet and that's why it has to stay that way. This would make the PVV an undemocratic party. Almost three quarters of the population are in favour of the European Union, according to the same study by Mr De Hond. Does this understanding of the will of a large majority of the Dutch population also change the position of the PVV on the EU?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u131	I don't recognize that investigation at all. I do know that a referendum on the European Constitution was held once. It says precisely that people do not want the EU at all, so I do not recognise the picture that people would suddenly be for the EU now, as Mr Segers says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u132	That is difficult, when Mr Fritsma hears of an investigation and facts that are less in line with his style. Last year the research was carried out and according to that research by Maurice de Dog, 73% are positive towards the European Union. If Mr Fritsma is a democrat, if he is the only representative of the people, then the PVV's electoral programme must now be changed and the views of the PVV must now be changed. PVVs are the true representatives of the people, they listen to the people. Three quarters are in favour of the European Union. That is why we would now like to change the position of the PVV. It may also be that Mr Fritsma says: we are convinced of something, and that is why we are here, regardless of what a research by Maurice de Hond indicates, regardless of what a majority thinks. That is a deep conviction, and with that conviction we are going to have a fair debate here. That is what a representative of the people does. That's not just a little research popping up when it suits you, and if it doesn't suit you, pretend like you've never heard of it and put it aside for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u133	Of course, it has to be a combination of both. I can still hear Mr Segers say something outside the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u134	Mr Fritsma, just to be clear, only the words spoken by the microphone come from the Acts, and those are the only words you need to respond to. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u135	Our party program isn't 100% determined by Maurice the Dog. Mr Segers cites the example of a ban on fireworks. We may think differently from the survey results. In this case, however, a more fundamental point is touched, namely: can the Dutchman have anything to say about it? That's my point. It cannot be repeated enough that the Dutchman has nothing to say about the Antilles. That is undemocratic and that must change. That's a completely different story than the fireworks ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u136	I wonder where this line of argument comes from. Who invented it? If the voter has nothing to say about one thing, it is the PVV program. Even the PVV-chooser cannot become a member of the PVV. Even the PVV-chooser can't affect the program. Only when the poll comes out will you take it and say that you represent the people and that the rest will not. If that is your view of democracy, we are very far apart from each other. Perhaps you should first give your own electorate influence over your party and only then take us the measure and ask if we take the Dutch voters seriously. We take them very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u137	The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats should take a look at the polls, because it will see that it has virtually no seats left. That should make you think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u138	Is this the whole substantive answer of Mr Fritsma to my question? Really?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u139	You're gonna criticize my party. Then I say, look at your own party first. You can call out whatever you want, but your support is waning. Before you criticize my party, you should think so. I call on the Minister to take the voter's signal seriously and to act accordingly. Unfortunately, the Minister has so far been doing exactly the wrong thing. The money tap remains wide open to the islands. Additional detectives are also sent to Sint-Maarten because of the high crime there. We need those detectives in our own country. Because of the corruption, there will also be a so-called Integrity Chamber, to which Dutch taxpayers also contribute. It's all too much to mention. There is even more than half a ton of tax money spent on a candy trip to Curaçao for 28 officials. That is all a lot of money from, once again, citizens who themselves should not even influence the question of how the ties with the former Antilles should look. So I would also like to hear the Minister's view on this point. I can leave it at that in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u140	Mr. Chairman. 200 years of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, a kingdom with a European and Caribbean part, which has a relationship that is longer and extends beyond those 200 years. We are talking about family ties that do not stop, no matter how hard or tough the language used here is. We are all Dutch because of a shared history. In short, we are talking about 200 years of slavery, 60 years of Antilles and 5 years of the relationship as it is now. On Monday we will receive the evaluation of 10-10-10. The Minister wants to study here for a year. My first question to him is: can he come in six months from now with a response to that report? Curaçao, Saint Martin and Aruba are countries that govern themselves. Only in critical situations and when all other options are exhausted can the Netherlands intervene there. This was discussed last year. Aruba did not have his finances in order and the Netherlands intervened. The governor was instructed not to sign the budget. With this, the rule of law was under pressure. Last year, in the summer of 2014, D66 and a number of other parties in this house wanted an immediate request for information to the Council of State. This was not achieved with thanks to the Labour Party and the VVD, but now we have the information from the Council of State. The Minister sees no illegality in the information of his own actions. "Quick walking, nothing to see" is the message. But I do read clear criticism. The Council of State states that the guarantee function is an ultimatum remedium, a last resort and that the governor has two tastes: he may or may not adopt a measure. There is no intermediate form, such as keeping a budget. Several professors are also not convinced of the government's position. For example, Professor Arjen van Rijn states that the Minister did not read the information correctly, or did not want to do so properly. PvdA'er Joop van den Berg thinks that the information shows that a cannon has been shot on a mosquito. My question is, therefore, where does the Minister's firm conviction come from that everything went well? The Council of State also criticises the designation of Saint Martin for new powers for the governor. I would also like to hear a clear response from the Minister. In short, it is important for the state-law relations within the Kingdom that we learn from this and that such uncertainties no longer arise. We need, at least quickly, a settlement of disputes, as colleagues have already mentioned. We have been waiting for it for years and I ask the Minister: when are we going to see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u141	Last summer, Mrs Hachchi spoke of the indication and said that it might not be justified; she questioned it. She then asked written questions together with her party leader. She got an answer to that. She's now been informed by the Council of State. It would be nice if D66 came to a position at some point and indicated where she is. Mrs Hachchi now raises new questions and talks about questions that others ask, but what does she think? Was the designation lawful or unlawful? After a year of discussion and so much information and information, should D66 be able to answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u142	First of all, let me make this clear. When discussion arose about whether or not the Kingdom Government acted lawfully, it was D66 to clarify. The same applies to the other parties who made the request for information. It was not a question of taking a position on whether or not to be legitimate, but of obtaining clarity. It was about getting rid of that discussion. I think that Mr Van Laar agrees with me that this kind of discussion prevents a solution. Mr Van Laar asks how I read the request for information. I have already said the necessary things by way of interruption. I have three important points to make. Firstly, I refer to the guarantee function in Article 43. The intervention from the Netherlands, from the Kingdom Government, should be seen as an ultimatum remedium, when all other roads have been followed. Secondly, I would like to mention several points concerning the position of the governor. The Council of State is also very clear about this. A governor can't hold a budget. He must either determine it or forward it to the Kingdom Government. That didn't happen. With that clue, he's forced to go against the rules. The Council of State is also clear about giving new powers to the governor. That's not possible. On the third point, the dispute settlement, I have already said what is necessary. In short, I read in the request for information that there are a number of points that can be questioned about the way in which these indications have been provided. I also think we should look forward. That is why I think it is extremely important to hear from this Minister tomorrow whether he is taking lessons from this rather than saying: nothing wrong; we are just going to continue the way we have provided the directions so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u143	On the contrary, the information provided by the Council of State makes it quite clear that the National Council of Ministers may give the governor an indication of how to investigate a decision that is before it. I have just quoted that. I guess I don't have to do that again. This clearly shows that the National Council of Ministers had the right to make that decision at that time. Mrs Hachchi is now apparently saying that the decision of the National Council of Ministers was unlawful for these three reasons. We've already talked about the address. The Council of State says that designation to investigate may be given. And yes, that leads to a later approval of the decision. I wonder what Mrs Hachchi's opinion is based on. Can she state clearly whether she thinks it is unlawful? That is very important for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u144	I call it an ultimum remedium; you do not intervene as the Netherlands until you have walked all the roads. The Council of State has also spoken about the structure of the Statute. The same applies to the article relating to the guarantee function. Both are intended to work together in order to avoid problems. So you should only be able to intervene as a last resort. That's what I'm reading back about the ultimum remedium. I understand that the Council of State indicates that you could question it in this case. I understand that Mr Van Laar reads that differently. However, I have already made the necessary criticisms in his direction by interrupting. When it comes to the governor's point, the Council of State has not mentioned the examples for nothing. I refer both to the investigation into candidate ministers, namely the designation of Saint Martin's office, and to the appointment of the governor of Aruba, who could not then determine the budget. Those are two clear points.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u145	You have made that point before in your interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u146	I and Mrs Hachchi asked for that opinion from the Council of State. I wholeheartedly supported that request because I wanted to know what was going on. I want to know what is and isn't possible. Mrs Hachchi also says with me: The Netherlands has a responsibility when it comes to good governance, the Netherlands has a responsibility when it comes to finance and the Netherlands has a responsibility when it comes to pollution, for example at the Isla refinery. If the Netherlands has so many responsibilities within the framework of the Kingdom, how can the Netherlands fulfil them? How does D66 see it now? How can we fulfil all these responsibilities if we are allowed to talk only but not to do anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u147	I refer to the protected value and the guarantee function in Article 43. We are talking about fundamental human rights and freedoms, legal certainty and good governance. Mr Van Raak makes his own list, but let us keep that clear. The request for information shall also describe what it is intended to do: for that Statute and that guarantee function. I am very pleased to read this in the request for information, and I hope that colleagues will read it in that way. You're supposed to be looking for that partnership in advance. The Netherlands behaves like this so far: either it does nothing, it sits back, or it intervenes at once and then goes with the blunt axe with clues. I don't know which colleague used those words anymore. If we really want to solve problems on those islands, we will have to do so together. Mr Van Raak then summarizes this negative by saying: just talk. However, it has been known for a long time on several islands that there is a shortage of capacity, knowledge and skills in the judicial chain and in the area of finance. Then I think: yes, there were also opportunities to put energy into it together beforehand. That should be the attitude. It's not just chatting, it's mostly doing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u148	Mrs Hachchi is always talking about the Isla refinery, and then there is a need for action. It is therefore screened with security features. I don't quite understand that remark. Does Mrs Hachchi agree that it is precisely her party that has ensured that there is so much uncertainty, that there are no clear responsibilities within the Kingdom and that there are no clear ways to bear that responsibility? Mrs Hachchi's party in particular ensured in 2010 that the political relations we now have are not in order, precisely because the responsibilities are not clear and we cannot assume those responsibilities. Is Mrs. Hachchi willing to look in the mirror and see what D66's responsibilities have been in ending up in this mess?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u149	There is no need to worry about self-reflection. He mentions several points in his interruption. When it comes to the Isla refinery, he'll find me by his side. In fact, we have had several debates on this subject. Fortunately, you can see that more colleagues are done with the fact that we see this polluting refinery there for decades, go on work visits and leave such a neighborhood with a beating head. It is time for us to get involved in this at kingdom level. As far as the Isla is concerned, I think that Mr Van Raak and I are not so far apart. Otherwise, it's when we talk about responsibilities and 10-10-10. In total, within 200 years of slavery, we have had 60 years of Antilles and 5 years of construction 10-10-10. I say to Mr Van Raak: we will soon have an evaluation, but give it a chance. I am not going to repeat Mr Van Laar's contribution, but steps are being taken. In Mr Van Raak's contribution, I have heard that he brought it a bit laughing that islands have also benefited from this construction. I would have stayed with the countries. Aruba has repeatedly asked for knowledge and expertise from the Netherlands about the Tax Administration and about financial management. Has the support been set up? Will it ensure that capacities are transferred so that Aruba will be able to do so itself? At St.Maarten, tackling crime is a major priority. Finally, support for this is now beginning. Now just stop arguing, I'd like to say, and waste it unnecessarily. I'll continue with the Isla refinery. I always have to sigh when I think about that. We have already devoted the necessary interruptions to this. There are harmful emissions across residential areas. In 2005, it was already calculated that at least 18 people die a year; many others have become ill. Curaçao is now looking at the future of that refinery, but I believe that the Netherlands should actively contribute to this. What solutions are possible? What does it have to do with it? How can the economy and employment ultimately be best supported in this respect? Can the Minister undertake to examine with Curaçao whether this problem of the Isla, a human and environmental problem, can be stopped?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u150	I expected a firmer text from D66 anyway. It's been a long time talking, investigating and searching. I think we've been talking about the Isla for a long time. I understand D66 just wants to talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u151	Mr Bosman did not listen carefully. First of all, we all know that Curaçao is investigating the future of the refinery. We have had a debate with the Minister in which he has done the hand-out by saying that he is prepared to speak to his colleague on this matter. I am glad that the Minister did this and did not take the view that it was Curaçao's responsibility and that he had nothing to do with it. I would like us to continue with this and that the Netherlands is willing, in addition to Curaçao's own research, to actively think and interfere in solving the problem. We have been talking about pollution for decades; there is only one motion for a resolution on environmental standards and action in this area, and I support it. However, to solve it completely, to clean up the mess, more needs to be done. This can only be done by the Netherlands and Curaçao together, hand in hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u152	I am surprised at that, because I think Mrs Hachchi says: what is happening now is support for policy. The handouts are from I and M. There are all kinds of different investigations and all kinds of support is provided. I find it extraordinary that Mrs Hachchi is now blowing so high off the tower, actually with policy support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u153	Policy support? I don't know if the minister's standing there or if he's here. Perhaps Mr Bosman has other information, but I understand that the Minister has said so far: 'It is the responsibility of Curaçao. We follow it, and when a request comes, we do something." I ask that we take an active seat at the table and come to solutions. Once again, if there is a motion on emission standards which states that we are going to intervene as a Kingdom, I will be the first to sign or even draw up it. Aruba, Bonaire and Curaçao are close to Venezuela. On a beautiful, clear day, you can even see that land lying there. The political situation in Venezuela is deteriorating. Colleagues have already urged Minister Koenders to come up with scenarios, in cooperation with the islands. Where are these scenarios? Then I get to Bonaire, Saba and Statia. The free allowance is insufficient, but the Minister does not want to look at it for another year. In the meantime, the islands do not have enough money for local investment. Is the Minister prepared to give a ruling on this matter by six months at the latest? The Minister writes that the double taxation of Saba and Statia, on the one hand, and Saint Martin, on the other hand, are mainly a practical problem. Is he going to help Saba and Statia with the information so that the companies there do not pay double taxation? When we talk about the economy: from Foreign Affairs there is an excellent relationship with the islands. Of course, that is what we are talking about: trade, which also benefits the Netherlands. In the meantime, there is a call to place Kingdom relations with Foreign Affairs. This also says something about the relationship with this minister. I hope he will hear me and his ministry. I would like to hear a response to that. The abundance of sun, wind and water offers opportunities for renewable energy. We have argued this before here. In the Netherlands, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has many regulations and subsidies for energy saving and renewable energy. Do Bonaire, Saba and Statia have full access to this and do they know that they can make use of it? Statia is under enhanced surveillance. My fellow Members have also mentioned this. The appointments aren't going well there. It's a really serious matter. For me, it remains unclear what a boycott of work visits will contribute to this. I'd like a response from the Minister. Saba I call because it goes very well there. That can be said. I would like to conclude with the subject of poverty on the Caribbean, which remains very painful and must concern all of us. I have really thought about what request I can make to this Minister. Is he prepared to evaluate existing projects together with his colleague in Social Affairs and, on that basis, to increase the budget? Colleagues have asked the necessary questions about this, and I naturally agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u154	Mr. Chairman. You can deal with family members in two ways. You can keep warm tires on it, and you can have the relationships destroyed. That's a choice. At least what you can't choose within family is not to be related to each other. We cannot deny the relationship between the Netherlands and the Caribbean part of the Kingdom any more than we can deny our common history. History has connected us. If you belong so much together, you better do everything you can to make the relationship as good as possible. That is at least the unabated commitment of the Christian Union Group. The way you look into each other's eyes in relationships at times, so the different parts of our Kingdom will have a good conversation with each other in the coming time. It is five years after 10-10-10, five years after the introduction of the new political relations within the Kingdom. Soon the evaluation report will fall on the mat. Much will depend on the way in which we will discuss it. Are we getting closer or are we moving further away from each other? The Christian Union Group looks forward to that evaluation and to a timely and thorough response from the Minister. As far as our group is concerned, we are holding a debate on this within six months of the publication of the evaluation. Is the Minister prepared to make this possible by means of a timely response? This evaluation will have to be geared to restoring confidence. After all, I have vivid memories of the talks we had in January on the islands on poverty, on the feelings of misconception, on the sometimes belittlement and on the feeling of being a second-class citizen in the Kingdom. We'll have to take care of that. As a Chamber we can also be informed more often and more intensively, for example by organising round tables and hearings more often. In any case, it seems advisable for my group to organise a hearing and discussions on the evaluation report, because whatever we may be accused of later, that should never be a lack of information and involvement. What can restore trust and warm up family bonds is to lavate to what is going well and to work together for promising common goals. I can do better than that. To what extent, for example, do we stand alongside Aruba in its ambition to be the first country to extract all energy from clean sources? Two weeks ago, the Caribbean Trade Mission started in Amsterdam. Several CEOs, ministers, ambassadors and bankers from the Caribbean region were present, but the Dutch companies were missing. What can the Minister do to make our Prime Minister's hopes, namely to do business together, become true? If that succeeds, there is, unlike this year, in the next Throne speech more to tell about the Caribbean part of the Kingdom than just something about integrity issues on the islands. A basis for mutual trust is also clarity about the way in which disputes are settled among themselves. The law must take its course again, instead of the fact that conflicts are pervaded or solutions enforced by the law of the strongest. The big looming error of 10-10-10 must now really be corrected by a proper dispute settlement, because exactly this has broken us up in the past period. Relationships are disturbed, solutions are enforced but on the other side never really accepted. At least I'm thinking of Aruba. If this goes on like this and we only end conflicts per clue, we're gonna be a sour, nasty family. In this light, the last IPKOs voted us hopefully, because the various delegations of the parliaments have agreed on the basic principles of such a settlement. As far as I am concerned, this has only become more urgent after the Council of State's ruling on the action of the Netherlands in the conflict with Aruba. The Council of State itself also notes that Aruba had no choice but to accept the decision. Only an adequate dispute resolution system could have provided alternative options. On the other hand, given his guarantee function, the Netherlands saw no other choice, but it still struggles. It's gotta be different now. What timetable can the Minister outline for setting up a Disputes Committee? Why are no budget appropriations earmarked for the establishment? Does the Minister look primarily and only at the Council of State as the body that is supposed to shape it? Another way to work on restoring trust is to fight poverty. Poverty remains a major problem, especially in the BES islands that are part of the Netherlands. I just said it in an interrupting debate with Mr Van Laar. Why do we accept something there that we would never accept here? Fortunately, family allowances are finally introduced to the BES islands after the vote of colleague Schouten and colleague Van Laar have been taken. It is a long-cherished wish of my group, but how realistic is it to allow this arrangement to enter into force on 1 January? Our group is hopeful about cooperation within the Kingdom, but that does not mean that you close your eyes to what is going wrong. For example, crime is extremely well organized on the islands. There is corruption, abuse of power, self-enrichment and election fraud. Attorney-- General Guus Schram van Sint-Maarten said in an interview that politicians, directors, top officials and other influential people are going against government policy for their own good or for financial gain. Fortunately there will be cooperation between the police of Sint-Maarten and the Netherlands, but is the cold enough to act decisively? I have two further questions on the previous budget debate, namely the Van Laar/Segers amendment, the PvdA amendment and the Christian Union amendment on children's rights. What about its implementation? Could the Minister tell us more about that? Last year, a motion was adopted by myself and colleague Van Laar on research into the extent of trafficking in human beings. How is it possible that the three Caribbean countries are still not getting off well in the TIP report of the US Department of Foreign Affairs on trafficking in human beings, but this Minister concludes that there is no need to investigate the extent of the problem further? Can we not formulate it more ambitiously rather than as a'research'? What will the Netherlands do to ensure that the three countries of child care are promoted to countries with an appropriate approach? Is that the ambition the Minister wants and can make work of?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u155	Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of this year, as a member of the parliamentary delegation, I first met the Caribbean part of our Kingdom. On the one hand, it was an undivided pleasure to get to know the islands and to see the developments there, but on the other hand, the shadows and concerns about the situation and circumstances there also made it very clear to me. The relationship between the Netherlands and the Caribbean is and remains an exciting interplay. I think that the Minister of Kingdom Relations has also experienced this in person during the period under consideration. He must respect the independence of the countries, as long as it is in the interests of the Kingdom, and avoid long toes, but also, if necessary, the countries are behind. This requires a high degree of balance. The SGP is therefore looking forward to evaluating the political structure. Without prejudging the evaluation in too clear terms, we are, quite frankly, wondering whether there has been any real improvement since 2010. Crime and integrity problems are manifesting themselves, on one island even stronger than on the other. Except for one exception, it's problems that play on most islands. Perhaps we should therefore ask ourselves in the evaluation how realistic it is to continue to rely on autonomy within the Kingdom for the longer term as well. In the long term, should we really cut the band with the Netherlands as much as possible? These are questions that should be included in the evaluation of the current political structure. The finances of the Caribbean parts of our Kingdom certainly don't look thriving. You often get the impression that the style of budgeting mainly consists of keeping things running a bit. But of course that does not work in an orderly budget. Such a budget must be properly estimated, and the budget must also be properly implemented. Sint-Maarten has recently received an indication of late payments and a realistic planning of expenditure on pensions and care. This month there should be clarity about the current financial year. Of course that is surprising, because we are now in the last quarter of the year. The question is therefore how realistic it is and to what extent it will have any effect at all this year. In addition, the exciting question is what the perspective is for next year. The tension between the countries and the Kingdom was also highlighted when the governor of Aruba was appointed. The Council of State's information is based on restraint and caution. The SGP believes that sensitivities and risks should certainly be taken into account, but equivalence can also very well go hand in hand with effective constructive criticism. I would like to hear an appreciation from the Minister of how his direction relates to the information of the Council of State. The Caribbean are beautiful parts of the Kingdom, but behind that beauty there are many problems. That is why we asked the Minister last year for a delta plan, an integrated approach to combating crime and corruption. The Minister made a commitment on this, but I do not really remember having been presented with a clear and clear plan. So we still don't have a broad-based plan of attack. I would like to know from the Minister what the state of play is with regard to that delta plan. Finally, can the Minister inform us about the state of affairs concerning the dispute settlement between the countries and the electoral college for the First Chamber? I leave the flow of refugees unnamed. Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Hachchi have drawn particular attention to this and I would like to add to the questions they have raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-6.u156	This brings to an end the first term of office. The Minister will prepare for his answer, and we will hear it from him tomorrow.
