ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-12.u1	I had to see if I had read it correctly, but this general consultation was indeed held on 22 January. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-12.u2	Mr. Chairman. Time flies when you're having fun, they say. It was indeed January 22nd of this year. In this general consultation, I asked, among other things, the Secretary of State for the terrorist departments in various penitentiary establishments to join as much as possible the regime that applies to the extra-security establishment in Vught. An individual regime applies there, so the prisoners have no contact with each other. The Secretary of State promised a letter at the time. We got it on July 3rd. The Secretary of State also said that the starting point is: individual regime, unless. That unless, unfortunately, that letter of 3 July got bigger. The Secretary of State concludes with the words that he wants to apply customization. And then he considers a placement policy to be differentiated according to two different regimes. That leads me to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the strictest security regime does not apply in the terrorist departments in penitentiary establishments;]] [[noting that (suspect) terrorists may have contact with each other in the terrorist department and thus risk further radicalising and/or influencing each other;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to avoid the possibility for persons in the terrorist departments to establish both internal and external contacts in order to minimise this risk;]] [[calls on the Government to increase the security level of the terrorist departments to the same security regime as in the extra-security facility,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24587-621]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-12.u3	Mr. Chairman. I would like to return briefly to the debate on the terrorist departments. The CDA Group can support the Secretary of State's conclusion that this is an effective means. It has been agreed that it would be wise to develop a new departmental instrument, to see which approach suits which inmate best. What is the state of play? Last year there was also a lot of turmoil about the so-called Breaking Measures. The prison system had to cut 60 million extra after the blows of the previous Master Plan DJI. My question is where we stand now. Can the Secretary of State give an update of the available cell capacity and the ongoing discussion within the prison system to reduce even more places? Is it true that many multi-person cells are now being undone and that prisoners are being put back on their own because of falling capacity? Can the Secretary of State give an overview of the cell reduction within all p.i.What do you say? Is this gonna be accompanied by extra layoffs? An up-to-date development resulting from the Breaking Measures is that there is a lot of unrest in the p.i.It's about closing the physical libraries. All physical library functions within all branches are removed to make way for digitisation. Is it true that the group works council has brought a case against the Judicial Institutions Department to stop the plans? The CDA Group and the SP Group are deeply concerned about this decision and the pace at which the Secretary of State wants to work more digitally, threatening to disappear these valuable places in prisons. Digitisation is logical, but it must be implemented in a sensible and phased way. That is why I shall table the next motion on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas facilities for detainees with regard to basic and targeted educational, artistic education and library facilities have a positive impact on prisoners and the living environment within prisons;]] [[Considering that the "Brackish measures" result in savings in prison libraries and that these physical spaces should be completely replaced by digital facilities;]] [[Whereas the group works council and CNV trade group cannot agree with the way in which this process takes place and have serious concerns about the effect on detainees in the event of abrupt breakdown of physical facilities;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for a more phased entry into force, taking into account the above concerns,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Oskam and Mr Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24587-622]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-12.u4	Mr. Chairman. The AO was a long time ago, but I would like to take advantage of this late VAO to ask questions to the Secretary of State on a few points. I will also ask him to do something for me at the beginning of the parliamentary year. Like a number of colleagues, we have asked questions about policy in the terrorist department. As has already been said, the Secretary of State sent a letter to the Chamber on 3 July. Following on from what Mr Oskam of the CDA Group asked, I would also like to know the state of play on the assessment instrument. Chantal, the inmate mother, now also a good friend of this Secretary of State, was the subject of the AO. I am pleased to note that the factsheet I asked for is now there. I would very much like to know from the Secretary of State how the further roll-out will take place. It is now important that no child of an inmate mother, or parent, falls between shore and ship. So I would like an answer from the Secretary of State to the question of how this factsheet is now being rolled out. Finally, at an eventful meeting of Exodus in June, I received a wish list of children of inmate parents, together with the Children's Ombudsman. I ask the Secretary of State to look at this list and consider it in his policy, so that this wish list also becomes a reality for a group of children who are already struggling enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-12.u5	No other speakers have come forward. This brings to an end the deadline on the part of the Chamber. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for his answer and response to the motions tabled. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-12.u6	Mr. Chairman. I will start with a topic that all three speakers have talked about, namely how we deal with suspects and convicted of terrorism and the TA regime. Firstly, it is true that the TA regime is not equal to the Ebi regime. This does not mean that someone convicted of terrorism, for example, cannot be placed in the Ebi regime. So I do not always see it as a replacement; the same criteria remain. If someone, whatever he was convicted of, is eligible for ebi, that will happen. In addition, for people who do not fall into that special category, we have the terrorist department. For me, it is important to keep people who are suspected or convicted of this type of crime separate from the general prison population, in order to prevent recruitment or the spread of radical ideas. In principle, of course, we have an individual regime for this. The Director shall determine to what extent mutual contact is permitted. I would like to say that I will not, in a general sense, make a ruling on how the detention regime should look for every individual potentially covered. I don't know them all. I attach myself to looking at how our society is best served in receiving that person. If it is a truly hopeless terrorist, the individual regime or even the ebi regime will be in place. If there are people who are not as far away from a conviction, then I want to separate them from those under whose sphere of influence they were until that time. Perhaps we can use programs to try to make them see the light, so that they step away from their wandering trail. I am therefore committed to making the difference possible, without wanting to go to relaxation or generally saying that this type of prisoners can be put together. We have also been asked about the state of play. I expect an initial version of the assessment tool I have announced to be ready on 1 November 2015. If that instrument is there, we'll look at it and see how it works and how we can implement it. I welcome the support expressed by Mrs Rebel and Mr Oskam for this line. So that's the way it is. I therefore attach great importance to the possibility of providing tailor-made services and, first of all, to looking at exactly who we have in front of us before we put a regime on it. That is why I advise against Mrs Helder's motion. Mr Oskam has asked a whole series of very interesting questions about general matters relating to the prison system. I hope to be able to discuss this with him soon, but not now. Many questions have been raised in relation to matters which will also be dealt with in the budget debate. Then we have plenty of time to discuss this. Then I come to the questions about the Breech measures and more specifically, as it was called, the 'carrying out of the library'. I read no less, but even more than before. The supplement to my physical library is, however, well rigged by digitalization. So I wouldn't like to say that the library is leaving either. However, the physical library function will go away in time. That's the plan. That certainly doesn't mean there are fewer books. It is even easier to have books available digitally. There were concerns about hurry and speed. Rest assured, we don't work that fast in this case. We want to be careful. First we start the self-service project Justiabelen. Only after the implementation of that project will we proceed to the physical closure of libraries. For the project Self-service Justitiableen we are now preparing the tender. We expect to be able to start implementing this process gradually in 2016. Until then, the physical library function will remain present. It is true that it will disappear in the long term. The function of library staff will also expire. We've been asked if there's a case now. The group works council went to the enterprise chamber because it did not agree with the decision to abolish the physical library function and to abolish the function of library staff. We will see whether the procedure will be continued and when it will serve. But there is not only applause for this intention. If the motion were to call for a phased entry into force, I would think: that is good, because that is exactly what we are doing. But the motion says "more staged." In the trajectory I just described, it is not that in a few months we will have removed all the books and only make digital libraries available. With the care and within the phasering we have now, I don't see how I can phase any more. If a lawsuit or a professional case intervenes, then the judgment of course will be taken into account in our plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-12.u7	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-12.u8	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-12.u9	Am I understood?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-12.u10	Not yet, because you have to operate the microphone yourself. It's a do-it-yourself parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-12.u11	I feel like I'm at Gamma. Anyway, I understand the phasing, but it's the Secretary of State's intention to put an end to it. It is our intention to listen carefully to the people who are talking about it, so the people who work in prison and have serious objections to it. That is why Mrs Kooiman and I have asked to take a closer look at it, perhaps to remove it in part, but also to consider the possibility of someone getting some physical books and taking them to his cell. So that's what the motion is looking at. My second question was that there should be some more information, an update, about the multi-person cells, about what it costs and about additional redundancies. I don't want to wait for that until the end of November. I am fine with it if the Secretary of State cannot say it now, but I expect a letter within two weeks containing the answers to those questions. That doesn't seem too difficult to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-12.u12	About the latter the following. I believe that in two weeks' time we will have a happy day when a lot of information traditionally comes out each year. Let us see if Mr Oskam, if he has read that, has any additional questions and let him ask them if it is not enough. I thank Mr Oskam for the clarification. If I have to understand the motion in this way, I would advise against it, because he also explicitly asks for a residual category to be kept open. I think the process is careful now. We start with what will replace it, namely the self-service project Justiabelen. Only when that is implemented will we begin the phasing-out. So we don't have a period when we both don't have one. We both have a while first. If things go well with digitization and the digital library, we'll tear down the physical library. Because we now know how fine this new system works, our expectation is that it will meet fewer objections. Finally, I would like to address Mrs Rebel's questions about the children of mothers in detention and the factsheet, the so-called child check. It's nice that we have it, but it's a step: it's not nearly enough yet. The child check must be performed. We need to get the police, the justice system and the city together. She reported in the previous AO that she has experienced from her own experience that municipalities do not always know, or not always quite well, what their role is in receiving care. That is why we have developed a brochure with the VNG and the Ministry of VWS. This should not only highlight the child check, but also describe exactly the role of the municipal coordinator, as well as the arrangements and responsibilities. This brochure was presented to the Chamber on 15 June by Secretary of State Van Rijn, also on my behalf. It went to all the p.i.Sent by the head management of the DJI and published on the websites of the DJI and the VNG. In addition, a newsletter aftercare was sent to 2,500 employees this afternoon, including municipal coordinators aftercare, case managers and chain partners such as the probation and Exodus. Attention was also asked for the factsheet and a link to it. It's not like we're thinking: we've sent the information a lot now, so it's probably good. We'll keep an eye on this. I will also make an effort to draw attention to the issue of the national day for the reintegration of detainees on 12 November, organised by me together with the UNG and the Centre for Crime Prevention and Security. By the way, I do not want to give the impression that it will work better if I say something, rather than if the information is transmitted widely, but it will help. Finally, I come to the question of Exodus' wish list and how we deal with it. The detention situation is, of course, primarily the parent's own responsibility. In addition, of course, we have a responsibility to ensure that the way the parent handles that responsibility does not lead the child to suffer from the detention of his or her parents. I also think it is important that the relationship between parent and child can continue despite detention, and that we pay particular attention to this group of children. In order to facilitate the best possible contact between parents and children, we have made a lot of extra efforts in recent times. The regular weekly visit was already there; in addition, the biweekly weekend visit has now been introduced for mothers who have been punished. Both in the house of custody and in the p.i.At least ten parent-child days per year are organized where women stay. Not only is there the possibility to use telephone and mail for communication, but there is also investment in modern resources such as video communication and digital mail. I put it this way to describe what we do without brand names. During the visit the group of children is taken into account and the safety measures that remain necessary are handled in a child-friendly and more playful way. The visitors' rooms are also child-friendly. In every p.i. A staff member shall be specifically designated as a point of contact for dealing with children. Mothers can participate in the better start education course. In addition, there is the opportunity to get leave on weekends to practice at home with the children as part of this education course. In the last stretch of detention it is also possible to stay in an Exodus house as a special condition or as part of a program, and even there the reintegration and contact with the child are put at the centre. When I mention all of this, I think that the particular attention given to this group, as mentioned in the wish list of Exodus, is indeed there and that we are constantly looking at how it can improve and taking into account the essential relationship between mother and child, while trying to maintain it as much as possible, even if the mother is in detention. I will make every effort to continue to support that contact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-12.u13	Next Tuesday, the Chamber will vote on the motions tabled.
