ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u1	I give the floor to Mr Koolmees of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Greek tragedy goes on and on. This Friday, the Greeks will have to pay off another loan to the IMF, but Minister Varoufakis is still out of money. Bankruptcy is above the market and time is running out. Yesterday, in Berlin, the leaders of the troika, now the institutions, came together for the umpteenth time: President Draghi of the ECB, Mrs Lagarde of the IMF and President Juncker on behalf of the European Commission, and that was not the end of it. New was that two heads of government elected and not just two, namely Chancellor Merkel and the French President Hollande. These five would work towards an ultimatum for Greece. It may not be called an ultimatum, but it may be a final offer, as I read in the press. The difference is not entirely clear to me, but perhaps it is for the Prime Minister. There was one notable absence, namely the President of the Eurogroup, Mr Dijsselbloem. The consultations are now taking place at the level of the Heads of Government. That's why I have three questions for our government leader. Did Merkel and Hollande have a mandate from the other European countries to negotiate? Or was that on your own initiative? Where was the President of the Eurogroup? Why was Minister Dijsselbloem not allowed to speak on behalf of all the euro countries? What's been discussed? Is there indeed an ultimatum agreed? And do the Greeks get extra money? All in all, what act of the Greek tragedy are we in now? Or does it end up in a happy game?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. Negotiations with Greece are conducted by the three institutions, the European Central Bank, the IMF and the European Commission, and decisions are taken in the Eurogroup. That's the deal. In addition, a lot of conversations take place in all kinds of places. I myself have conversations with all kinds of people about this. There are all kinds of other discussions taking place and there was another discussion yesterday, but ultimately the three institutions are preparing the matter and the decision-making is taking place in the eurogroup. This is done along the lines of the Eurogroup Declaration of 20 February, which was also discussed here in the Chamber during various debates. That is the question of mandate, sitting and presence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u4	This is a very brief and procedural response from the Prime Minister. If Chancellor Merkel and President Hollande, together with the leaders of the troika, come together in Berlin and come out that there is an ultimatum, then that is more than the current mandate. I think the Prime Minister's running over this very easily. I asked three very specific questions: did Merkel and Hollande have a mandate to negotiate with the institutions on behalf of the European Council, where was the President of the Eurogroup and what exactly was discussed? Is there an ultimatum? I would like to get a response to these three substantive questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u5	It won't deviate very much from my first answer. Negotiations will be concluded in the Eurogroup and their preparation will be based on the statement of the Eurogroup on 20 February. In fact, this means that there should ultimately be a result within the lines of the existing programme, although it is possible for Greece to replace measures with other measures, provided that the essay has the same macroeconomic impact as the existing programme. It's a well-known fact. The conversation with Greece has been going on for months, but it's not going very well. All kinds of people are trying to promote that conversation. For example, I myself spoke a long time with Prime Minister Tsipras at the summit in Riga two weeks ago. Everyone's trying to do their part. The French President and the German Chancellor also do so in various places and in various compositions. Those are attempts to promote the conversation. The troika, or rather the institutions 'formerly know as troika', as we have to say today, prepare the process and then the rounding takes place in the euro group. The mandate is the mandate of the Eurogroup on 20 February. Within that mandate, the troika parties speak with Greece and the finalisation of the Eurogroup should take place. Mr Dijsselbloem has a lot of conversations with all kinds of people. He also talks regularly with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance of Greece. He has all kinds of contacts with the finance ministers. He was still present at the March summit at a night-time meeting, at which time the President of France and the Chancellor of Germany joined. So there is a lot of consultation going on, but all of these are attempts to promote. No decisions are taken in these consultations, because these decisions are ultimately taken in the Eurogroup.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u6	That surprises me, because the feedback from yesterday's meeting clearly states that there is an ultimate offer for the Greeks. In the Financial Times it says that officials in other countries have now been given feedback from this consultation. There are big decisions ahead and there is little time. A loan has to be repaid on Friday. I am surprised that the Dutch government leader has no idea what is going on. We all know that if the Franco-German axis moves, agreements will be reached. My question to the Prime Minister is: what does the Netherlands know about the ultimatum that has been asked? Is the Netherlands involved in the agreement that is now under way? Will the Chamber also be involved in that ultimatum? Once there's an offer, we all know the sign is on the cross.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u7	Once again, what took place yesterday is a consultation in a series of many consultations to promote discussions between the three Troika parties and Greece, with the aim of reaching a decision in the Eurogroup on the finalisation of the second aid package within the existing framework of agreements, allowing for the replacement of measures by other measures, provided that the sum of all these measures has the same effects. Last night's conversation was one in a series of many interventions at all levels between all kinds of people to lead that process to a good outcome. A good outcome is that Greece meets the requirements for Greece to complete the second aid package. The process has not been successful so far, but we continue to make our efforts, because we consider it important. That goes with yesterday's conversation. This has no special status and has not had a different mandate from the February mandate. All these discussions by everyone take place within the framework set by the eurogroup and they are all helpful in bringing the talks between the troika parties and Greece and then Greece and the eurogroup to a successful conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u8	I note that the Prime Minister is not answering my questions. This surprises me with such an important agreement which seems to be in the pipeline, especially in view of the Prime Minister's involvement, his statement 'not a penny more to the Greeks' and the red button in the election campaign. I have only had a procedural answer and not a substantive answer. Again a repeat of the questions. What is true of the ultimatum, what lies ahead and when will the Chamber be involved in the negotiations?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u9	The meeting last night was a consultation in a series of consultations. My commitment to this is that I am in close contact with many capitals and have spoken in detail with the Greek Prime Minister at the Eastern Partnership Summit in Riga. All these talks are aimed at convincing the Greek new colleague of the importance for Greece and Europe of meeting the commitments made by the previous Greek Government. There is now a new Greek government, but it must comply with the macroeconomic objectives of the existing aid programme. There is scope for replacing measures with other measures. That's fine, but they have to add up to the same thing. Last night's conversation also fits in. There can be no departure from the mandate given by the eurogroup to the troika on 20 February 2015 and, in fact, to itself for the purpose of reaching a conclusion in the eurogroup, i.e. the finance ministers. It is very good that the Heads of State or Government of the large countries are also actively involved in this and say to Mr Tsipras, the new Greek Prime Minister, that new friend, do comply with the agreements!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u10	I'm trying to put in the Prime Minister's persistent answers. Whether he knows what happened yesterday and thinks it would be better for the trial not to talk about it or he really doesn't know it, but then he will have to be cleared up very quickly. What is it now? If he doesn't know what happened, I hope the Prime Minister will want to know what was discussed yesterday? Is he going to ask those who have spoken there what has been discussed? Of course, no one believes that it's just a conversation in a whole series.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u11	Of course, we ensure that we are aware of the results of all the helpful interventions and the instruments used to achieve them. The same goes for last night's conversation. That was an informal consultation, without formal status. I therefore do not feel entitled to do so now that the participants in the consultation have not made any further announcements. The mandate is such that the Eurogroup will ultimately have to settle the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u12	Mr Pechtold, you want to interrupt, but I'm a little hesitant. The questions have been put by your group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u13	I'm a member of that. The Prime Minister came into the Chamber clearly irritated, but if it remains with these vague answers, it would be more appropriate for the Chamber to be irritated. The obstinacy of the Greek Government is not only bad for the Greek people, but also for the European economy, our pensions, our employment and Dutch interests. The question has been asked why the whole summit was there, while our minister was not there in his capacity as President of the Eurogroup. I just want an answer to that. It has also been asked whether an ultimatum has been set. In my opinion, this too must be answered. Above all, I do not want to hear from the Prime Minister when he speaks to whom in Riga. I want to hear from him what he will share with the Chamber when.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u14	First, I want to say something about the alleged irritation. It didn't concern the questions that were asked. There was an agenda technical problem: my presence was desired here, but at the same time also in the First Chamber. That was not resolved interinstitutionally. I believe that the institutions should resolve this between themselves; the members of the cabinet do not have to do so. This had nothing to do with the questions asked. I am always prepared to answer any question, provided that the agenda allows, but that was not possible now. Then to the content. This is an issue between the Eurogroup and Greece. The Netherlands is part of the eurogroup and even provides the president of the eurogroup. The Eurogroup acts within the mandate of 20 February. It was agreed that the three troika parties will discuss with the Greek Government the programme agreed by the previous government with the European Union, the second package of assistance. There is scope for replacing measures with other measures, provided that they produce results in the addition, in the macro-economic impact, in fiscal terms, i.e. in budgetary results. That's happening right now. I can inform the Chamber of its outcome as soon as there is a result, for good or for bad. At the moment, there is no such outcome. Last night's consultation was one in a series of many consultations to put pressure on the process, with the aim of achieving a positive effect. I think I know about what was discussed last night and we also have good information about all the other talks that are taking place, but I find it strange to inform the Chamber about this, since the parties who were together yesterday have not made any announcements about it. It would be crazy if that information would come out through the Dutch Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u15	There's been talk for months. Many European countries have just kept to the agreements they have made. That is not the case with the Greeks. For a long time they have been trying to get out of the agreements they have made. Does the Prime Minister exclude that, if there is to be paid and there is no money, there will still be room for further delay of payment and new conditions, which will allow the Greeks to get away with it again? Does the Prime Minister exclude that kind of bargaining with the rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u16	On 20 February, the Eurogroup issued an extremely well defined mandate. In the various subsequent debates, when I received similar questions, I referred to this mandate and said at the same time that I would leave it at that. After all, everything I say along the lines of the question to specify that mandate is not helpful in resolving the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u17	The Greeks have been fooling us for five years now and have already received more than 200 billion from us. Yesterday I heard Mr Vendrik from the General Court say that there is no chance that we will get this money back. The Prime Minister always said we'd get the money back. The previous finance minister even said that we would get the money back with interest. It turns out that even one of the Presidents of the General Court predicts that we will not get the money back. Is the Prime Minister still willing to give one euro to the Greeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u18	We are now in the process of completing the second aid package for Greece. In that second package of aid there is still some billions of space left to help the Greeks get back on their feet. A new Greek government has now taken office, which is fundamentally opposed to the principles and objectives of the existing package. This has been a reason for the other eurozone countries to say that we are blocking the payment of the last tranche and the existing aid package, and we want to make sure that the new Greek Government does stick to these commitments. We're in that process now. As soon as further information is available, the Minister of Finance will immediately inform the Chamber. There aren't any right now. We are now in the midst of discussions aimed at convincing Greece to comply with the previous government's commitments and to ensure that any changes they wish to make will produce the same results in addition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u19	Second question for the PVV Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u20	Well, it doesn't matter to me, Mr. Chairman, but as chairman, you have to make sure that I get an answer to my question. My question was: does this Prime Minister think we will get one euro back from the money we all borrowed from the Greeks? But the Prime Minister simply gives the same answer as to Mr Pechtold, Mrs Schouten and Mr Buma, up to three times,...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u21	No, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u22	...and Mr Koolmees! I ask: is the Prime Minister, like former Minister De Jager, convinced that we are getting back all those euros we borrowed from Greece? I want an answer to that. Yes or no, it is. Obviously, Mr Vendrik is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u23	That was not Mr Van Dijck's question. Mr Van Dijck asked: are you prepared to transfer money to the Greeks? The Netherlands is prepared to grant the last instalment in the existing aid package if the Greeks meet the requirements of the existing aid package. They're not doing that right now. That's why it's blocked. The Eurogroup agreed on the conditions to be met by the Greeks in order to be eligible for the last instalment in the existing aid package. Those conversations are going on right now. This afternoon's question touches on last night's conversation in Berlin. That was one of the informal talks that took place to put positive pressure on that process. I've tried to answer that to my conscience.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-2.u24	Thank you for your answers and thanks for coming to the Chamber.
