ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment, as well as the people in the public gallery. I give the floor to Mrs Van Tongeren van GroenLinks, the applicant for this debate. There are four minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. 900 citizens are dragging the State to court. Together with Urgenda, their demand is that the State protects them better against climate change. The state's losing the case. This is a historic verdict. It is discussed in all boardrooms, universities, lawyers' practices and action groups around the world. These people are watching with us today. This is the most groundbreaking trial of this decade. You would think that the cabinet is deeply ashamed of this painful rebuke of the judge and immediately comes up with a firm approach. But what does the government do? It sends a note saying that we can go to sleep quietly, because we have to wait for planned research first. And our Prime Minister says in the General Political Reviews: The Netherlands already has a solid climate policy. Can the Minister explain what is meant by "solid"? Over the past ten years, the targets for the Netherlands have always been revised downwards. First it was -30%, then -20% and now we're at -15%. What's solid about that? Minister Kamp, he acknowledges, has difficulty in implementing the energy agreement. That energy agreement may cover half or two thirds of what the judge has now pronounced. But every week, his colleagues make decisions that increase emissions. Minister Schultz is proud of every extra stretch of road you can drive 130 km/h. Yesterday we had a discussion about the expansion of airports in the Netherlands. Wiebes makes heavy, polluting cars cheaper and clean cars more expensive in his Autobrief. And Secretary of State Dijksma allows 10% more cows. What's solid about that? In this debate, I would like to hear from the rulers how, of course, they are going to implement this sentence immediately and in full. We want clarity on what measures will be taken in 2016; not examined or discussed, but taken. We would also like to know how this cabinet is going to implement immediately the Klever motion adopted. In any case, a solid climate policy consists of a list of measures that add up to a 25% reduction in CO emissions from the Netherlands. GroenLinks helped the government, as it always does, and made a list that adds up. We do not attach any importance to that particular list. We would also welcome another combination of measures, but how does the cabinet deal with this? We would also like the government to give us a commitment that any new measure that increases emissions will indicate how to ensure that something else is going to go down somewhere else. I'm here to appeal. Yesterday, the cabinet decided to take our mind off the appeal. We urge the cabinet to make a jump-off of this. We have heard from Urgenda that Urgenda is prepared to do so. What is this government's very motivating reason for dragging that lawsuit for another or two years? There is such urgency about the climate problem; that is what the GroenLinks cabinet agrees with. Then go directly to the constitutional, legal points and let the Supreme Court decide on them. I started with it: the state has lost and the sentence must be executed immediately. Then it is very difficult for the losing party itself to monitor the execution of a verdict that it does not agree with. GroenLinks has therefore proposed that the parties, i.e. Urgenda and the State, jointly appoint an independent third party to oversee the execution of this judgment. I kind of called it a "climate bailiff" in the media. Many of us will remember the Roe v. Wade abortion case in America. In the end, it was also the judge who turned the sentiment among the population and made abortion possible for women. It was the judge who made sure that black and white people could go to school together in America. In the Netherlands it was the Council of State that ensured that the Groningen gas crane at Loppersum at least closes a little further. In a democratic rule of law, it is not unusual for both powers to keep each other sharp. That has also happened on the subject of climate. The government should be deeply ashamed and should proceed immediately to ensure that further court rulings to which the government is the losing party are not necessary, for us, our children and the climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. The climate sentence was an historic statement. For the first time, the judge tapped the State with the message that he should better protect his own citizens from climate change. The ruling indicates that the government's climate policy is simply inadequate. Hiding behind the energy agreement is no longer possible. More ambition is needed. The climate ruling raises a number of legal questions about the status of international treaties, about the role of the judge and about the trias politician. It is important that we get answers to this. That's what D66 thinks. There are actually two choices for answering those questions. With an appeal, you're going to chew the whole content again and the case is going to drag on for years. In jump cassation, a long and costly intermediate step is avoided. Legal questions will be dealt with immediately. Jump cassation is therefore about the legal aspects. If the state were to win, the substantive verdict would also be off the table. Actually, I'd like to say to the Minister, you have nothing to lose. Even if he doubts the IPCC report, he may, if he wins, still out under this ruling. In fact, in the first Urgenda case, the State did not object to the substantive evidence. So what exactly is the content of the appeal still to be considered? What does the appeal add? Urgenda's prepared to jump-off. Is the Minister prepared to save costs and time and make the jump to cassation right away? The climate statement is, as it is legally called, feasible in the case of stocks. That means you have to get to work right away, regardless of whether the trial goes on or not. However, the government chooses to study for another year. The longer we wait, the more difficult it becomes to achieve these objectives without having to take all kinds of emergency measures at the end of time in order to achieve the objectives. It is important that not only the first part of the judge's ruling is implemented, 25% by 2020, but that we also take the second part, 40% by 2030. This means that we must now take measures that will structurally strengthen our economy. They should not only be a solution by 2020, but also ensure that we are on the right path towards the second part of the statement, namely 40% by 2030. This brings benefits to our economy, lower energy bills and clean air: all things we need to work on now. One bright thing is that last week the Chamber adopted a motion requesting that the additional measures be implemented in 2016. This means that we need to know what we are going to do by the beginning of 2016. Can the government promise that before the end of the year there will be a concrete list of new CO-reduction measures which the government intends to implement? For example, D66 is thinking of more bets on low-energy low-energy homes. We want to encourage industry to use less energy. Help them make that transition, too. D66 thinks of a real clean air letter instead of a polluting car letter. I refer to the acceleration of heat networks and the use of residual heat, and, of course, the greening of taxes and the maintenance of taxes on polluting coal plants. I assume that the government does not want to exclude tax measures as part of this overall package. This means, however, that these tax measures will have to be dealt with soon, when the Tax Plan is being discussed, if they are to be implemented in 2016. Is the government prepared to do so? I'll finish with that. I hope, of course, that the cabinet will make a very constructive contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mrs Van Veldhoven refers to the word 'coal power stations' but she is not talking about a possible closure. Does it consciously do this, also because during the period of Minister Brinkhorst it was decided to start these coal plants, because the large industry thought the gas price was too high? Mrs Medy van der Laan, also a leading D66 member, is also opposed to mordicus, because she thinks that you need to tackle a possible closure at European level. Is that also Mrs Van Veldhoven's line or is that oldskool D66 next to modern D66 here behind the cathedral?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u5	I would have liked to say a lot more in my text, but I cannot do everything in four minutes. In the case of measures up to 2020, there is a concrete measure that we can wipe out immediately, and that is the abolition of the coal tax. We must maintain the coal tax. D66 is also in favour of phasing out coal in the Netherlands. I believe that the two old power stations from the 1990s can be shut down much earlier. We cannot imagine that by 2050 we will still have emissions from the coal plants that are now in existence. There are several solutions for the coal plants, because you can either apply CCS or close early. I think that the companies that have made investments have really taken account of this time when we must do everything we can to achieve a different energy supply. They will therefore have seen that the planned life of these coal plants had to be adjusted. I think it is very important to discuss this with the companies. We need a fundamentally different energy supply with much less CO emissions. The coal-fired power stations must take up their own role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u6	If the rulers propose to take the newer coal plants out of production more quickly, is Mrs Van Veldhoven therefore to be applauded in the front? Do I understand that from the answer she's giving now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u7	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u8	I heard Mrs van Veldhoven say that the new coal plants have already taken account of the need to close quickly. Where does Mrs Van Veldhoven get this information?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u9	I see that all kinds of large companies are taking into account the fact that the CO price is going to rise. They internally charge CO prices far above the market price. I believe that all companies see that the transition to a different energy supply is now being made seriously. Moreover, they know that coal is twice as polluting as gas, although gas is also a fossil fuel and is therefore still much more polluting than all renewable energy. This means that companies, if they are sensible, have taken this into account in their future plans. These are signals I'm hearing from the sector. They probably do not expect closure by 2020, but they also do not assume that the plant will still run in 2070.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u10	I can really hear Mrs Van Veldhoven talking about a quick closure. That'll be 2020 or 2025, I suppose. Does Mrs Van Veldhoven insist that these companies have taken account of the closure of these brand new, modern coal plants?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u11	Mr Madlener does not hear me say that I expect them to have taken into account a closure in 2020 or 2025, but that they have taken account of an earlier closure than they had in mind at the time they started the plans for the coal plants. At that time, the debate on climate change and the seriousness of the transition to a new energy supply was still in a very different light. We are all aware that climate change is really a problem that we need to address. In the Netherlands all kinds of host plants are stopped, by the same energy companies, although they are much less polluting. We can choose to emit twice as much CO or not. Of course, in the European context, we must agree on this. But these companies also have an interest in getting the stationary gas plants going. They must be consulted on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has always been in the world's interest in climate. Not so long ago it was because the Netherlands was leading the way in recognising the problems of global warming and therefore the great dangers that this poses for us here and especially for the perspective and viability of people elsewhere, of those who have no part in global warming. It is our emissions that primarily contribute to climate change, but people in developing countries who have not contributed will be hit first and hardest. The Netherlands knew that. I don't have the illusion or the impression that this has been forgotten. We still know that. The world's interest in the Dutch role in global climate policy and in addressing and solving the problem has turned into something we could be proud of, something we should be ashamed of. The fact that the Netherlands has turned its lead into a nation in which citizens have to go to court to move the State to do what he knows is necessary is of a level I had not dreamed of when I took my first steps as an environmental activist; it is a nightmare. My question is therefore where the Prime Minister is today. This is an historic judgment of the judge, thanks to the citizens and Urgenda. I would think that the Dutch State would be interested in this, that there would be a vision and a plan and that we would say to the citizens of this country: yes, it is difficult, but if we wait any longer to get to work, it will be much more difficult. The Prime Minister is the man who can do anything, isn't he? Surely he is the man who can explain to people: if we don't do this now, then the problems will be much bigger? I have great respect for the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Secretary of State for the Environment, but I think we need the boss. Where's the Prime Minister? It is very important that the Netherlands takes back the role it had. It is not just about our own emissions, but also about the climate summit in Paris. If the Netherlands is going to challenge the judge's ruling that we are doing too little to limit climate change, then yesterday when the appeal was filed, the cabinet did so. We're being laughed at, I can tell you. In the light of the international approach to climate change, it is therefore incredibly foolish to bring that appeal. I know politicians who can't sleep when they think of the dangers of global warming. Those politicians are in this Chamber and even the leader of a government group is among them. Those politicians have the sweat of fear in their hands for the day that their children will ask: what have you done? The answer is for the time being: I made it happen, people had to go to court to touch my own government and then I let it happen that my government fought back instead of taking action. The Party for Animals has one call: change, today while you still can, get to work. We do not need to argue about the measures that are needed, which the cabinet has known for a long time. Go into jump cassation for the legal questions that deserve clarification, but now get to work. If not, then I can conclude nothing but that we have become an embarrassing nation. Let us please change this today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State met Pope Francis last week. The reason for this meeting was the encyclical Laudato Si about caring for our common home, the creation. Over the past decades, we have seriously neglected the concern for all the valuable life in creation. I refer to pollution of the environment, the climate crisis, a lack of clean drinking water, deforestation and declining biodiversity. At the end of the conversation, the Secretary of State stated: "The Pope expressly addresses us on our own responsibility. I think that's important." I want to discuss this responsibility with the cabinet today, and I will address it to that responsibility. The judge also referred the Dutch State to its responsibility. The Netherlands must comply with international agreements and reduce 25% of harmful greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. The cabinet chooses to appeal against the ruling. That takes money and a lot of precious time. Does the urgency of the problem reach the cabinet? I'd like a reaction to that. Moreover, the Cabinet acknowledges that the judgment should simply be enforced because an appeal does not have suspensory effect on the execution of the judgment. Speakers before me also asked: if the cabinet wants legal clarity, why not opt for the much faster course to the Supreme Court? The choice of appeal marks the ambiguous attitude of the cabinet. The Secretary of State wrote in a letter to the Chamber a few weeks ago that she is executing the sentence, but in the meantime she is going to evaluate it quietly and comes up with measures only afterwards. I ask the cabinet once again: does it see the urgency? Twenty international climate scientists and lawyers have sent a letter to the Prime Minister. They're asking to waive the appeal. The judge's ruling is based on scientific consensus. They advocate, for example, the introduction of a CO levy. Then I come to the measures. The longer we delay it, the more expensive and more difficult it gets. I don't want to pass that bill on to our children or grandchildren. The Christian Union now wants to make sharp choices to make our economy future-proof. We have also shown this in our counter-budget. Do not abolish the coal tax but increase it. Make much more work of energy saving. Ensure tax exemption for energy cooperatives for local, renewable energy generation. And ensure further greening of the tax plan. Last week there was a small bright spot...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u14	Thank you for the explanation from the Christian Union. Is she actually calling for the energy agreement to be dropped? Because, of course, the things that the Christian Union is proposing are bombed under there. How does she see that? Because I remember from one of the previous debates that the Christian Union was very much in favour of the energy agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u15	It is no secret that the Christian Union wants to open the energy agreement. In last week's General Political Reviews, my group chairman said the same thing. The energy agreement is not enough. There's got to be a big shovel on top. If we have to increase the tax on coal for this, then that is indeed the break-up of the energy agreement. And so it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u16	We're getting a lot of letters from the Cabinet this fall. As the Christian Union knows, the CDA Group has called for the review of the Energy Agreement to be brought forward in order to review the measures earlier. Could the Christian Union agree if, with all the letters that are still coming, we carefully weigh up each other and say at the beginning of next year: we are going to take these steps and we are also incorporating them in the 2017 budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u17	I understand the point made by the CDA Group in order to see what the energy agreement brings us. But we know that the energy agreement is not enough. Last week, the Chamber adopted a motion stating that measures should really be implemented in 2016. I recalculate and then see that we can't actually wait to take those measures. And indeed, we may still have to take a good look at the consequences of some measures. But we will soon be discussing the tax plan and the budgets of, for example, EZ and I and M. I have to say that, after the judge's ruling, the cabinet did not withdraw from Wassenaar's beach to adjust those budgets. But that's what it takes, so it should have been the Cabinet. Carrying out the judge's judgment means adjusting the tax plan and adjusting budgets. That is not going to happen, and I am sorry to hear that. We know what adjustments are needed, there are thick reports and it just has to be done. I'm moving on. Last week, the adoption of the Klever c.s. motion, which we signed along, was a small light. The motion calls on the government to actually start implementing additional measures in 2016. In the interruption debate with the CDA, it was already mentioned that this means that we now have to make choices. How is the Cabinet going to implement this motion in the short term, I ask the Secretary of State. Is the cabinet prepared to return to the table with the parties to the energy agreement to take additional measures to reach the 25%? Soon we will be expecting a new National Energy Exploratory of the PBL and shortly thereafter the Energy Agreement Committee will also meet. Is the Minister going to be constructive and open in the Committee on Security and Cooperation? And is the Minister prepared to ask the PBL for an investigation into the closure of coal plants? I am particularly curious about the effects and scenarios and the net CO reduction that this produces within the Netherlands, taking into account replacement effects and the effects on the electricity price.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u18	Were you done with your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u19	Not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u20	I propose that Mrs Dik-Faber conclude her sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u21	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u22	Yes, I'll give you an opportunity in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u23	Some speakers have referred to the climate summit in Paris. I would like to talk about the 70th UN meeting which sets out 17 new sustainable development goals. Rich countries are also explicitly addressed, including the fight against climate change. The presence of the Netherlands is only credible if the cabinet does not appeal. Get the letter back, take the measures, and do it now!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u24	Mrs Dik-Faber, you have just indicated that the cabinet should have been sitting on the beach right away and no sentence later you say that very important reports are coming. Do you not also agree with the cabinet that it is wise to wait for those very important reports and then introduce those measures, as has actually been decided in the Chamberwide motion that you referred to? Isn't that a bit for the stage? We're not driving a car here, we're driving a country, are we?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u25	Oh, yeah. I am also very pleased with the motion that was adopted last week, because it expresses, with the support of the Labour Party, the need to implement measures in 2016. If we are going to implement it in 2016 and we are not waiting until 31 December, but we are going to do it earlier in the year, then we need to take steps now. Indeed, there are reports and there will be evaluations, but I would like to bring it forward as soon as possible. Let me honestly say that my frustration is that there is a verdict, of which the cabinet says 'we are going to carry it out', but that no changes are being made, for example on the Tax Plan and on budgets. There are already measures to be devised, apart from the major reports that are coming, which we can already implement with each other. I would like to mention, for example, the issue of local energy generation. These initiatives will receive an additional discount in the Tax Plan. That's great, but if you raise that discount, you're gonna get a lot more decentralized power generation right away, perfect. So there are choices we can make with each other that we can already make without all those reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u26	This system of decentralised energy generation has been improved in the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u27	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u28	Extra money has been made available for this. That was done at the request of your group and of my group. That is precisely because every year in the Netherlands the number of solar panels installed doubles. Residents of the Netherlands would like that. That is an excellent example of how we accelerate that energy transition and, in any case, the action is added to the word when it is not going very well. So you contradict yourself, I see. You will do the same when you say that we must wait for the National Energy Exploratory and for the very important report by Mr Nijpels. At the same time, you express your frustration. I feel this frustration, but I think that we should find ourselves in a rational position to see that we are very well on the way and that we should wait for those reports and then implement the judge's ruling, as it should be in a rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u29	I don't think we're that far apart. My plea is: let us now just take measures that we can take together and let us also take the next steps on the basis of the reports that are coming. But don't wait until the end of 2016. And yet again that motion, which says that we are going to implement measures in 2016. Well, that indicates the urgency. If we really want to do that with each other, we're gonna have to sit around the table real quick and cut through. One of those buttons, which my party already wants to cut through today, is that we are deciding on coal power plants. That huge emissions in the last quarter was much bigger than ever before. It just runs counter to our ambition. We shouldn't want that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u30	Mr. Chairman. There are moments you will always be able to keep up with and move when you see them again: the release of Mandela, the goal of Van Basten against Germany in 1988, the end of the Sound of Music, when you see the Von Trapp family walking through the mountains and you hear "Climb every mountain." Last Sunday's Counter-Light Broadcast was one of those moments, albeit on a slightly smaller scale. I think a lot of people, even though they knew how it turned out, didn't keep it dry at the end of that broadcast. I ask the rulers whether this is true of them too. It wasn't just a lawsuit, it's not just a verdict. It's a tilt point, it should be a tilt point. That is why this debate is important. That is why it is important that we have the conference in Paris soon. It's an invitation to the cabinet to work on it. In this sense, I regret that, although their right is good, the rulers are appealing that they did not consider the possibility of a jump-off, at least did not choose to do so. We have put peat, we have had horse and cart, we have had steam engines, we have discovered coal at some point, and now we have 100 years of coal and 50 years of gas and oil in stock. It's just running out. I think that the whole discussion about the warming of this planet is going to be man-made or not? In fact, it is a little subordinate to the knowledge that those fossil fuels are running low. 300 million years ago, it was Carboon. In tens of millions of years these stocks of coal, gas and oil have formed and we are going to drive them through in a few generations. That's just absurd. The discussion about whether or not this CO concentration in the atmosphere is our fault does not really matter. I always keep an open ear for people who say it isn't, because I like hearing different opinions, but we have to intervene. The moment is now being thrown into the cabinet's lap. With Paris approaching, the rulers can jump on this wave that Urgenda has driven for them. Do that too! If this does not happen, we will see an increase in the number of small and large catastrophes, the number of smaller and larger population movements and geopolitical tensions, purely because of this scarcity. If this is not due to oil and coal, then it is because of phosphate, which is actually only available in two countries in some extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u31	I'm a little surprised, because those fossil stocks aren't up at all. Huge gas fields are being discovered off the coasts of Mozambique and Tanzania. Several ships from oil companies and nations steam up to the North Pole to mine the place. In the United States there is shale gas. I call the tar sand oil. There is an inexhaustible urge on part of humanity to burn more fossil fuels. These stocks are simply on the balance sheets of the oil and gas companies. I would like an explanation from Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u32	We do not go much further than 50 years with the winable supplies of oil and gas. That does move a bit, because new stocks are always being found, but even if you talk about 100 years, a term that is called for coal, we are talking about your child's child. This will have to do with a situation of zero coal. On the scale of those tens of millions of years that it took to build up those supplies, isn't it crazy that we live so on the puff? In fact, we are doing this by pushing through those stocks now, making ourselves unhealthy and not starting our grandchildren and great-grandchildren with anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u33	I certainly agree with Mr Smaling on the latter point. I note, however, that more and more fuels have been added in the 200 years that we have been extracting and burning fossil fuels since the industrial revolution. The curve, as it were, shifts over time. We see this in our own Groningenfield, but also in almost all places where fossil fuels are extracted. But when you say "it's almost gone," I say, unfortunately, if only. That is not the case and the change is not going to come. It has to come from here, from politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u34	I fully agree with that, but we will talk about the stocks. Moreover, I do base myself on the Bosatlas, which keeps track of this, which is about winable stocks. At some point it's easy to win rather than the hard to win, but that's going to be a detailed discussion. I will not go into that further. I am very curious to see what measures the government intends to take. The appeal has no suspensory effect, so action must be taken immediately. What are the plans, to what extent is the root used and to what extent the stick? I think a combination of those two can help get things done pretty quickly. Can you phase out the coal power plants faster? I'd love to. A lot of gas plants are standing still. And what can you do with the SDE+ you're left with if you don't cook biomass? Can you hit more bioheat plants like Purmerend? Can you set up an energy mix program in Drenthe instead of the constant misery with windmills? Is that a possibility? In 2017, an enormous amount of electric cars will come out of the lease. As a second-hand car, they can very well take out a huge supply of cars for commuters in large cities. Already you can see that a lot of people assume they won't need a car in ten years. If you look at how people think they're going to organise their mobility, 20% of cars will be gone between now and ten years. In industry, you can tackle the large consumer tax to bring forward replacement investments. This gives a huge swing to isolation of companies, offices and built environment through the zero-on-the-meter concept. Provide them with microgrids, neighborhood batteries and set up experimental areas. Do this and put savings very much next to the shift towards renewable energy. Saving is not of sufficient importance when you turn it from fossil to sustainable next to the cover. I hope that what the government has allowed the King to say and the statements made by Mr Koenders, who has been to the North Pole and has said 'it is not five to twelve hours', plus the fact that Paris is almost there, will encourage the government to jump on that wave and say 'we have had a wake-up call, we have got our fingers crossed, we understand that we have to get to work'. Take other countries willingly and do not raise your finger to countries that are now growing and increasing their emissions, but take a chance of the opportunity that Urgenda has given us today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u35	Mr. Chairman. The Lower House today assesses our government's decision on the climate issue that Urgenda has brought against the State. That judgment of 24 June means that the State must take more measures to combat CO pollution in the Netherlands. Greenhouse gas emissions in the Netherlands should be reduced to a level of 25% below 1990 emissions. On behalf of my group, I would first like to say something about Urgenda, about the 886 fellow demanders and also about the team that assisted Urgenda in court. The involvement in CO pollution by humans and the great personal commitment, especially by Marjan Minnesma and Roger Cox, demonstrate active citizenship and a great commitment to our society. This involvement will contribute to the solution to the greatest problem of our time: the pollution of our atmosphere with greenhouse gases, which seriously threatens life on our planet. This is a major achievement that has brought about a great deal internationally. For this the Labour Party would like to express its great appreciation, I am proud of such Dutch people; I would like to see many more of these people, they are an example for many! Mr. Chairman. The judge's ruling and, above all, the way in which the cabinet wishes to deal with the ruling is the main subject of this debate. If the President will allow me, I would like to say a little more about what the Netherlands is doing about the reduction of CO2 at the moment. It is important to note that our government invests more than any previous coalition in the transition to a CO2-free society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u36	Before we hear again that we are already doing so well with our measures, I would like to ask a fundamental question. I am also very proud of the citizens who went to court together with Urgenda. But I do have mixed feelings, because it is certainly terrible that we need the judge to touch on us, elected representatives of the people, with all the knowledge we have about global warming and about the importance of the 2oC objective! That's terrible, isn't it? Can the Labour Party perhaps acknowledge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u37	I don't see it as crass, but as the essence of our rule of law. We know a trias politician in the Netherlands, about which much has been said. The trias politician in the Netherlands is not based on a separation of powers, as is often said, but on the distribution of power. That means that we have a government of the country, the government, a legislative power, the Chamber of Representatives, where you have your own place in the court. Those three powers determine with each other what happens in the Netherlands. Those three powers are also so divided up and the powers are also so divided over those powers that they can correct each other. What has happened here is a very good example of the lively nature of our rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u38	Sure. I'm very much in favour of that, too. I am glad that the judge is here, I am glad that these citizens have gone to court, but my question remains: is it terrible that you need to be corrected?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u39	In this case, you are the State and the legislator, and you, Mrs Ouwehand, are just as much part of that as I am. We represent the Dutch who voted for us in this country. If you address me, you address yourself. And again, I don't see it as horrible. I think it is wonderful that our democracy, our rule of law, should function in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u40	Mr Vos spoke warmly about the people who brought this trial. He said he was proud of these people, because they are an example for many. But Mr Vos himself could also be an example by calling on the cabinet not to appeal, but directly in cassation. Are you willing to do that? If no, can you indicate what you think the benefits of an appeal go above directly in cassation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u41	I'll see you in your paper leaves. Will you perhaps come back to that later in your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u42	Mr President, I would like to answer the question right now. Mrs Van Veldhoven is entitled to that. The first point is that the judge's ruling must be enforced. I think we all agree on that, including the Cabinet. The ruling is therefore carried out. Point two is that an appeal has been lodged in order to obtain security and unity in the legal form. My party, the Labour Party, did not have to do this, but I have said before that I do not want to stand in the way of an appeal either. Any legal person in the Netherlands, including the State, has the right to appeal. From the point of view of legal certainty and case law, it is also very important, how much you might have liked it to be different. If you decided today by motion that there should be a cassation, a cassation in the interest of the law or jump cassation, you would politicize the possibility of appeal. This would mean that any subsequent ruling by the judge would allow us to take the political decision here with each other whether or not to allow the State to appeal. In view of the spread of powers, I think that is a step too far. I would also say that it is wrong, because it means that you are politicising the legal process in the Netherlands. This is not the way our rule of law is supposed to be, and it would be very, very wrong, from a constitutional point of view. I would like to stress that you have the responsibility not to decide here, perhaps with other groups, by motion how the State should deal with such an important legal procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u43	Finally, Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u44	The rule of law is, of course, a very important point for D66. I've looked into that, too, and I've discussed it with our experts. They have assured me that such a request can be made perfectly. It is, of course, up to the cabinet to take part in this or that, but an appeal to the cabinet not to waste money and time and to immediately answer the legal questions, which also need to be answered, in jump cassation, can be done excellently. My question to Mr Vos remains, however, what is the added value of the appeal for him. What does he think that adds to jump cassation? All parties have already indicated that they will go to the Supreme Court after that. Of course, everyone is free to do so. That is the essence of the rule of law. However, we can certainly call for a statement that has such a clear deadline as 2020 to say: save time and money, make sure that the trial is conducted before 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u45	I would like to ask the cabinet to explain why the cabinet has decided to appeal. I would also like to ask the cabinet to explain why it has not been decided to file a cassation in the interests of the law. Jumping is not for the cabinet but for the Attorney General. However, I do not wish to make a motion with you to the cabinet to skip that appeal. It is, of course, a bit of a debate trick to say that you make a request by way of motion. If a majority of the Chamber makes a request, that is a political fact. In doing so, we politicise justice in the Netherlands. I consider that to be wrong under state law. It doesn't fit in this country. You know that, too. I would therefore advise against it. I would not consider it appropriate for a party such as D66 to approach the political importance, an important element of our rule of law, in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u46	I think we all agree that this is an historic matter and an historic moment. At an historic moment it also comes to everyone personally and at their own consideration. We all know that the PvdA Group can make a difference. I therefore call on Mr Vos, in particular, but in fact the entire PvdA group, to take a good look in the mirror and ask themselves whether they want to make a difference at this historic moment. Or is the PvdA group following Mr Vos, who just said: I am not going to lie in front of it, although I understand that the trial will delay for two years, but believe me, I am in favour of the climate case. If it can't be done on the cassation side, it can be done on the measures side. Is the PvdA Group prepared to review the budgets and the tax plan so that we can start implementing additional measures in 2016?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u47	Many points are now folded into one question. I'm just gonna figure out where to start. Mrs Van Tongeren says that the PvdA is not doing anything, or is not doing enough, but I would remind her that no coalition in the last 15 years has paid so much attention to sustainability. We invest in this incredibly much. A lot of windmills are being built at sea, and a lot of windmills are being built on land, which many parties here in the Chamber are talking about because residents are being hindered by this. The number of solar panels in this country doubles every year thanks to the netting regulation. We have just talked about another scheme that has recently been improved to enable residents together to set up solar meadows. That is also a point that Mrs Van Tongeren is paying a great deal of attention to. There is a lot of investment in geothermal energy, but also in bio-generation plants. All this results in us moving from that scandalous 4% we sat on at the beginning of this cabinet period in terms of renewable energy generation to 16% of renewable energy. It is clear that this will not happen in one day. After all, we are talking about huge infrastructure projects. However, you will be there every day when we deal with the laws here in the Chamber, as a matter of urgency, in order to implement these projects. This society is going through a huge transition. That has not happened in the ten to fifteen years that are behind us, but it is happening now. I do not think it is a great secret to say that my group chairman, Diederik Samson, has put this forward with great emphasis in the formation, after which it all ended up in the coalition agreement. I really don't think it's right if it's pretended that the Labour Party isn't fully working on that transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u48	Trying to do things that make us move in the right direction is admirable. At some point, however, it comes down to whether you are doing enough, or whether you say you have tried bravely, but that it was very difficult because of the coalition, the VVD or the business community. Do you accept this or are you using this historic moment to ensure that sufficient measures are implemented in 2016? It should not be investigated, thought up or discussed, but implemented and introduced, so that the Netherlands should not be forced to Paris with shame on the jaws. The Labour Party has the key position. Mr Vos can continue to say that all Members of Parliament are co-responsible, but his group has the key position. We are prepared to support everything, but the PvdA must now give up: are we going to make changes in the budget and in the Tax Plan so that the -2,25% will be achieved by 2020?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u49	It applies not only to you, but also to Members of Parliament who are behind the speaker's seat: short interruptions and short reactions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u50	This is standing policy. A motion has been passed that GroenLinks co-signed, stating that we will implement those measures in 2016. The cabinet stated in the letter that Urgenda's ruling will be respected. I don't quite understand what the point is now. We are in the process of doing even more on top of the measures contained in the coalition agreement. If Mrs Van Tongeren says that we are only trying something and that this is not enough, I would remind her that we are investing 12 to 14 billion. You know that, too. I therefore find it a little unholy that you formulate it that way. You know that wind farms are currently being built on land at sea and windmills. You know there's a lot going on. That's not just a bit of a try, but a very carefully planned process in this small country that's going through a huge transformation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u51	The debate will take place through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u52	I have a brief question for the PvdA Group. The speaker wanted to start by singing praises for the measures taken by the cabinet. I am the first to recognise that measures are being taken. However, in the light of the judge's ruling, the question is whether it is enough. Does the PvdA Group believe that the National Energy Exploration, which will shortly be sent to the Chamber, shows such an energy mix that we can conclude that we are taking sufficient measures and that the share of renewable energy is sufficient to combat climate change?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u53	Thank you for recognising that all these measures are being taken. Mrs Dik is, of course, right. The judge said it's not enough and that more is needed. Then the Labour Party said that we are going to do more. We're gonna comply with the judge's ruling. Soit, the success of Urgenda. That's why I started giving compliments to that movement and to the excellent team that assisted that movement. We are therefore going to take additional measures to reduce CO emissions in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u54	One of the important measures to get to work is the Energy Agreement. During the hearing on this subject, someone from PBL said that we are only halfway through the energy agreement. Someone else said that with the current efforts, the State will achieve a 17% reduction in CO emissions by 2020. That's just not enough. Last week, the PvdA supported the motion to implement measures in 2016. Can we also count on the support of the PvdA to look at what is already possible to tighten up the measures when dealing with the budget and the Tax Plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u55	Mrs Dik-Faber has just explained in her own contribution that a number of very important reports are coming. It concerns the report of the Boring Committee of Mr Nijpels, the National Energy Exploratory and a number of other reports. She mentioned ECN and PBL. At the request of my group, the closure of coal-fired power stations was highlighted. We received a letter about that. In that letter, ECN and PBL stated that they could give a more detailed account of the elements which we should take into account if we were to shut down all coal plants in the Netherlands by mid-October. By the way, the cabinet has already shut down five coal power stations. Let us not forget that. Mrs Dik-Faber asks whether we are going to settle this for a moment in the course of the budget negotiations that are taking place this week. I refer her to her own argument that these important reports should be dealt with here as soon as possible and that a well-considered decision should be taken on that basis. It has to be fast, but it doesn't come about on those two or three months, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u56	On two points, however, I really object to the involvement of the Labour Party, starting with the suggestion that the judge has given us new information. The PvdA Group recognizes the climate problem as urgent, recognises the importance of the 2°C objective and knows what is needed. I'd like an answer to that. All those words about the stakes now I like and like, but the PvdA is not in a kindergarten class where you get points if you do your best. The PvdA is in the cabinet. The judge is talking about a tortious act. Is the PvdA prepared to put that first and choose as a starting point to silence its coalition partner, the VVD? That's what I'd do if I were in the cabinet. So is the PvdA prepared to say to the Cabinet today, if the Cabinet does not have convincing reasons to appeal because legal questions can also be answered in cassation, that we are not going to do so, we are not going to appeal, but we are going to get started?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u57	In general, I am opposed to the silence of political supporters and political opponents. Freedom of expression is one of the other elements of our rule of law, so I do not want to follow that suggestion. Mrs Ouwehand says that the court has provided new information, but I think that is not so much the case. I've read that statement, and I haven't seen a lot of new information. Mrs. Ouwehand says the state is being beaten by the judge. That is her wording, but I think she is coming a long way in the right direction. The court said, "State, you're not doing enough, you need to do more." Then the State said: we will do so, but we do not agree with you; we do want to appeal. The PvdA has also said that the court's ruling must be complied with. Mrs Ouwehand's contribution leaves only the element of kindergarten. I say to those who disavow the parliament: you should not do that. It is a respectable institution that we must deal with carefully. It is very special to have such a beautiful, lively democracy, and we should be proud of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u58	Sure. I would also like to be proud of the Labour Party, but I cannot do that today. Why doesn't that group choose to say at this unique moment: boys, we are accused of a tortuous act, whatever our political stances are? Of course I'll look at the VVD, because we can all reason who's stinking at it. Why does the Labour Party stick to this coalition idea: we have to do it together? Why does it not use this moment to say, with the support of the judge and the citizens of Europe, that Mr Vos is so proud of: everything now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u59	I don't quite understand, because we're doing everything we can. The court's ruling is fully respected and enforced. This is a huge success for Urgenda, for Mrs Ouwehand and even for the Labour Party, because I distinguish between my role as a parliamentarians and the role of our executives in the cabinet. I can only conclude that by doing so we have taken a new step forward in the direction of a carbon-polluting society towards an energy-neutral and CO-neutral society. I will continue to work very hard for this in the coming period. This brings me to the end of my term. I have been able to indicate most of the points I wanted to make in my answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u60	The Planning Office for the Environment and ECN have carried out a quick scan; of course, Mr Vos has seen it. There are some options to get that 15 megaton of CO. With two of them you would immediately arrive at 11 megatons, namely in the field of energy, i.e. coal power stations, and in the field of transport. Could he indicate more specifically which measures he considers most appropriate in this list to meet this additional reduction target?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u61	The hallmark of the discussion we have had up to now is precisely that we would like to take a careful decision and therefore call on ECN, PBL, Mr Nijpels with his Board of Directors, the National Energy Exploration Committee and a number of other experts. I have already said this; that is not a big secret either. If you shut down the coal plants, you will of course have significantly less C0 emissions. That is a real option for the Labour Party. If you limit emissions in traffic, which can be done in a variety of ways, then that also makes a very large contribution to the reduction of C0. If you scale the project Power acceleration, where houses are better isolated, scaled up and further executed, it has an effect. If Minister Blok would like to further reduce the interest rate on the energy saving fund, so that it becomes market-oriented or even something below it, and would like to reduce the bureaucracy around it, it would have an impact on the CO emissions of the Netherlands. In this way, we can continue to work together for at least half an hour to come up with measures. On the mix of measures, on the most cost-effective way to deal with it, which is also politically most supportive, and on the way it is legally possible to implement it, we really need to have a good exchange of views.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u62	Fine, but we now have this table...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u63	Your microphone's off.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u64	How do you do that? Are you gonna stand on a button and you can't hear me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u65	No, it was my fault and not Mr. Fox's. There's nothing behind that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u66	But I would expect, and I suspect Mr Vos that he really does have that list, that you will be able to set a number of priorities yourself. Now Mr Vos leaves it to the cabinet to propose measures that will bring you to that 15 megaton. But I suppose, knowing him, he's already made that list of priorities himself. Is he holding all his cards to the chest right now, or isn't that list there? Or is it: we'll see what people come up with?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u67	I'd like to leave the administration of this country to the cabinet. Mr Smaling and I have the task of controlling that administration. We will do the same on this point. I'm holding very few cards against the chest. I think everyone knows that list pretty well. Only, in order to determine exactly what we need to do, some further studies will have to be carried out. This study will undoubtedly give the cabinet an appreciation, and we will probably have another debate on this with each other under the leadership of Mrs Van Tongeren van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u68	Between doing something now and coming up with measures at the end of 2016 is of course a whole year. It would be a shame to waste too much time. I understand that Mr Vos wishes to await a number of investigations. They'll all be there by the end of the year. Then we should be able to reach that list by the first quarter of next year at the latest. Does Mr Vos agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u69	Mrs Van Veldhoven knows that governance is forward-looking. D66 likes to rule along and always tries to look ahead and pin down when we do something. There's already a motion that we're going to do that in 2016. Mrs van Veldhoven's name is underneath, mine and a number of spokesmen from other groups. That is what has already been given clear wine. Once again, everyone who has followed this debate knows that Mrs Van Veldhoven, Mrs Dik-Faber and I are convinced that we really need to wait for the important reports that will be published in the coming months before we can decide together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u70	I can only note that the Labour Party was very pleased with the fact that D66 wanted to help a number of times to ensure that certain reforms could be implemented. So I would like to thank Mr Vos for his compliments on sometimes growing up. What we are talking about here, let us not make a game out of it, and the question is whether there really is a sense of urgency in the Labour Party to take these measures as quickly as possible. That is why I say that there is still a year between taking measures now and waiting until the end of 2016 on the basis of the motion, so that those measures will have some effect in 2016. So that is a very small improvement step, but I ask Mr Vos whether he really feels the urgency today, or whether he shows ambition today. So, in the first quarter, let us try to arrive at such a list on the basis of the reports, but with urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u71	I would like to remind you that although Mrs Van Tongeren was on the scene as the applicant for this debate, we did so together. We organized a hearing together. We have already made the request before the summer recess, in order to be able to debate it immediately after the Urgenda ruling. That's the urgency I feel. So that also means that I will fire fire to the cabinet, the minister and the secretary of state in order to produce those reports as soon as possible, so that we can talk about it and take the decisions that are necessary. But I also think we should be careful. I hope that we can find a formula together again today in which we can lay down the wishes of the Chamber in such a way that it is clear to the cabinet what we want together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u72	Mr. Chairman. For the VVD, the importance of an ambitious environmental and climate policy is not under discussion, whether it is about reducing emissions, adapting to circumstances, reducing the damage that we might suffer as a result of gradual change or sudden extremes, stimulating green growth through innovation, removing barriers or strengthening emissions trading, which also gives a price to emissions. Or perhaps I should name the many opportunities for our business to make an international contribution to climate policy. The Netherlands has an ambitious climate policy. What is under discussion today is the political primacy in our democracy. Who in this country decides what happens? Who's the boss? Are those 17 million Dutch, or at least those who are going to vote? Or does sovereignty lie with the unelected judiciary, which does not have this legitimacy of the people in the country? The judge wasn't elected. The people's representatives are. The judge is not a policymaker. The House of Representatives is. The judge doesn't oversee everything either. Parliament is supposed to do that. Actually, it's very simple. In the elections, everyone will vote for parties who will then represent us. In this political arena, we then weigh those interests, whether they be care, education, safety or the environment. Then we make a decision and make a democratic decision. Of course, I would like to stress that, Mr President, everyone is free to get their rights through the courts, including the Urgenda interest group. This judge's ruling is also unique in its kind. I think it's a weird statement. The judge sat down in the chair of politics. Experts in state law also advise the decision of a higher court. The judgment has the potential to have such fundamental and far-reaching consequences that a judgment of the highest court is necessary. That is why it is right that the cabinet should appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u73	Mr Dijkstra began with a rather wondrous characterization of our judiciary compared to parliament. It means that you could lift the judiciary and bring any case before the parliament, which will oversee everything. Then almost my question to Mr Dijkstra would be: do you think that we no longer need the judiciary in the Netherlands? But that's not what this is about today. Let's ask the question what it's about. Mr Dijkstra says that this must be determined to the highest court. Then why not go straight to the Supreme Court? What is the added value for him of the intermediate step of the appeal? It's gonna cost a lot of money. I know that VVD as a party that always says we need to be sharp on the costs. So why waste all the time and all the extra costs for the appeal? What is the added value of this for Mr Dijkstra?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u74	I find this strange, especially from a party such as D66, which has a high regard for the rule of law. Lawyers are often members of that party. Mrs Van Veldhoven herself says that it is a historic, unique statement. I think it's weird, but then it's not enough to give it a short blow because it's convenient? Then it's important that we ask the Supreme Court what's going on? Then it is important, because of the case law, to make those considerations and to know who it is with. Is that us, or are we gonna let the judge decide everything for us? I think it's really weird that D66 doesn't want to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u75	Finally, Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u76	I can only say that Mr Dijkstra has not listened to my term. In that period I said that I think it is very important to ask the legal questions about the relationship: what does the judge do and what does the parliament do? Mr Dijkstra also says that we must go to the highest court. Exactly. So it's already clear. All parties will go to the Supreme Court. That is where the legal question has to be answered. That's important. The intermediate step of the appeal makes it possible to discuss the IPCC report once again, and my group does not see much added value in that. Legal questions need to be answered. You can do that directly with the Supreme Court. The state had hardly any comment during the ordinary trial. Then why do you have to take the intermediate step of the appeal before you go to the highest court? What is the added value for Mr Dijkstra? By the way, I'd really appreciate it if there was just a substantive answer instead of some kind of you-bake. Let's see if we can have a discussion at the heart of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u77	The VVD also has content in that Mrs Van Veldhoven asks for a lot to be noticed about this judge's ruling. The judge himself has already said that he is not a climate expert. He also says that his weighting is limited to the Netherlands. That is strange, because I believe that the climate problem is a global issue. The judge completely ignores the social consequences that this can have for society. He doesn't judge it in its entirety. He himself says that he sees no ground to assume that businesses or citizens are affected by this; he makes an assumption. He forgets that European climate policy has been coordinated. The judge says that you save the world by 25%, but that by 20%, which is the norm under the current Kyoto Protocol, the world is going to end. I think it's a bizarre statement. In substance, and in particular procedurally, you must challenge this judgment to the highest court, because it is important to understand who the power lies with in the Netherlands. Is that in Parliament or are we going to have only judges to decide what to do here? I think it's gonna go wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u78	I was equally honoured by Mr Dijkstra's statement that it cannot be the case that a party with four seats is going to enforce policy through the courts. I was extremely honored that GroenLinks has apparently now decided on government policy. We'd love to. However, my question is: isn't the VVD incredibly angry at the national attorney? In this case, the national attorney has said on many points that the State does not oppose what Urgenda is doing. The list is well known and Mr Dijkstra must have read the verdict. Is the point of the VVD actually that the land attorney screwed up, causing the state to lose? I see Mr Dijkstra nodding. Do you want another state attorney to be hired?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u79	In substance, we do not agree with the verdict, but the most important and fundamental question is who is in charge in the country. Are those the people who vote for a party through their voting rights? I have named a party of four seats, or a party of two seats; whatever. If you don't get right here in the Lower House and then an action group with the same thoughts goes to the judge to enforce that, then you have to ask yourself how democratic that is. That means that any action group in the Netherlands could get its right from the judge. That makes our parliament superfluous. This also means that tomorrow there will be an action group that will enforce that, according to the NATO directive, we will actually be spending 2% of the national product on Defence. Because we're not even close to doing that. Get one of these action groups on there tomorrow, and we're gonna do it. There could be an action group that would point out that we must comply with budgetary discipline. After all, you cannot have a sovereign debt higher than 60% or a deficit higher than 3% et cetera. What does that mean? If we let the judges, who are unelected, decide in this country from now on, then this parliament is out of play. That is why an appeal is a must, both substantively and in particular procedurally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u80	I am almost speechless. This does not often happen because of the lack of knowledge in the VVD about the establishment of our democratic rule of law. I can only conclude that this knowledge has completely disappeared with the departure of some of the people who did have some legal education from the group. Of course, any citizen can go to court. That's a fundamental right. I would like the VVD to confirm that she still understands that more or less. Yeah, any action group can go to court. I actually want to know from the VVD whether we still agree that if a judge decides, this judgment must also be enforced. Or doesn't that sentence have to be enforced if anyone thinks that sentence is weird?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u81	I think several questions have been asked. That's a luxury, because then you can go into whatever you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u82	Yes, you can select.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u83	Well, Mrs. Van Tongeren is a caterpillar-never-enough. What we do will never be enough for her. I would like to point out that we, together, are important...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u84	Well, it's especially important to keep the debate on the substance and not on the person.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u85	That's right. Together, we have a higher target, namely 40% CO reduction by 2030. The judge is now issuing the 25% ruling by 2020. It'll cut through part of that. However, the verdict is there and it is enforceable. We're gonna do that, too. However, the question is how we are going to do this and what measures we are going to take. As far as I'm concerned, we have five years to do that. We must make an informed choice for the measures we are going to take. What measures will we be discussing later? Mrs Van Tongeren, you may have a wish list, but the VVD takes responsibility and also looks at the acceptance, costs and benefits and all the consequences. I think it's important to get this all straight before tomorrow, so to speak, you decide to do something or leave it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u86	I am as shocked as the GroenLinks speaker for me. It really seems as if the VVD says that the government, which is there in my view to protect the interests of citizens, cannot be brought to justice by citizens who believe that their interests are not sufficiently protected. That would be a really weird phenomenon. Does the VVD think the hallway to the Supreme Court is careless?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u87	I believe that we should appeal, all the way, both substantive and procedural. Of course, everyone is free to go to court. So that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u88	If I listen carefully to Mr Dijkstra, the VVD wants an answer to the question whether the judge has sat on the seat of politics. That question can be answered by going to the Supreme Court. If I listen to the story carefully, the VVD says: we don't do that for a while; we choose the way of appeal. However, that takes much more time, energy and so on. As far as I am concerned, that is a waste of time, because the other corridor, through the Supreme Court, is much faster. Then the VVD Group will also have a faster answer to this question. If the VVD Group does not deny that this would be careless, why not go to the Supreme Court?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u89	In that case, you leave the substantive part aside, and we also have comments on that. I think that the country's lawyer should do a better job in this area, because I would point out that we have an ambitious climate policy. We can lard that with many examples. We've been doing a lot of things. Now we're being pretended we're not doing anything, but that's bullshit. We've been doing a lot of things. We have an ambitious climate policy. If the rest of the world did as much as the Netherlands and Europe did, we'd get somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u90	I am starting to get a clearer picture of the kindergarten level of this cabinet with the VVD as part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u91	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u92	The VVD considers appeal necessary, both substantive and procedural. The VVD often finds something and that is not always wise. We have organised a round table with legal scholars. They included people who advocated cassation as well as people who did feel for an appeal. We have discussed this at length. At the end of this round table, we asked everyone the following question: is it necessary to have the fundamental questions of law answered in order to appeal? Everyone said "no" and only one lawyer said he didn't know enough to answer that question. So the question is whether the VVD is looking for anything other than an answer to those fundamental questions of law or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u93	We support this decision for two reasons. Firstly, we want clarity from a higher judge on what this legal precedent is about. I have already said that the judge should not sit on the seat of politics. We need to balance our interests here. That shouldn't happen in court. We cannot see enough of the consequences of this. We have to be honest about that. Secondly, Mrs Ouwehand is asking for this, and the previous speakers too, according to the VVD, there is a great deal to be done about the judgment of the judge. I have just mentioned a few examples. Fortunately, the cabinet shares that view. The judgment is therefore also contested in substance. I think that is a good thing, because you want to know the content. Maybe there are holes in it, maybe not, fine, but then it's up to a higher judge and we really know what we're up to. In the meantime, we will execute the verdict. Mrs Ouwehand cannot be dissatisfied with this, because this means that we are simply aiming for 25% CO reduction by 2020 and 40% by 2030. We have an ambitious climate policy, so we have the same objective, including in terms of the pace at which it is to be done. The judge has now ruled that it needs to be speeded up. We're gonna get that straightened out and then see what it takes. We are particularly concerned about the legal question of such a precedent. How far can the judge go? I would like to make that clear, and I will be asking questions about this to the Secretary of State in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u94	There is no difference of opinion on that last point in the Chamber; that was also the subject of the round table. The answer is that those questions of principle can be answered in cassation. However, I see a coalition partner here who says that she wants to re-examine the content of the discussion, while the other coalition partner wants the Chamber to believe that the issues of principle are at stake. I'm curious to hear the answer from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u95	That was a comment, not a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u96	That's right. I'm looking forward to it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u97	I would also ask Members to avoid qualifications as a 'pre-school'. This is an important institution and such words do not do justice to the members of the Chamber. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u98	Thank you, Mr President, but you did get a few seconds of my speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u99	I'll keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u100	The precedent effect for the VVD is the main argument for the appeal. I have just emphasised this. It is important that this is clarified, otherwise any action group can go to court to do the same on the basis of duty of care and international conventions. This means that the people's representatives are out of the question. I don't want to. The full balance of interests between all the points on which we have to decide belongs in this political arena. I would have liked Minister Plasterk to be here because of the constitutional aspect, but apparently he has something more important to do or no room in his busy agenda. That is why I ask the Secretary of State, who fortunately also deals with climate issues, how the cabinet in this case judges the trias politicians. Where does the cabinet think the balance of interests belong? What is the content of this ruling and the judge's assessment? What message was the Land Attorney sent to court? How could it have come to this? Why did many substantive issues remain undisputed, things that I believe are demonstrably incorrect? Since we did not dispute them, there was no need for the court to rule on them. The VVD supports the appeal in both procedural and substantive terms. Meanwhile, we are working together and with great ambition on our climate policy. We have an objective that the rest of the world cannot match; I say it again, because it was laughed at. If you look at what the Netherlands is doing with 40% in 2030, you'll see that no country in the world matches that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u101	Mr Dijkstra stressed the good climate policy. One reason for taking up this matter was that we are pursuing a minimum level of 25%. I believe that since Cancun we have signed that this is the goal. It is now clear that we are moving at 17% or 18%. How can you say that climate policy is okay when the difference is so demonstrably large?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u102	That is one of the objections. The judge looked at the situation according to what he was presented with. I wonder whether the judge has taken into account what we have started with the energy agreement over the last two years. If the energy agreement is fully implemented, in my opinion we will reach more than 17%, perhaps even 21%. In doing so, we comply with the most recent commitments that we endorsed in Doha in the Kyoto Protocol, which is based on 20% by 2020. All Western countries, all 55 countries participating, have this percentage. I therefore find it strange that the judge says that 20% is insufficient and that at least 25% will be fine. I did the math. Based on the old 2010 figures, the Netherlands is responsible for 0.42% of global emissions. So we have to bridge the gap between 17% and 21% to the necessary 25%. You can feel good about it or not, but we will do 0.00068% extra. I believe that all social costs and benefits should first be identified. It will then be possible to determine what is effective. This does not relieve the Netherlands of its responsibility, because we have to do something. We are doing the same, but we must continue to see this in perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u103	What then is needed to get you back into that mode of the Winsemius/Nipples period, when the VVD also saw that great changes are needed? The transition from fossil to sustainable does not have to cost jobs or economic growth, but then it is green growth and not grey growth. For Mr Dijkstra's proposals on recycling and so am I, but those are not seven-mile boots; they are very small steps in high heels. Why doesn't Mr Dijkstra simply take the side of the majority of the Chamber to use the ruling to increase the pace?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u104	Sure, the verdict is there, so we have to comply; very simple. But there are several ways to achieve that goal. I'm gonna name one that a lot of people might not like. We can meet our obligations by going to the stock market on Thursday 31 December 2020 and buying up allowances there. Then we're ready for x-million and we've met our target. We will not throw these allowances into the fireplace, because that will result in CO emissions again, but we will store them neatly and we will not market them anymore. I don't see that solution yet and I'm just gonna put it on the table right now. So there are several roads to Rome. You can also shut down coal power stations and so on. The VVD has solutions. We'd like to talk to the Chamber about that. This debate is primarily about whether or not to appeal and why. I see, as Mr Smaling said, a huge opportunity in green growth, circular with fuels. Those may indeed be small things, but they also contribute and care about windmills. Our primary instrument is to strengthen emissions trading and ensure that CO has a price. If there is a price for it, you save the most CO cost-effectively. We must make every effort to strengthen emissions trading, and I have already made six proposals for this in May, for example. These are in the hands of the European Commission. So it's been set in motion. The misunderstanding that we're not doing anything is bullshit. Let us just let the market do its job, look at the most efficient means and see what the consequences are. Otherwise, we're gonna do stupid things and turn buttons that we're gonna regret later. You shouldn't have that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u105	That was a very long reaction. I give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u106	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands seems very unlikely to meet the target set by ourselves as a government to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 25% in 2020 compared to 1990. On the basis of current policy, the government in the Netherlands may reach 17% by 2020. Many people in society are concerned about this, about themselves and certainly about the future of their children. A number of residents and Urgenda found that an important reason for the government's policy to be reviewed by the court. They brought the case to justice. Probably to the surprise of many, the Urgenda court has also agreed. The statement is seen by many as encouraging the fact that the climate problem really needs to be addressed seriously. Until far beyond national borders, this statement has not missed its impact. The need for the Netherlands to take steps to achieve the objectives is absolutely clear. However, we understand that the government is going to appeal. A higher appeal is necessary to enable the Court to finally review the facts established by the court. In fact, during the round table, Mrs Minnesma also said that they had followed the same route as the ruling had been the other way around. So why don't we give ourselves that careful route, too? In our view, this is not sufficiently possible in the case of cassation. It is a very important statement, for the Netherlands, but also for the world. In the appeal announced, it must be decided whether the separation of powers has been correctly applied, precisely in order to avoid a precedent. We have already discussed this in detail here this morning. Everyone also thinks that this should be done. At the same time, the CDA believes that measures to reduce CO emissions should be speeded up. That is precisely why the CDA tabled a motion earlier this month with colleague Van Tongeren and Faber to bring forward the review of the energy agreement in 2016. In this way, Parliament can make a serious statement on all the different options when it comes to the budget, and we can say which way we are going with them. At present, the interdepartmental policy research on the effectiveness of CO2 reduction measures is also being carried out. We must also be able to measure this effectiveness. Why is this so important to the CDA now? Because we have also taken measures in the past, such as tax measures for cars, to which we have spent billions of dollars, which has actually had no effect. If you are spending so much money on climate measures, we believe that you should look at them very carefully and carefully. We want to give ourselves this time and that space for care, because it is something important for the future of us and our children. We now want to take the right measures and look at what we are spending the money on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u107	Of course, I regret that the CDA is not in favour of jump cassation but wants to appeal. Of course, the CDA, like other parties, also wants the verdict to be enforced. I assume the CDA is aware that ECN and PBL say that if you don't start in 2016, you're definitely not gonna make it by 2020. I was really unpleasantly surprised that the CDA did not vote in favour of the Klever motion, which calls on the government to start implementing additional measures in 2016. It does not contain any measures. Nor does it say that it should only be too expensive measures. That's not what we're here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u108	The question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u109	The question is why the CDA says here that the verdict must be enforced if a motion is to be tabled to ensure that measures are taken in 2016, votes against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u110	I believe that, by tabling the motion I have just spoken about, together with Mrs Van Tongeren and Mrs Dik-Faber, we have already made it quite clear that we think this is important, that we would also like to highlight the evaluation, that we also want to include the IBO report and look at its effects. We want to do this carefully. Suppose, if we were to follow the line of the cabinet, which would not be the CDA's proposed line, we would have preferred that evaluation to be made that we would not be able to make the right assessment because the reports with the measures would all come to the House of Representatives much later. Then you could get into a time jam at the end of 2016. We thought that was risky. That is why we have said that you must take measures and then perhaps get into trouble with the care of your consideration. That's what the CDA said they didn't want. So we prefer to bring forward the evaluation. I would ask the cabinet again today to bring forward this evaluation, along with all the other important documents that will come to us at the end of this year. As far as I am concerned, we will be able to make guiding statements in the first quarter of next year and give the cabinet whatever it should include in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u111	I hear it was probably a vote error at the Klever motion. I'm glad. I would like to know from the CDA what kind of measures are in the list we have all been looking at the same set of measures that the CDA wants to support. I do not want an answer that we wait and see the investigations. It is a very difficult problem, it has to be chosen now and we cannot extend it indefinitely for us. The CDA must bear in mind the measures to be taken, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u112	That is why we will have the budget debate later. It will not surprise you, as we have said before, that we consider it very important that the energy transition should really come from below. So we think it is important that local energy initiatives also get the wind going. We are also going to talk about this in the Tax Plan, but also in the energy and EZ budgets. And we think it is important for the CDA to work on how companies are actually doing that battle. We were just on the Square, Mrs Minnesma also indicated this morning what we hear ourselves through all kinds of channels, that companies are very busy working on this theme and how it can now be shaped. If we could also achieve the objectives through additional efforts from the business community, then I think we should seriously consider this. That is not quite clear at the moment. One more sentence, Mr President, I really need to explain this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u113	The interruptions are very long and so are the reactions. I believe that this debate will take place with the rulers as well. So I would really react briefly and not comprehensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u114	We think it is very important that we work together to make these houses more energy efficient. That is absolutely a direction in which the CDA thinks. That will not surprise Mrs Van Tongeren, because we debate these important issues more often. This line of reasoning has been attached to the CDA for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u115	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u116	Today, therefore, we are again calling on the cabinet to draw attention to the evaluation of the energy agreement. We hope to have a positive response from the government today. I come to energy saving and innovation. We want to go for employment and innovation, thus achieving our goals. When does the government intend to come up with measures, when can they be discussed in Parliament and when can they be implemented? How can we achieve the target of 25% reduction by 2020? I would like a response from the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment. This week we have heard staggering reports about the Volkswagen group. Test results were forged there. Especially when it comes to the approach at source, the confidence of residents is important. CO emissions must also be tackled here. Is it an incident, or is it more widespread with test results being tampered with? I'd like a response from the cabinet. Trust has suffered a deep dent. The question is to what extent our leaders can do something about this at European level. Does the government believe that the Real Driving Emission Regulation should be introduced more quickly after these staggering revelations? The CDA would like to speed up new testing procedures. Does the Minister see any possibility of bringing this up soon in the European Council? We often do resource policies at European level. This scandalous event must be properly addressed so that we can achieve our objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u117	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands produces around 0.4% of global CO emissions as a country. That's not nothing, but it's very little. CO or carbon dioxide is not a toxic substance at all, but according to many scientists it contributes to global warming. However, there are also scientists who have doubts about this. CO is the product of burning fossil fuels such as oil, gas and coal. Because every Dutchman consumes energy, every Dutchman also contributes to these CO emissions. We cannot do without fossil fuels, no one, neither can GroenLinksers. Many parties in this Chamber want to reduce the CO emissions from the Netherlands. Of course, there is nothing against saving energy, but reducing the CO emissions of the Netherlands too quickly can also lead to loss of prosperity. The Netherlands is an open economy and Dutch workers and companies have to fight hard every day in order to remain competitive with abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u118	This is a special moment. I note that the PVV no longer supports the view that the climate problem does not exist. Mr Madlener says that there are people who say it exists and there are people who say it doesn't exist. Did I get that correctly? If so, the PVV will move a little bit, and I very much welcome that. I have also had to adjust my own views on several occasions in my political life. Also in my personal life, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u119	Thank you for sharing that with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u120	I find it special that the PVV says today that the climate problem may exist. That's a first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u121	I'm not the one who decides whether or not it exists. I look at science and I see science is divided. Many scientists think that the climate problem is caused by human action, but there are also a lot of scientists who think that other causes contribute to it, such as the sun. That's all I'm saying here. There are scientific doubts as to whether man is really responsible for global warming. I would like to mention these doubts here, because a lot of parties pretend that it is 100% certain that it is CO emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u122	98% of scientists, the President of the United States and all parties in the House of Representatives, except the PVV, have so far agreed that the climate problem exists. I note that the opposition of the PVV has been adjusted to a position of hesitation and doubt, and that is a welcome moment. I wish you every success in continuing your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u123	That wasn't a question either. Please continue, Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u124	My party has always pointed out the scientific uncertainty on this point. You shouldn't act like all the scientists agree. That's what the PvdA does, but that's a mistake of thinking. I pointed that out. I had stuck to the observation that many parties in the Netherlands want to reduce CO emissions and that of course we are not against energy saving. If you do that too quickly, it can lead to loss of wealth and loss of competitive capacity. Of course, we have to keep our eyes open. We are an open economy and have to compete every day. Much production has moved in recent years. I would like to tell that to the PvdA Group and I have had a lot of discussions on this with Mr Samsom in the past. Much production has been moved to energy-slurping countries like China. If fossil energy saving is going to cost money, we must be careful that the Netherlands is not lagging behind and that the Netherlands can no longer compete on the world market. The environment is important, but if production is moved to countries that do not take it so closely with the environment, then the world will not get any better. The Netherlands, however, is becoming poorer. Some parties in this Chamber do not seem to care. They are shouting that the Netherlands must always be at the forefront of tough demands and have no regard for the impact that policy can have on our prosperity, our jobs and our business. The Netherlands currently emits less CO than in 1990. The United States emits more CO than in 1990 and China now emits four times as much CO as in 1990. I would like to say that the Netherlands is doing relatively well in terms of the environment. We really need to be careful not to lose our prosperity as a result of excessive environmental requirements. Whether and what environmental measures the Netherlands is taking must be democratically decided and not by the courts. The judgment of the judge in the Urgenda case is not only unique in the world, it is also a potentially very damaging ruling for our country. It is also a question of whether the judge could have made that judgment. I will not go further in the legal sustainability of this ruling, but it feels very uncomfortable. Lawyers therefore consider that there is a good chance that this ruling will not be upheld by appeal. Therefore, the PVV supports the government's decision to appeal this ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u125	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u126	Mr. Chairman. We are all convinced of the need to combat climate change. The cabinet therefore stands for ambitious climate policy. This is demonstrated by our global, European and national commitment. For example, at a global level, we have made a strong commitment in recent years to a high level of involvement of non-state actors. Those are actually just different parties from the government: companies, cities, municipalities and NGOs. It's been a success. For example, it has led to regular consultations between industry and climate ministers. It is Thursday now, and that means that in New York the day after tomorrow I will talk to international companies about their role in the green economy, the circular economy and an economy that ensures that the climate is going well. Last Friday, at the Environment Council, the long-term objective of the Netherlands became part of the European mandate and negotiations. This means that it is now written in black and white that the EU is striving for climate neutrality and climate reversibility in the second half of this century. They seem to be just words, it seems simple, but this way more and more anchor points are coming to our common goal. I am also responsible for the execution of the court's judgment. That must be done responsibly and properly. Effective measures should be chosen from all possible measures. These are measures which, compared to the costs incurred, produce the most results and have political and social support. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna move on to the jump cassation now. The decision of the Cabinet, the measures and the Klever motion will be dealt with by the Minister for Economic Affairs. We're using the results of the ongoing investigation, because that's why we're not wasting time and no public money. Apparently that is very important for the D66 group, because Mrs Van Veldhoven explicitly mentioned it in the context of the appeal. After all, we can only spend money once on care, education or climate. So we need to make sure that we get the best outcome. This also helps us to ensure that we have the necessary support. That's how we execute the verdict. One of the first questions was what is meant by sound climate policy. I was surprised by that question. As far as I am concerned, solid climate policy is ambitious, realistic and consistent. Each time we have to ask what we can do to the maximum, how realistic it is to think that we are achieving the goal and how consistent we are. This is particularly what industry is asking for. We have put in place clear policies for the period up to 2020, and that is the way forward. Internationally, it's exciting times as we head for the top. A number of Members, especially Mr Smaling, have stressed that in the coming weeks, international climate policy will be a major step forward, both in the negotiations and in what we want to achieve in Paris. We want to conclude an ambitious, flexible and transparent climate agreement with as many parties as possible. As far as I am concerned, this is not just about the 194 countries, because many more parties need to be involved. That is the international aspect. Nationally, the Chamber and the Cabinet are urged to formulate climate policy. That makes sense, because the debate must be held where it should be held. That's right here in the political arena. Due to the verdict in the case brought by Urgenda, that discussion shifts to the courtroom. The question is whether the judge sat down on the seat of parliament and government. Partly for this reason, the cabinet has decided to have the judgment reviewed by a higher judge on four points. These are: the duty of care, the state's policy freedom, the causal link between emissions in the Netherlands and the danger posed by climate change and the determination and interpretation of the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u127	The Secretary of State says that we stand for an ambitious climate policy, which has led to success, that we are now talking to companies and that Europe is aiming for climate-neutral economies. Fortunately, she herself added that those seem words. I think it is important to discuss not only ambitions in this debate, but also where there is real willingness and courage to do something. Does the government still believe that climate change is a major and urgent problem and that it is necessary to limit it to a maximum of 2°C? That means a few things for what we should do next.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u128	We have indeed said that the 2°C limit is an important one. I also hope that we will be able to establish this in Paris.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u129	I'd like to have it sharper anyway. Does the Cabinet consider that it is necessary to limit climate change to a maximum of 2°C?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u130	Like I said, I think it would be an important milestone. However, I would like to know how we can get that on paper in Paris.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u131	My question wasn't about Paris. My question concerns the opinion of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u132	I just turned it in. I think it is important that we note that climate neutrality and climate resilience must be achieved in the second half of this century. I did that in the Environment Council last Friday. That means zero emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u133	With the Party for Animals I am suddenly troubled. I have repeatedly asked Minister Kamp and I have repeatedly received confirmation, for him from Minister Verhagen, that the 2°C objective is endorsed by the cabinet. The Secretary of State is now creating some fog about it. I would like to make it clear that we are no longer allowed to say 'clip-and-ready' that this cabinet believes that it is important for the world to achieve the 2°C objective. How we get there, let's go in the middle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u134	I said it was an important milestone for us. I have added that I would like it to be clear on paper in Paris, but we will see it in Paris.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u135	I would find it very strange if a secretary of state of PvdA origin suddenly failed to agree with the objective. Does the cabinet agree to the 2°C target?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u136	I just answered that. Yeah, that's the landmark for the cabinet. I don't see any fog. Mrs Van Tongeren is experiencing fog, but it is not there as far as I am concerned. They asked why they didn't choose jump cassation. I think that is the most important question from almost all the groups...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u137	I would like to come back to the previous point. The Secretary of State indicated why the cabinet is appealing. One of the four blocks was that the causal link between emissions in the Netherlands and climate change is questioned. If we question that causal link, what are we doing at all with the Dutch climate and energy policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u138	I have said that we are going to have the statement checked on four points. We filed an appeal yesterday and these are the four main topics. We will put the content of this on paper in the next week, because, of course, there must also be a substantive appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u139	Does the Secretary of State really doubt that there is a causal link between emissions in the Netherlands and climate change? That would be a very separate step in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u140	We have said earlier that the question is to what extent the Netherlands can make an effective contribution to reducing global emissions. Our emissions are 0.4% or even less of global emissions. The large emission countries are, of course, at different rates. In that context, that causal relationship is considered. It has been asked: why doesn't the cabinet go directly to the Supreme Court in jump cassation? The Court of First Instance is no longer able to challenge the finding and interpretation of the facts in the event of a jump-off at the Supreme Court. As far as we are concerned, the court has not correctly established a number of facts. The court has applied an interpretation of the facts on points which the State does not agree with. In assessing whether the State should do more to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the Court builds on the facts and principles it has established. If these facts and principles cannot be contested or judged by a higher court, then that is not correct. A State-positive ruling by the Supreme Court does not give a final assessment of the substance. This dispute will then be referred back to the Court, thus potentially prolonging the overall procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u141	Then why did the national attorney not object to the finding of those facts during the trial?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u142	The pronunciation is a long epistle of several dozen pages. I'm not saying it's okay if we analyze those pages here. The conclusion is that we want to appeal, that we have filed that appeal and that that will be the next step.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u143	I think the argument "I want it because I want it" is never the most convincing. The Secretary of State argues that the judge's ruling is based on a number of facts which the State is now challenging. Then a very logical question is: why are they not disputed in the process that has just been done?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u144	A number of facts have been contested and a number of facts can be contested. The state's conduct of the trial is set out in the pages before the Chamber. We're going to take that step now. The Chamber knows why we want to do the jump cassation. I have always been very transparent about this. I reported to the Chamber in September. I just got word from the Room about that this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u145	I would like to add a few words to the fact that the Dutch cabinet apparently no longer supports the 2°C objective. But is it true that the cabinet is really shocked and now the lawyer has turned upside down by saying: you haven't done your best; we're going to get to the bottom of everything to get out of this? Meanwhile, the cabinet also says: of course climate change is important; we are going to execute the verdict. What is it? Is the state going to do everything it can to enforce that sentence and to combat climate change? Or are we going to bend our heads to get out of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u146	Firstly, I have not been unclear about the 2°C objective. Secondly, from day one, the cabinet said that we are carrying out the sentence. The Chamber knows that there is an ibo (interdepartmental policy investigation) currently running. We think it is very important to see whether all measures are weighted equally and in the same way. That's what happens in that ibo. It is important to also consider the costs of action against greenhouse gases and what are effective. After all, the question is: what is possible and what is effective, but what is actually effective before 2020? What would be effective after that? What are the costs involved? That weighting needs to be made right, because we can come up with a lot of measures, and I have had a lot of input from a lot of parties who have put forward measures, but it is important that they are weighed properly. Measures that may have strong political support can be effective but not, for example, before 2020. That weighting must be carried out properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u147	I am pleased to note that the Secretary of State has in any case confirmed that the judgment is being enforced, even if it may be overturned on appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u148	The Empire is quite free to appeal to the Court of Justice, as I said in my first term, but I still get the impression of the bad loser when I hear the State Secretary's argument. We saw last Sunday that the requesting party prepared this case extremely carefully. That demanding party isn't crazy either and thought: it's quite what we're dealing with here. Wasn't the state's attorney just prepared? Why does the Secretary of State now come up with all kinds of substantive arguments, even though you can assume that everything has been prepared to the point and is part of the verdict that we have heard?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u149	I find it remarkable that the term "bad loser" is used. A year and a half ago, when Urgenda started the business, I said that I am okay with using the roads that exist. But if there is a ruling that is such that we are wondering whether the position the judge has taken can have an effect on other policies, it is logical that we want to be clear from a higher court. In it, we can take the facts as interpreted by the judge. Of course, we do not dispute a number of facts at all. With the aim of at least -20% for 2030, the Netherlands was the first to enter Europe. Europe has taken on this ambition. Europe by far has made the most ambitious bid on the global playing field. In fact, that offer was at least 40%. The task now is to seduce the rest of the world to go with that 40%. If that succeeds, we can commit to it. Hence the minimum 40%. I think we still have a long way to go there, on which I am not always optimistic. But I'm naturally an optimistic person.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u150	If you'd chosen that jump cassation, you'll get answers to questions we're all curious about. But if the Secretary of State will be in the spotlight in Paris, she will be regarded as someone who saw this trial happen. You can use that to your advantage. Nota bene in Pakistan was recently given a ruling on climate change, in which a farmer was the demanding party. We're trendsetters. In Paris, the Secretary of State can become a gangmaker and forerunner because of what has happened here over the last few months. The appeal will delay that. Then you're not happy and you're throwing your ass against the crib. I think that's a shame, because the Secretary of State is gonna let that go.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u151	I do not think that Mr Smaling's statements on dissatisfaction do apply at all to the Netherlands and the global commitment. We have said that we are going to execute this sentence in stock. There's an ibo running. The Minister will deal with a number of substantive issues in the near future, as well as the Klever motion. I think it is important that we take up the implementation of this right away. That's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u152	The judge went to a lot of trouble and needed 57 pages to pass a verdict. It even quotes the Secretary of State himself. The state's attorney has let it run a little bit in my opinion. Should we now conclude afterwards, especially since the Secretary of State himself is cited in the verdict, that it is not all so convenient and that the Secretary of State has dropped a few stings that need to be repaired now? Were we to assume that the case would go unpunished and that the case would be dismissed as inadmissible? Is there any understatement? I'm getting that feeling really strong. 'Cause we didn't argue much. Fortunately, we are now going to do so, but of course we should have done so much earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u153	Mr Dijkstra asked what message the lawyer was sent on his way. The government's position is factually and legally different from that of Urgenda. All these points have been brought to the court and will be re-introduced to the court. The court didn't take over all those points. That is why the cabinet appeals against this ruling, regardless of how it relates in the trias politicians. Can this have an impact on other policy areas? On some points, as I have already pointed out, there is no difference, for example, with regard to the existence of climate change and the fact that it is a serious problem. The dispute with Urgenda concerns only the degree of reduction by 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u154	Mr Dijkstra, another supplementary question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u155	It's true what the Secretary of State says, but the judge gives it his own twist. The Secretary of State rightly said that you need to see climate policy in a global perspective, but the judge has given it its own twist. It says: I am only about the Netherlands and I think that the Netherlands should do more. So there has been reason to come to such a strange verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u156	That's why we're going to refer the verdict to a higher court. Of course, it's important to see how a higher judge looks at this ruling. I will execute the judge's sentence as it is now. The Chamber and I know the lists and studies with proposals for technical measures to achieve this 25% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. That's what I just said. However, this also includes a thorough study with insight into the social costs and side effects, including an assessment of which long-term measures also contribute positively to our climate goal. Only on that basis can a proper balance be made. Mr Kamp will continue to discuss the measures and everything that has been mentioned in relation to all the studies that have been carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u157	Let me talk about the consequences of this climate policy. I hear the Secretary of State say that we are simply going to execute that verdict. But I have to say that the judge's ruling is far above the line we are heading for. So that means there's still a lot coming at us. Does the Secretary of State understand that if you increase electricity prices enormously here or take other measures that harm our business, then those jobs will be moved to China? We can close Hoogovens here, but if China takes over that production, it really doesn't get any better. Does the Secretary of State understand that the Netherlands is not an island economically?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u158	It is important to assess whether the measures are effective, what they cost, not only about the financial impact of these measures, but also about whether they are acceptable. Those questions need to be answered and it is therefore important that all measures be examined and reviewed first, and that they be clarified as to what is effective. Maybe there are some follow-up questions. There's an ibo coming. And the cabinet wants to prepare a response to that but also see what else should be investigated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u159	Whether measures are effective? It may well be that it is effective in the Netherlands, and that if Hoogovens closes in the Netherlands, we have fewer emissions. But is the Secretary of State also looking at the transfer of Dutch prosperity and jobs abroad? Is she going to test that effectiveness? And does she also look at the jobs it would cost here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u160	I do not want to shuffle it, but the Minister for Economic Affairs will answer the questions about the measures and their effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u161	I'll go on where Mrs. Van Tongeren ended up. I have a specific question for the Secretary of State. She says she's going to execute the verdict. Will she also enforce the judgment if it is overturned on appeal? Will the -25% for 2020 and the 2030 target continue to stand and will the cabinet do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u162	I'm generally inclined not to go into like-dan questions. I'm not gonna do that here either. There's gonna be an appeal. I have no idea what the sequel will be like. In case of stock there has to be delivered. That means that we are simply going to execute the verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u163	That is important because the cabinet says: we are going to execute the verdict. But now it's just saying: we're gonna execute the verdict as long as the trial goes on. That is an important clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u164	I have in front of me the letter from the Secretary of State in which she writes: I'm going to execute the sentence. At the same time, reference is made, including in this debate, to all kinds of studies that are still taking place. If we know together that we really need a shovel on top of it, what has been shown in recent weeks that additional measures are being taken? Now I see we're just gonna keep doing the things we already wanted to do. We're gonna run some tests. At the same time, the Secretary of State says on behalf of the cabinet: we are going to execute the verdict. I think there's some kind of discrepancy between that and that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u165	I would find it extremely careless if we now start at some point in all the lists that exist, without having an equal weighting of the various measures. I think it is important that all measures are co-ordinated and weighed equally. That ibo is running now. I think it's important that we wait and see. Fortunately, we are entering an ongoing investigation, which we can look at with this view, and which we can assess on the basis of this situation. The ibo doesn't run for years. I think it is important that we wait for the results and look very closely at the effects of the measures. Are these actual impacts before 2020, or are they effects that only occur long after? We are talking about the 2020 target, so it is important that we look very closely when what effects occur to reach 25%. That needs to be looked at. I understand that Mrs Dik-Faber is impatient, that graces her, but we need to look carefully and carefully before we take steps. I believe that good steps should be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u166	In fact, the Secretary of State says that there are still a lot of investigations going on and that we will not start to carry out the verdict until all the investigations are on the table, the cabinet has expressed its position and the Chamber has held the debate on it. How much longer do we have to wait for that? And how am I supposed to interpret this when I reject the statement made by Minister Koenders in Alaska that it is not five to twelve, but twelve hours? We can't afford that time, can we? Surely there are measures, such as energy saving, which we can start working on right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u167	Mrs. Dik-Faber pretends we're not working on anything. That is, of course, a strange observation. I do not know how the Minister for Economic Affairs is going to formulate it, but I have a small suspicion that he is going to list what is already happening. The cabinet has taken steps to achieve a number of goals. There is a comprehensive package of measures. Mrs Dik-Faber suggests that we are only now going to look at investigations and that we would only do something afterwards. I think that is a very incorrect interpretation. It is important that we know what effective measures are. After all, we need to know quickly how to achieve this 25% by 2020. The suggestion is raised that we are doing all this with the idea that we are going in a different direction when there is a new statement. However, we cannot know how things are going to turn out. The cabinet has said that it implements the verdict. The cabinet has said that it is looking at CO reduction measures in ibo, how it can assess these measures and whether they can actually be effective by 2025. I think we're working on it very actively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u168	Is the cabinet coming up with a set of proposals for budgetary and tax changes so that we can comply with the judge's ruling in this climate case?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u169	That too is an assumption for which we first need to know what measures are effective to achieve the 25%. So first we need to know what we have weighed and what can be effective. What steps are taken then, we decide only afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u170	Mrs Van Tongeren, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u171	There is one free measure. That's lowering the speed limit. All other measures involve costs or investments. They will have to be reflected in the budget or in the tax plan. I therefore like to hear a clear yes or no. Will there be changes to the tax plan and to the 2016 budget or will there not be changes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u172	There is no answer to that. I have said what steps we are taking first to see what measures are effective to implement the verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u173	The CDA has indicated that it would like to highlight the evaluation of the Energy Agreement. During an interruption, the group also indicated that it would like the measures to be clear at the beginning of next year, after all the investigations that will follow. Does the Secretary of State see the opportunity to present this to the Lower House in the first quarter? I can imagine that not everything is 100% crystallized at the time, but then we have the direction and we can discuss from that point of view whether further questions need to be examined. For example, the 2017 budget can actually take steps. How does the Secretary of State view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u174	That also depends, of course, on what comes out of the investigations. The cabinet said: in the first half of 2016. That is to ensure that we can keep our agreement. Whether that's four, five or six in months, I can't say right now. This depends on the outcome of the investigations being carried out and on whether additional cases are needed. It is important that, in order to implement the 25%, there should be a package that is effective. That will have to be put together first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u175	Is the Secretary of State prepared to make an undertaking that we will be able to discuss these investigations before next year's summer recess? Then we can also indicate a direction, so that we can do something about the 2017 budget. I'd like to hear if the Secretary of State will at least try to make that possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u176	The letter states that the cabinet will respond in the first half of 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u177	I am sorry, but this is not yet the commitment that we can actually talk about this before the summer recess. Otherwise it will just be lifted over the summer recess again, and before you know it, we will again be unable to involve the measures in the budget treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u178	When the cabinet says that it will react in the first half of 2016, that means that the word "directive" can certainly give meaning to that and that the Chamber has at least material to talk about the direction before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u179	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u180	This is my answer, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u181	Madam President. My colleague has already indicated the points on which we consider it important to obtain a ruling on appeal. Maybe I can take some of those points out on my own responsibility. The first point that we think is right to have it re-assessed is the hard 25% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions imposed on the Netherlands by the year 2020. The court assumes that there is an absolute, scientific lower limit, which would apply to individual states such as the Netherlands. That's not true. It concerns investigations by the IPCC, the United Nations club which collects, assesses and provides comments on all climate data. On the contrary, that IPCC did not set any fixed standards. They have multiple scenarios, multiple expectations. On this basis, there has been a result, but it cannot be translated into individual states for the year 2020, as the judge in the case of the Netherlands did in this judgment. That is the first point. The second point is that the judge states that the reduction of greenhouse gases must take place entirely on Dutch soil. However, this means that instruments that we have agreed internationally to meet the Kyoto target set at the time should not be used. Kyoto rights represent emission reductions elsewhere in the world. Mr Dijkstra spoke about this. Buying up Kyoto rights does not result in a reduction on Dutch soil, but it does achieve the desired effects on the climate. So we do not think it is logical to say that this reduction should take place entirely on Dutch soil, thereby ignoring what was agreed in Kyoto. Now I come to the third point. By the way, the points I mention are not exhaustive. There's more. But the third point that will also have to be assessed in substance is that the judge ignores the functioning of the European Emissions Trading System ETS. Mr Dijkstra also mentioned this. The ETS is a European agreement. It has its European emission ceiling. This includes the whole energy sector and also energy-intensive industries. If we achieve emission reduction in these sectors in the Netherlands, the effect of the ETS is that it will be completed elsewhere in Europe. On balance, you won't achieve anything for the climate. The only thing the Netherlands could do is firstly to take measures and secondly to buy ETS rights from the market, corresponding to what the Netherlands has achieved with those measures. That would mean we're making two costs. The first time, we are costing to ensure that these measures are implemented, and the second time, we are costing to buy ETS rights from the market. Twice making costs is not cost-effective. It is important that the court makes a new substantive assessment and assessment of these things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u182	I can broadly follow the argument of the ETS used by the Minister. However, the Commission has now also put forward interesting proposals for a price stability mechanism that takes rights off the market. That could be done in a variable way. In this new system, as I understand it, a cut-off of, for example, the Dutch coal plants would certainly lead to a reduction in CO emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u183	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u184	In my opinion, this will compensate for the effect. Did I get that correctly? Has that possibility indeed been created or am I mistaken?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u185	As far as I am concerned, there is not yet that clarity. I think it is desirable to achieve the effect that Mr Vos has mentioned. The ETS is not yet so far away that it will be achieved. I believe that the risk and the actual situation at the moment is still so, that if the Netherlands takes action, there will be room elsewhere in Europe to fill in. The only way to ensure that you achieve the intended effect is to remove the rights from the market. If the ETS is changed and the waterbed effect disappears, that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u186	Finally, Mr Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u187	Is the Minister prepared to take into account the impact of the Commission's current proposals on the amendment of the ETS on the price stability mechanism in the studies that are currently being carried out? Would the waterbed effect still occur or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u188	I think it would be very useful to share with the Chamber the information from which to draw the conclusion that Mr Vos wishes to draw.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u189	I would like to stress that the debate is really about the judge's ruling. Topical debates on climate and so on should be discussed at other times, although I understand that everything has to do with everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u190	I am surprised for two reasons that Minister Kamp is so determined about his statements on the ETS. The first reason is that the judge did not impose on the State how to implement that 25% and therefore it is entirely up to the Minister to decide whether to do so within or outside the ETS. The second reason is that the European Commission has carried out an impact assessment which states that there are actually very limited indications that the waterbed effect actually exists. For these two reasons, I do not really understand the Minister's defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u191	However, I think that the court has expressly stated that the reduction must be made on Dutch soil. This means that buying up Kyoto rights, with which you achieve emission reduction elsewhere in the world, cannot be achieved. That is the first point I made. The second point is that, in the judgment he delivered, the judge ignored the current effects, the current functioning of the European Emissions Trading System ETS. I think that this point needs to be re-assessed in substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u192	I have the verdict here for me. Point 4.81 on page 51 states that the judge is very clear about the waterbed effect of the ETS, the emission reductions that the Netherlands would achieve under the ETS sector and what this would or would not have for additional effects. So the judge has taken it very well and I don't understand why the Minister is now saying that the judge didn't take it into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u193	Of course, the judge has dealt with all aspects, but on a number of aspects he has considered and has reached a conclusion that we do not agree with in substance. We therefore consider it desirable that this substance be re-evaluated by a judge. The possibility of cassation, including jump cassation, is not useful for that purpose. To do so, you need to have a new substantive consideration and you can achieve it if you go on appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u194	As I understand the verdict, it's about endangerment. The essence is: there is danger for the citizens of the Netherlands and their children, as well as for people in other countries. In doing so, the judge is looking for a lower limit. That is a very different line of reasoning from what the Minister is now explaining. Does the Minister agree that this is a matter of danger and that the judge is looking for the absolute minimum limit that can be imposed on those who do nothing to protect citizens from this danger? That's how the judge constructs that 25%.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u195	The judge can do that, with all due respect to the judge. I believe that there is no absolute scientific limit applicable to individual states. IPCC's investigations do not provide hard fixed standards that can be translated into individual states; they are an elaboration of multiple scenarios and expectations. So that's something else. If you make that assessment, another conclusion is possible. That is why I think it is important that this point of substance should also be the subject of an appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u196	So the Minister says that there is no danger to the citizens of the Netherlands in the current cabinet policy. That is the fundamental point of dispute with the judge's ruling. This means the country's attorney left a lot of things behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u197	Mrs Van Tongeren draws all kinds of conclusions that I do not draw. I have said that we believe that there are a number of points that need to be re-examined. We have legal and substantive objections. The legal objections have been raised. I have raised three substantive objections for which I consider a different conclusion to be conceivable and possibly desirable if the judge makes a decision. This can be reached on appeal. I have already mentioned those three points on which I believe a new substantive consideration should be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u198	I want to focus on what the cabinet has done. Two parties form the coalition. The Labour Party has said that it is dealing with questions of principle. No one in the Chamber actually objects to that. We all see the importance of this. You can do that in cassation. The VVD also wants the content of the carnival. On behalf of the cabinet, it is now said that these are questions of principle, but also of substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u199	Where do you want to go, Mrs. Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u200	Can we conclude that the VVD has got its way here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u201	I don't quite understand that conclusion. The cabinet makes its own decision. We have assessed the ruling and, first of all, we have come to the conclusion that it is feasible in advance and that we must therefore take action. Secondly, the cabinet has found that there are both legal and substantive objections. We have seen them and that has led us to believe that an appeal should be made; this has now been done. That's an independent trade-off from the cabinet. It's not like the Cabinet is gonna sit down and see who we're gonna give its way to this time. No, the cabinet itself comes to an analysis and a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u202	I understand the Minister's taking the space that the Chamber gives him, but I'd like to peel off the discussion. If today the Chamber decides to ask for a majority in favour of the cabinet to withdraw the appeal and still proceed to cassation, then it remains that the questions of principle can be answered but not the substantive part. We have a majority in the Chamber for this, because the Labour Party has already fully endorsed that the judge's judgment is only the beginning of what we have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u203	I cannot support that conclusion either. I have indicated that the cabinet believes that an appeal should be made. I have not yet had to draw the conclusion from the first period that the support of the House of Representatives will be omitted. So I think that support will be there. This means that we will await the appeal and look at the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u204	The Minister cites the emissions trading system. That is not working, and I fear that will always be the case. That's not the Minister's fault, but the way he's putting it now does put us in a sort of princess dilemma. As long as that system doesn't work, you'll always be at a cost if you want to get rights out of the market. I can also turn it around and say: if we close all, including the new coal plants, then you have a nice apple for the thirst left to SDE+, which you do not have to spend on biomass. How does the Minister compare this profit with the delay he provides when we have to buy ETS rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u205	If we take action in the energy sector and in the energy-intensive industry, it will cost a lot of money. I was concerned that it would not be possible to achieve anything because it would be completed elsewhere in Europe. The only way these measures will be effective is to remove ETS rights from the market. You're gonna double up. That's my problem with it. I think this is a clear argument. So I cannot put Mr Smaling's question on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u206	Finally, very briefly, Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u207	We're all aware that the waterbed effect is there. I regret that this is now being put forward as a reason to support the appeal in substance. I think that is a shame, because these coal plants, including the new ones that are still coming, are going to produce 3% extra emissions. The social benefits of non-emissions must be taken into account. If the Minister's reasoning is that it costs extra resources to get those rights out of the market, I say to him: you also have a lot of benefits in the prospect of simply continuing and picking the low-hanging fruit from the table of ECN and PBL.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u208	At the closure of all coal power stations, I do not have the association with low-hanging fruit. I shall now go into the coal-fired power stations in detail. So much for appealing. My second point concerns the investigations that we must carry out in order to make a proper decision on what we have decided, namely to carry out the judge's ruling. It is absolutely not the case that we are trying to move things forward or that we are trying to train them. However, if we have to take far-reaching measures, we must first have all the relevant information before we can decide to do so. We need to know about the effects of these measures. Firstly, we need to know of all possible measures whether they are practical and legally feasible. It's nice to decide on something, but if it doesn't have a timely effect, it doesn't do you any good. That's what we need to know anyway. Secondly, we need to know whether the short-term measures for greenhouse gas emissions for 2020 are in line with our long-term objective. Our long-term target is 80 to 95% reduction in 2050. This is directly linked to our ambition to limit the temperature increase on earth to 2°C, but the measures we need to take to achieve that final situation must not be hampered by what we are doing for the short term. What we are strengthening for the short term must be in line with that. That needs to be investigated. We also need to examine the issue of public support for these measures. You can take far-reaching measures, but if there is insufficient support for them, you have a problem on that basis. So you're gonna have to look into that. I also think it is important to examine Mr Madlener's comments on the impact on employment. If we take measures that would lead to tens of thousands of jobs disappearing in the Netherlands in the short term, that is something we should face and weigh up. We must also look, as Mr Madlener said, at the impact on the prosperity we have with each other and on the purchasing power of all the Dutch. Those aren't things you can ignore. That is also what you have to face when you make far-reaching decisions. Finally, I also think that you should consider the impact of possible measures on the competitiveness of the Netherlands. We don't just stand up in the world. We remain in the world because our industry produces and markets products in the world in a very responsible way. If you make changes to that, they can also have a major impact on that industry and on our economy as a whole. So the effect on the competitiveness of the Netherlands on the world market is also something we have to face. I really think it's necessary to have a good picture of all these things. We will try to clarify this as much as possible with the ibo (interdepartmental policy research). I will say a little more about this in a moment, after Mrs Van Tongeren's interruption if the President gives us the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u209	I'm gonna talk about interruptions. How much time do you think you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u210	Without interruptions for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u211	Have you divided your speech into parts so I can say it as...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u212	No, I am responding to the points raised by the spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u213	You look so inviting that I cannot refuse Mrs Van Tongeren!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u214	I think that is very thoughtful of you, Mr President. I understand, of course, that the cabinet has a balanced package of measures that make it feel comfortable and hard to work on. Then suddenly a judge goes through there and says, "You have to do something more." It is a natural reflex to say: we do a lot, that fits well, that is balanced, that maintains employment. And yet it has to be. So I would like a response from the Minister on a number of measures; the basis of support, the legal side, and so on. For example, we already have the coal tax, which has been tested legally, which exists. Of course, there is no support for those who are subject to this tax. It is not possible to take measures to welcome those affected.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u215	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u216	Another measure that is possible is the maximum speed. These are measures that could quickly be implemented in this round in the Tax Plan. Is the Minister prepared to look at a number of measures that can be taken quickly? I understand that some adjustments are difficult for the cabinet and may come later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u217	No, I'm not prepared to. I intend to involve all possible measures in the inter-departmental policy investigation, which we hope to achieve by 31 December. Then we will also have the outcome of the 2015 National Energy Exploratory, then the 2015 Energy Report will also be available and we will then see what conclusions we can draw from the Interdepartmental Policy Research in early spring 2016. It is not excluded that further research will still be needed on a number of points. It is really necessary, if you are to take far-reaching measures, to have all the consequences of this in mind so that you do not do things that are irresponsible and which you will regret later, or which harm our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u218	Finally, Mrs Van Tongeren. Very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u219	I can remember the spring agreement, where fairly radical measures could be taken very quickly. If the cabinet wants it, it can be done very quickly. I'm actually hearing a cabinet here that's gonna push it out for itself. I am curious to hear the answer on the implementation of the Klever motion. I hope that will not be the case if we take a single measure in December 2016. That would disappoint me greatly from the cabinet, because it respects the judiciary and knows you're not gonna make it if you don't start on time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u220	Mrs. Van Tongeren, that was no interruption. You've been interrupting a lot. More time has now been devoted to interruptions than to the speaking time of the ruler. I urge Members to keep the interruptions short and also to hold themselves back, because they also want a second term. I call Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u221	Mr President, may I say something?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u222	Yes. For you too: very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u223	The Klever motion states that we should start implementing additional measures in 2016. 2016 starts in three months and ends in fifteen months. We are trying to complete this year's interdepartmental policy investigation. In early spring 2016, we will look at what may be additional if we are to be able to make responsible decision-making. Indeed, it is possible that additional measures could be implemented by the year 2016, i.e. before 31 December 2016. That depends a little on what the assessment of the various measures looks like.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u224	The minister was talking about investigations. He said that these are far-reaching decisions, but climate change is also very far-reaching. Our country is now recovering from an economic crisis. That's good, but an ecological crisis means that the Earth can't recover. Does the Minister share the urgency of this whole issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u225	Yes, I share the urgency of the matter. I think the 2°C should be the border. I believe that by 2050 we should achieve a reduction of 80% to 95% of greenhouse gas reduction emissions, in particular CO. I believe that we should continue to make progress on the path towards it. I also think that with our energy agreement we are taking a very important step forward. It was said here that the implementation of the Energy Agreement represents a 17% reduction in CO by the year 2020. That's a misunderstanding. If we implement the entire energy agreement on all parts, this will lead to a 21% reduction in 2020. This means that we still have 4% more to achieve in order to comply with the judgment given by the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u226	The second part of the interruption is indeed about the energy agreement. The minister says we want to investigate a lot. Among other things, the evaluation of the energy agreement will come to us. However, we can already see that, for example, we are not achieving the energy saving objective set out in the energy agreement year after year. These are measures on which everyone agrees that they should be taken. Can't that be looked at further in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u227	Here I have some doubts, because we are very intensively engaged in energy saving. I have 12 points on which we are very ambitious in achieving energy savings. I think Mrs Dik-Faber knows that we do. I would like to mention the 1.5% savings in energy consumption that we want to achieve every year. She knows about the 100 petajoules we have laid down in the energy agreement and about which there is still a lot to say. In total, I could now list 12 points in the field of energy saving, where we are intensively working on the ambition to achieve great success there. With Mrs Dik-Faber, I share the general urgency regarding the climate aspect. I also share her urgency regarding energy saving.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u228	The Minister states that the cabinet has decided to execute the judge's judgment and at the same time appeal. That implementation must then be carried out with care. I think that's what all the parties in the House of Representatives think. However, there must be some urgency. The Minister mentions the date of 31 December and a number of research reports to be published. Agreed, but I expect the cabinet to come to the Chamber with a thorough appreciation in early 2016. In any case, that is the wish I am expressing here on behalf of the Labour Party. I would ask the Minister to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u229	The cabinet will not delay in any way. We believe that the verdict should be carried out in advance. In order to make the right choices, to be able to take far-reaching measures, to ensure that those measures can be implemented, you need to ensure that you have the necessary information, so that your choices are justified. We are simply obliged to do so to the people who put us here. First of all, we have the ibo for this, which we have now widened. We will try to get as much out of that as possible. We will have that before the end of the year. We can then assess it in the early spring, partly on the basis of the national energy exploration and the energy report. I do not exclude that, if we want to take certain measures, the ibo shows that insufficient information is available for responsible decision-making. Then we're gonna have to figure out some extra stuff. I will do so as soon as possible, because I am not in the mood for any delay at all. I'll do everything as fast as I can, but I won't do it any faster than I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u230	Finally, Mr Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u231	I hope spring is so early that we are still ice-skating with a cold winter. We'll see how fast it goes. A number of research offices, ECN and PBL, have indicated that they would like to carry out an investigation into the closure of Dutch coal plants. That's what they discussed with the Chamber. Is the Minister prepared to ask ECN and PBL to continue that investigation and therefore to follow up the letter to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u232	I will say a few words about coal-fired power stations, but in the construction process it seems more logical that I should first comment on the evaluation of the energy agreement. I shall then turn to the coal-fired power stations, including Mr Vos's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u233	We are here today because we do not agree between the opposition and the cabinet on whether the cabinet should appeal. The cabinet says that the judge actually sat down in the chair of politics. The judge will review the laws we have passed in this country. The Minister just said: I think we should achieve 80% to 95% by 2050. The Environment and Infrastructure Council has today issued a report on this and recommends that this objective be legally anchored. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u234	I certainly think that is something we should consider. Legal anchoring, as Mrs Van Veldhoven puts it, is a reasonable formulation. You could also say: there must be a climate law. You can also choose to include it in a provision in an existing law. That is something we should consider. Just as we must consider that once such a target has been set for 2050, we must have an organisation that is monitoring the achievement of that objective, as we currently have a committee to monitor the implementation of the energy agreement. I'm not saying no to it, but I'm not saying yes to it either. That's because I got the report exactly an hour and a half ago. I've got it in my bag. I still have to study it and I intend to provide a response to the report that we have asked for as a building block for our energy report, which we come with at the end of this year, in the light of that energy report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u235	Finally, Mrs Van Veldhoven, I would like to say a few words.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u236	I welcome the Minister's answer, because it is likely that we will be faced again in a court of law with the question to which we have actually committed ourselves. The obligation of the Dutch State must be clarified by laying it down in the law. Can the Minister say one more time when he's coming up with that reaction? Is that still this year or is that not until next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u237	We're coming up with our energy report this year. The report by the Environment and Infrastructure Council is a very important building block that I have requested for that energy report. In the context of the energy report, I will also go into the opinion you mentioned, a legal anchoring of the target for 2050.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u238	I would like to remind the Minister that the world is watching, that the climate problem is not new. The Dutch government already recognised this in the first Note Climate Policy in 1991. It said literally: "We need to bring the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere to the lowest possible level as soon as possible." I would very much like us to be able to rely on the words of the cabinet: no, we do not want to slow down, we see that it is urgent and we are really going to do our best.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u239	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u240	The cabinet's against appearances. Let me give you one concrete example. Last year, this Chamber adopted a motion on a long-term vision of the climate. Come on, because we need to develop a strategy in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u241	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u242	Where's that vision?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u243	Our long-term view of the climate is that it is an international problem. It is a global problem that needs to be addressed globally. We agree with the analysis that warming should be limited to two degrees Celsius. We agree with the analysis that this includes an 80% to 95% reduction in CO emissions by the year 2050 compared to 1990. We agree that we must play an ambitious and leading role in Europe. We agree that between now and 2050 we must have a timetable in which concrete steps are taken towards the final objective. That's our climate vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u244	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u245	That is what the cabinet said the year before, and the year before and the year before. Following a report by the Planning Bureau for the Environment, which rightly said that it takes courage and courage to change great things, last year the Chamber said in the general political considerations: come forward with such a vision this parliamentary year. It is not there, but the Cabinet does ask the Chamber to agree to the Climate Act, while the Planning Office for the Environment still wants to examine whether this Climate Act is so convenient. The Climate Act was also on the agenda a few years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u246	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u247	So the question now is, what can we assume? We've heard the words now. It's been 24 years. When will it become apparent that the cabinet is working on saving the climate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u248	That cabinet vision of the climate lies with us, which I just put forward. I'd like to put it in more detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u249	No, we don't have time for that. I suggest you continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u250	I have just summarized it for this debate. Mrs Ouwehand says that we are postponing, but I do not know what that means. We have a very ambitious energy agreement and we will have to do a lot more to get it implemented. If we manage to get that done, we will achieve 21% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. The measures taken under the Energy Agreement are very far-reaching. The cabinet is committed to this with great conviction and thus makes an important contribution to the management of the climate problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u251	I suggest you move on. I also propose that we go to a conclusion, of course after you have made your contribution. We have to suspend around 1:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u252	Some spokesmen, in particular Mrs Mulder, spoke about the time when the energy agreement would have to be evaluated. I think it's a good thing I'm responding to that point. The Energy Agreement is from 2013 and aims to achieve certain agreed results by 2020 and 2023. You start in 2013 and have to achieve something in 2020 and in 2023. We have chosen the year 2016 to evaluate already. I think that's early because you've only just started and have four more years respectively to go. It would also have been justifiable to do such an evaluation in 2018. We don't do that, we do that in the year 2016. We have done this because, if we do it in 2016, we have had the opportunity to introduce measures that we have taken and to proceed with implementation. We can draw conclusions from this, but we also have sufficient time to take additional measures if necessary. I want to do that evaluation in 2016, but it will not happen in the first quarter of 2016; it is not. I believe that we should first of all have the National Energy Exploratory available next year. It's gonna tell us where the bottlenecks are. Then we come up with the long-term energy report, in which we can also well place short-term measures up to 2020/2023. There are some very profound things in there. For example, we will conduct an energy dialogue in the country in the first half of 2016. Furthermore, the 2016 National Energy Exploratory will also be published in 2016, which will assess the impact of all the measures that have been taken in the meantime under the Energy Agreement. We can't do that right now, but we can. In the fourth quarter of 2016 we finally come up with two more pieces. The first is the policy agenda for the next few years in order to meet our ambitions for both 2020/2023 and 2030 and 2050. That will be linked to the second part, the evaluation of the energy agreement. So, in a responsible and meaningful way, I can do the evaluation of the energy agreement in the fourth quarter of 2016. The coal-fired power stations are a subject which the spokesmen had great interest in. We all know what it's about. In the Netherlands we have ten coal plants, five of which will be closed down. It's a lot to close five of those power stations, but it's what the energy agreement says. It is part of the overall package of agreements. Furthermore, the coal tax, which has recently been introduced and has been effective for about two years, is being removed. In this way we have been able to ensure the cooperation of all electricity producers in the energy agreement. So we have five coal power stations left, but they are the cleanest and most efficient plants in Europe. With our 40% return standard, we are at the very top of the European benchmark. If we were to close these coal plants too, there would be quite a few consequences. The first consequence is that replacement capacity must be provided immediately. Some of the spokesmen have said that we should only use those gas plants. I would point out, however, that some of them are the same spokesmen who have said: less gas in Groningen and preferably no gas from Russia. These spokesmen also know that the gas from Norway is already being used to the full. So, first of all, you have to answer the specific question where you can get the gas to do it. The second consequence is that, in my opinion, this will create a capacity shortage. This means that we should import electricity from other countries and we know that electricity from other countries is produced in a less clean way than we do in the Netherlands. Another immediate effect is that biomass is no longer possible. However, biomass represents 1.2% of our ambition of 14% renewable energy by 2020 and 16% renewable energy by 2023. One thing is certain: if we lose the biomass by-product and thereby the 1.2%, then we will not achieve these objectives. Finally, I would like to point out another objection. There is a coal power station in the Eemshaven in Groningen of the German company RWE. That coal plant was opened this year, after years of construction. The company itself said it invested EUR 2.6 billion in it. So closing that plant is a big deal. This also applies to the power station of the German company E.ON on the Maasvlakte Centrale 3. According to E.ON, that plant costs 1.7 billion. It still needs to be put into operation, but it should be closed by now. Furthermore, there is another plant of the company Engie, formerly GDF Suez, in Rotterdam, which has also been put into operation this year. It should therefore be closed. In total, we are talking about billions and billions of capital destruction in those companies. I therefore believe that the closure of coal-fired power stations is something that we should not go through lightly. What is possible and what is happening in the context of the ibo is that we look at what can be improved at coal-fired power stations. One could think of an increase in efficiency, which can have an effect on whether or not power stations remain open. You could also think of capturing CO2 and then storing it. We have the ROAD project for storing gas in an empty gas field in the North Sea. Those are things we can look at in the context of the ibo. I think it's just responsible to do it that way. In my view, it is irresponsible to say that the last five coal-fired power stations should be closed down.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u253	I suggest you proceed with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u254	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u255	No, I just refused Mrs Mulder when she barely interrupted. If there are any interruptions, Mrs. Mulder will lead the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u256	Delicious, Mr. Chairman. I would like to have more debates with you. I would just like to look at what questions and comments Mrs Van Tongeren has left me. She says a lot of subtleties. I usually let that go, but now she said in a subtlety that the Council of State has ensured that the gas tap in Loppersum at least closed a little. The reality is that the government has decided to reduce gas extraction in Loppersum and its surroundings by 80%. The Council of State had nothing to do with this in any way. The Council of State has only expressed its opinion on the remaining 20% and on whether it could still be won. Mrs Van Tongeren's statement was therefore incorrect. Mrs Van Veldhoven said that we can no longer hide behind the energy agreement. I think she herself knows very well that our energy agreement is very ambitious. The cabinet is working hard to carry it out. The last thing we do is hide behind it. No, we're just pushing it to make sure we get it done, because it's worth a lot to us to do it. Mrs Van Veldhoven also mentioned the time when the measures for the execution of the judgment of the judge should be taken. I've already gone into that. I have already dealt with the gas plants. Mrs Ouwehand has given a number of qualifications. I'm gonna leave it with a rebuttal. Mrs Dik-Faber said that the energy agreement could be broken as far as she was concerned. Not as far as I'm concerned. I'm trying to implement the energy agreement. I do not rule out the need for a review at any time and on any part, but that will have to be concluded jointly with the parties to the energy agreement. Mr Smaling said that stocks of fossil fuel are running low. Mr Vos also said something about this. The Energy Outlook has stated that the total winable oil stock is estimated to be 184 years based on current usage. The total winable gas stock is estimated to be 234 years and the total estimated coal stock is 2,900 years. The problem lies not so much in stocks, but in the effects of the use of fossil energy sources on the climate. That's what we're talking about in this discussion. I have already had to contradict Mrs Mulder on the 17% greenhouse gas emissions, in particular CO. She thought we'd come up with that by 2020. This will be 21% if the energy agreement is implemented in full and in full. I have already taken up some of the points raised by Mr Madlener in the affirmative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u257	Mrs. Mulder owes me an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u258	The ibo report will be completed this year and the cabinet will come in the first half of next year with its appreciation. Could that at least be so much before the summer that we can discuss this in the Chamber in July or at the end of June, so that we can already give direction to the 2017 budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u259	That seems to me to be a reasonable request from Mrs Mulder. That must also be the ambition of the cabinet, for which I will work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u260	Thank you for this commitment. I also asked whether the cabinet would like to make a commitment to the real driving emissions regulation in relation to the revealing issues that have emerged at VW. Would the cabinet also like to see what it can do about the test procedures? There seems to have been something very wrong in the car industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u261	My colleague, Mrs Mansveld, will deal with that in a moment, if you will, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u262	Now or in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u263	I'll get right to it. I was shocked when I read it. I had said domestically only one conclusion: the consumer has been reasonably deceived. As you know, in Europe, I have worked hard for the real driving emissions test. Last week I discussed with the Commissioners that it is important that it be done quickly. I'll have a Transport Council in two weeks. I will certainly go into this with a number of other countries, because this simply cannot be done. European action must be taken very quickly here. I just read on my phone that BMW is also giving signals. This just can't be. We started work yesterday to see what we can do at European level. I believe that we must send a message very quickly and that European action must be taken very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u264	Thank you for the commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u265	I see Mrs Van Tongeren and Mrs Van Veldhoven at the interrupting microphone. They've interrupted a lot, most of all. I want to suspend around 1:30. I propose to ask questions only if a question has not been answered or has remained, so not to interrupt with a follow-up question or an introduction. I also propose that, after the suspension of half an hour, after the arrangement of work and the commemoration of Mr Jaap Goudswaard, the second term be given. There are a lot of people who would also like to know how this debate is being concluded. I give the opportunity to ask one short question and start with Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u266	I just had a comment. The Minister pretends to be out of the blue as soon as we decide to close the coal plants, but there is a great deal of overcapacity in the Netherlands. Even if the coal plants are shut down, there is still overcapacity. The Minister is talking to people about the fear that the light will go out. There is no question of that, of course, nor of a request to this Minister to act lightly. However, we ask him to take a serious look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u267	That's not right. With what is now out of use and what is out of use when you close the coal plants, there is a shortage of capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u268	...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u269	No, we just made an appointment. There will be a general discussion on energy next week. A lot of questions can also be asked there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u270	We have worked hard to avoid the plenary agenda, which is likely to have resulted in the collapse of the AO, depending on whether it will succeed next week. We, as spokesmen, have done our best to do this. I suggested a supervisor, but I didn't get a response. The State is the losing party. We do say that we are going to execute the sentence, but then the State, which does not agree with the judgment and which is the losing party, must itself supervise the execution of the sentence. I have proposed that, as is often the case in arbitration cases, Urgenda and the State jointly designate a third party to examine whether the judgment is actually being enforced.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u271	There can be no question of that in the cabinet. We do not need a bailiff as Mrs Van Tongeren calls it. We are going to execute the sentence, which has been declared enforceable on stock. I have indicated that we are doing so as quickly as possible and that we want to do so carefully. We see it as our responsibility, if there is a judge's ruling, to ensure that it is implemented. That's just our day job. I don't need a bailiff for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u272	There is uncertainty as to whether or not the remaining five coal plants in the Netherlands can be used in mothballs. ECN and PBL, two renowned research offices, have offered the Chamber a closer look and report to us. Is the cabinet prepared to ask ECN and PBL to investigate this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u273	I have indicated the relevant points in the closure of coal power stations. ECN and PBL have a lot of knowledge, but not of the effects it has on companies that have invested in it very recently. I have already said that three new coal plants will be opened this year. The most expensive is 2.6 billion, the second 1.7 billion. Of the third, I don't have the amount so ready. There are therefore more aspects than just those that ECN and PBL could properly examine. However, in the context of the ibo, I will look at how to respond to the information needs of Mr Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u274	This brings us to the end of the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u275	We suspend until 2 p.m. and then we commemorate Jaap Goudswaard, head of the Registry Plenary/Office of Legislation. The order of business will then be followed. You can take the questions you wanted to ask with you to the second term, Mr Vos.
