ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-18.u1	Incoming is the next letter. Mr President, dear Anouchka, Over 25 years ago I took the first cautious steps on the sometimes slipping Binnenhof. My first official job: I became a junior policy officer for the D66 Group. With the clear portfolio of agricultural, science and emancipation policies, for eight hours a week and divided into three ambitious MPs who wanted to shine daily in the old Chamber. Work didn't get bored for a second! No one had ever heard of a sculpture like "the friestation" before. There was a meeting in a smoke-through, half-dark rectangle and politicians sat, against will and thanks, threes stuffed together in green plush benches. Each political generation has its own village pump where ideas and news rage by. Now those are Twitter and Facebook. Then it was the famous Binnenhof 5A, the Kamercafé, where members had heated discussions at formica tables, fed around the clock with meatballs and atmospheric consumptions. It's a shame there's never been a documentary about that. With the junior part-time job, love for politics and public administration has sparked and grown. Then and the years after, I worked very hard for it, in different places and always with interesting people: as alderman and a member of the city council in Dordrecht, and then for more than twelve years as a parliamentarians. In the relative calm and calmness of the First Chamber, I, mediaically speaking, have remained unnoticed by the outside world. When First Chamber members simply do their job, there is no mortal interested in it. It was a privilege to ride loosely every Tuesday across the red velvet fistful carpets. I can also recommend that everyone first gain experience in the First Chamber and then cross the Binnenhof to the Second. Why? To test the importance of good legislation and to learn the quality of legislation and the teachings of debate with the government. The core of it is this: at the right time just asking that one razor sharp question. The switch to the Lower House was quite an adjustment. Instead of a stream of legislative proposals, "the headline in the newspaper" and "the eye of the camera" dictates the rhythm of the day. Positively put: it is more exotic in this Chamber, but sometimes with unpredictable hurricane threats. I have had some fantastic years here and I would like to thank my colleagues through you for their good cooperation. For example, it was a pleasure to cart together in the conference room at the interrupting microphones. And when a ruler was already stiffening the eyebrows when placing a wagon like that, I thought: bite, finger in the sore spot! And sure enough, there's a cherry on the cake. The crafting and defending of initiative legislative proposals. Nice work. It is no great secret that the attention to current political incidents and the long-term issues is sometimes out of balance. This is a real risk to the democratic functioning of our present parliamentary democracy. That's why things go wrong. In hindsight and therefore too late, this is revealed by parliamentary investigations or surveys. Moving along or counterweighting: that is the question that the Chamber should consider a little more often. The work in a political environment is beautiful. I could have enjoyed doing this for many years. At the same time, I want to continue to challenge myself. That's why I'm gonna do something different by August 1st. In a new environment with other topics. A MP is orphaned without the relevant dedication of the staff in the Chamber. Always thoughtful, careful and with the service first. From Bureau Legislation, the Registry, ICT and telephone, messengers and all those who take care of the internal person, thank you very much! I wish everyone all the best. Sincerely, Gerard Schouw
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-18.u2	This resignation was notified to the President of the Central Voting Office and to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I propose that the letter be adopted for notification.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-18.u3	Dear Mr. Schouw, dear Gerard, A life without politics... can you imagine? Well, I've just read your farewell letter, indicating that there's a new phase and that you're going another way. A quarter of a century public administration was your life. You were a city councilman and alderman in Dordrecht and in 2003 you took the step to the Binnenhof. No unknown territory for you; from 1988 to 1990 you were here as a young puppy as a policy officer of the D66 group. That you first became First Member of Parliament, made you come here in 2010 with the necessary luggage. Your maiden speech was about the appointment of a new President of the Chamber. It was a crystal clear argument, in which you not only sketched a profile for a new President of the Chamber, but you also hinted at your own ambition a little bit. In the years that followed, you have shaped that ambition in a very own way. You chose complex, sensitive dossiers, for example in the area of justice or home affairs, with foreign policy, supervision of intelligence and security services, state-law relations and not least: the involvement of citizens in politics. It's files that fit you. You like content, you like depth. You enjoy calling the Chamber to stick a spade deeper, while you're a little peeking and rubbing your hands behind the cathedral or the interrupting microphone. The moment you see a hook, your eyes start shining. You indicated it yourself: for you, the core of the Chamberwork lies in that one sharp question at that one critical moment. You're a Member of Parliament who is very active in fulfilling his co-legislative task. For you, the initiative bill is not an exotic instrument. In the five years that you have been a Member of Parliament, you have submitted eleven legislative proposals or, as you yourself have said recently, you have been allowed to "participate" occasionally. For example, you helped Boris van der Ham "a little" with the initiative legislative proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure, about the appointment of the informant or reformer by the House of Representatives. The fall of the cabinet has accelerated the implementation of this amendment to the Rules of Procedure. And recently, I said it this week in the speech to the divorced clerk, the Bovend'Eert Committee handed me the evaluation of the cabinet formation. Their main conclusion is that the formation went well and that the Rules of Procedure had only to be adapted to a small detail. Yesterday, the Chamber agreed to that. It's a nice result of something you guys set in motion. Also worth mentioning are the initiatives to deconstitutionalise the appointment of mayor and commissioner of the King, a ban on refused officials, democratisation of common regulations, the consultative and corrective referendum, the removal of the ban on blasphemy, the improvement of legal protection in asylum matters and the renewal of the Public Administration Act. Who, drawing your ideas, should be called the Open Government Act. Many of these proposals have reached the finish line and have now also been accepted by the Upper House. In short, you were not only an active Member of Parliament, but certainly an effective Member of Parliament. You've taken full advantage of your time here, and you should be proud of it. Gerard, a life without politics... you're gonna get started. As of 1 August, you will become the Managing Director of Nefarma, the Netherlands Society for Innovative Medicines. But you leave with a lasting memory of a quarter century of politics. I can tell you that His Majesty has pleased the King to appoint you Knight of the Order of Orange-Nassau. May I ask you to step forward so that I may pin on you the decorations that are part of this appointment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-02-tweedekamer-18.u4	I have a few more sentences for you, Gerard. We're going to miss you: your experience, your knowledge of state law and your contributions in terms of content. But don't be afraid: even without your presence, we try to cut that spade deeper. I'm sure you will, outside the Chamber, with the same quirkiness and the same pleasure we've been able to see here all these years. Take care.
