ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u1	Ten speakers have come forward. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the bill for wind energy at sea. At the moment it is already possible to build wind farms at sea. With the bill presented by the cabinet, this should be easier and faster. In itself, that is a good ambition, but the Animal Party is not yet convinced that this bill actually achieves what is needed for the wider ambitions to keep the Earth viable: dampening climate change, but also protecting vulnerable nature here. The necessity is clear. On 14 April, the climate policy of this cabinet will be in front of the court in The Hague. That's not for nothing. The Netherlands has committed itself internationally to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, so that the dangerous limit of two degrees of global warming is not exceeded. This is of great importance for the quality of life of the earth, but unfortunately it remains with words. The climate and energy policy of this cabinet is moving rapidly towards a much greater global warming: three or even four degrees of global temperature increase is in sight and even seems inevitable. This will have disastrous consequences for nature, because it is heavily influenced by climate change both at sea and on land. Seas acidify, species disappear. It will also have major consequences for us, for our children and grandchildren and, unfortunately, for people around the equator, who have not participated in climate change, but who will be hardest hit by its consequences. The need for a rapid transition from fossil fuels to sustainable renewable energy is therefore of paramount importance. We need to get rid of coal and gas plants. We shouldn't start with shale gas, no more drilling for gas under the mudflats or residential areas. Nuclear energy is simply not a sustainable solution. We should not call energy green that is not demonstrable. The production of biofuels throws people's bread out of the mouth, causes large-scale loss of biodiversity and is therefore not green. Then we also have the manure fermenters, which because of the huge manure surplus in our country dolls everywhere like mushrooms from the ground. The Party for Animals has often indicated on various fronts that it is a fierce opponent of manure fermenters. It is important to look at what is happening here in a broader context. It is a global need to make our energy production more sustainable and to save energy. Manure doesn't just fall out of the sky. In fact, incredibly much energy is used for the production of manure. On the other side of the world large-scale loss of biodiversity is taking place, because we cut down rainforests to make way for monocultures where genetically modified soya and maize are placed. Incredible amounts of fertilizer are used to grow those crops. And let fertilizer be a huge energy waster: in the Netherlands alone, 6% of gas production is devoted to its production. These soy and corn come here and are fed to animals, and we are left with the manure surplus. The energy production that demands this for the import of animal feed in the Netherlands alone is 62 petajoule per year. That is enough to provide energy to 5 million households in the Netherlands every year. We appreciate the fact that the cabinet also sees the need to focus on greener energy. Within this framework, we find it unimaginable that the need for meat reduction recommended to us by climate scientists and anyone who understands nature, energy and biodiversity is not even on the agenda of this cabinet and is not even part of the Paris climate talks. If you are going to make energy more sustainable, we believe that you should also look at this problem. Even if this hurts a little, you have to face it and deal with it. The only option to meet our energy demand in a truly sustainable way is therefore to reduce demand itself. At that point, meat consumption is one of the most obvious things. Energy is never free. There are disadvantages to any form of energy generation. At present, many of these disadvantages for humans, animals and nature are largely outside our field of view. Examples are the mining of coal in Colombia, where human rights are violated on a gross scale, the extraction of tar sand oil, for which people are driven off their land and ecosystems are destroyed, and the barbaric struggle of ISIS, which is financed by oil revenues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u3	Is this the debate on the wind energy at sea Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u4	As far as I'm concerned, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u5	I believe that today we are discussing the plan to provide millions of families in the Netherlands with renewable energy generated by windmills. We have allowed a five-minute speaking time. I therefore propose that we devote that speaking time to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u6	Sorry to interrupt. This is a legal procedure, and every Member of Parliament has the right to talk about it for as long as he or she wants. Mrs. Ouwehand has told us that she will talk for about 15 minutes. If she had said in advance that she wanted to talk for 45 minutes or five hours, she might have.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u7	I wish Mrs Ouwehand every success in dealing with the issues she wishes to discuss, but I would kindly ask her to confine herself to dealing with the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u8	I understand the question, but the point is that the Party for Animals is not just very enthusiastic about placing windmills in the sea, because this will have effects on nature. I would like to dwell on all the other possibilities that I believe we should use as a government before we impose any further burdens on nature at sea. Because that's what we're going to do with this bill. For my group, I shall say to Mr Vos of the Labour Party, that consideration is not easy to make. We see the need to switch to renewable energy, but we also think that it is impossible to leave out all kinds of obvious solutions and to say: in the North Sea nature can bear our failure in other areas for a while. For us, therefore, it is not yet clear whether we support this law. I am therefore very curious to hear the Minister's response to my specific questions on this bill, and to his ambition on behalf of the cabinet to address the other problems as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u9	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u10	So I would like to draw attention to the fact that the current way of generating energy has major disadvantages. Closer to home we see this in the gas extraction in Groningen, but also in the emissions of mercury in the Wadden Sea from the coal plants. The large amounts of harmful nitrogen also put heavy pressure on our nature and health. And then what? There is the dilemma, because the production of renewable energy from sun, wind and water also has effects that you cannot just brush away, here and elsewhere. The production of solar panels uses harmful substances: hydrochloric acid, arsenic, phosphorus and cadmium. They are dangerous to the environment and are being won under miserable conditions. In the production of energy in hydroelectric power stations, too often a large part of nature is destroyed and fish are affected on a large scale when they are ground. Windmills, which we are talking about today, also have effects on humans, birds, bats, fish and marine mammals. The Animal Party attaches great importance to the need to take these concerns seriously. For people, these concerns relate to drop shadow, noise nuisance and the effects on health that we need to recognise. The same applies to the effects on nature. Animals are affected by the wicks, their routes are disturbed or they die or get lost by the mooring of windmills under water and the underwater noise that the mills produce when they turn. Let us not do so, for my argument is that there are no disadvantages to the production of renewable energy for humans, animals and the environment, because there are disadvantages. So an inevitable effect of the transition to a decentralised, renewable energy supply, which the Party for Animals supports, is that we will also partly attract the effects of this production on humans, animals and the environment. No more coal from Colombia means energy generation here and to some extent the environmental impact here. But the most important thing that must be done in this need is to save. Saving, saving, saving. All forms of energy generation have disadvantages. Even if we set the criteria very sharply and only use sun, wind and water, we will really have to do our best to make sure that we don't need so much energy, because you don't have to generate what you don't make. Then it is hard to imagine that we would want to damage nature at sea so that the light can continue to burn in office buildings at night, that we produce energy with windmills that are then mainly converted into unusable heat by inefficient hallogen lamps, and that we keep shop doors wide open in winter, making shopkeepers really stick to the streets. And I have already said that the need for meat reduction, the crucial part of climate policy, is not even on the Cabinet's agenda. In this debate, too, we would like to encourage the cabinet to do something about this, because we see that windmills also have disadvantages. Nature under water is vulnerable. The installation of windmills at sea is accompanied by major damage to underwater life. Especially when windmills are found, thousands of fish die and even more vulnerable fish larvae die. Even once the windmills spin, they have an impact on fish and marine mammals that are disturbed by the sound, because the sound under water carries far. As a result of the questions we have asked about this, it became clear that no windmills are being installed in protected Natura 2000 sites themselves. We're happy about that. However, the Party for Animals is concerned about whether the effects on nature are properly assessed and monitored. After all, we read in this bill that the nature protection test is inserted into the procedures for designating the lots. This means that there is no need to issue a separate licence under the Nature Conservation Act. We are not reassured by this, as I say to the Minister, that this does not undermine the quality of the protection of the important natural values at sea. I would like to have a further reaction to that. In replying to the written questions, we read between the rules that compensatory measures will soon be adopted rather than mitigation if the installation of windmills in Natura 2000 sites has significant consequences, in other words that there will not be a choice of locations and techniques to prevent its impact on nature, but that the cabinet will then opt for recouping measures. Is that right? In fact, I would like the government's assurance that this choice does not follow, which is important for our consideration of voting in favour of this bill. The Animal Party has also proposed to include in this bill an upper limit to the level of underwater noise that could occur in the installation and operation of windmills. The cabinet says it does not want to include this in the law and refers to the framework ecology to be developed. In this, the cabinet says, the cumulative ecological effects and the mitigating measures will be discussed in greater depth. That review framework will assess whether it can be excluded that offshore wind farms will have significant negative impacts on ecology. In order to avoid any significant negative effects that may occur, rules will be included in the lot decisions if necessary, according to the Cabinet. The Animal Party wants more clarity about that framework before we vote on this law. Can the Minister indicate which frameworks and rules are being envisaged? Does it include an upper limit for underwater noise, as Germany does? If so, how high will that limit be? If not, how does the Minister intend to ensure innovation and a significant reduction in the current damage caused by windmills to nature? Indeed, the hesitant answers to our written questions are not yet very reassuring. The Empire designates lots where windmills are allowed and then leaves it to market players to come up with proposals to create wind farms there. Another concern. We read that the tendering procedure for these parks is then carried out on the basis of a financial balance. So, under the line, we are only looking at who is the cheapest and then we are allowed to build that lot. The Animal Party has proposed that, when awarding the contract, it should look not only at the cheapest but also at the best plan, the one that is able to reduce the negative impact on animals, nature and the environment most. I do not understand why the cabinet rejects that proposal. By choosing the best plan in the tender, you can drive innovation, which is indeed very hopeful, in terms of reducing the effects of wind energy on nature. I'd like to hear from the Minister why he's rejecting that plan. He merely says that the subsidy scheme is not suitable to steer for purposes other than cost-effectiveness. We're just really disagreeing with him. A good subsidy scheme for renewable energy ensures that energy is really produced as sustainably as possible. This also means keeping the natural effects as small as possible. I'm considering a motion on that point. Then another side of the windmills. Windmills are protected from rust using anodes. This gradually dissolves substances such as aluminium, zinc and other heavy metals into the water, which means that toxic metals enter the sea. Now there are techniques to protect the steel without these harmful substances. This is more expensive, but also in this case the Party for Animals thinks that you should choose the best rather than the cheapest solution. This is also how you ensure that no heavy metals are released into the environment. If the Minister is wondering what he would have to pay for that, I would point out to him the excessive subsidy for the fermenters. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he shares the concern about the pollution of the sea by windmills under the current rules. Is he prepared to actually prescribe the less polluting ways to prevent rust from windmills? As far as we are concerned, that really comes into the rules and the subsidy scheme. With the construction of windmills, nature at sea is even more affected than it already is. That makes the balancing difficult. Industrial fishing, oil drilling, gas drilling: the North Sea is already under severe pressure from all these economic activities. The cabinet stands by and looks at it, which is a major objection of the Party for Animals to the current government policy.. despite the international conventions that serve to protect marine nature. The OSPAR Treaty was recently rejected by the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment with the words: we are doing our best, but there is no obligation to achieve results. The OSPAR Convention is about protecting our marine ecosystems. I think the cabinet should just respect that, because our signature is underneath it. There are too many areas that should have been protected under the Birds Directive and the Habitats Directive, but they are not yet, and the Cabinet is leaving it at that. I am thinking of the Central Oyster Lands, the Brown Bank, the Zeeuwse Banken, the Borkumse Stones, the Coast Sea and the Voordelta. Other countries know how to do that. Germany has assumed its responsibility and has designated its part of the Borkum Stones as Natura 2000 site, but the Netherlands refuses to do so. In addition to Germany, Great Britain is aware of the urgency of protecting marine ecosystems. That country has recently created the largest marine reserve in the world: 834,000 km. The Animal Party believes that the cabinet should not only focus on green energy, which is important, but also on protecting nature, which we should make possible together in the North Sea. It is significant that we make it easy to set up wind farms at sea, but in the meantime we do not invest in nature reserves. In conclusion, climate change needs to be addressed. For that, the transition to green energy is really necessary. This is also in the interest of nature at sea. I have already mentioned the acidification of the seas and oceans caused by climate change. It is important that we always consider the natural effects of what we do, as well as the other effects that windmills can have in this case. The consequences of wind energy on humans, animals, nature and the environment must not be underestimated because it is necessary to tackle climate change. We must fight on all fronts, so I say to the cabinet. I call on the Minister to do his best to increase energy savings. A law aimed only at speeding up the permit procedure for the construction of wind farms, where it is still unclear how nature is protected, does not simply receive the support of the Party for Animals. We're critical. We're curious about the Minister's answers. We in our group will have to weigh up on the basis of the government's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u11	Mr. Chairman. I think we don't have to explain it to the people in Groningen, the Noordoostpolder, Boxtel and Rotterdam. They are faced with gas extraction, coal-fired power stations and the possibility of extraction of shale gas. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Als er één ding duidelijk is, is het dat de energievoorziening in Nederland schoner moet.]] We must quickly become independent of fossil fuels, oil sheiks and gas barons. This is in the interests of the environment, our public health and our economy. This requires a strong growth of wind farms at sea. The Netherlands has unfortunately been delayed in this respect compared to other countries, for example Germany, the United Kingdom and Denmark, while the Netherlands has everything to be the frontrunner in the field of wind energy. We really have the best scientists in the Netherlands, we have a long and windy coastal strip and we also have a strong offshore industry. The offshore industry is growing strongly because the construction and maintenance of wind farms are becoming increasingly important. It is good that the Wet wind at sea is now ahead to make that start. It is important that the law is adopted quickly, but also that the corresponding legislation is soon clear. I am thinking here of the SDE+ scheme and the Lot Decision. This legislation should increase investment in wind energy at sea. Last week, the pension fund announced its intention to invest in wind farms at sea. According to ABP, this was not interesting for a long time because the technical and financial risks were too high. The Christian Union sees in this law a choice for long-term security and thus an attractive investment climate. Is the Minister talking to the big investors to get more investors across the line? In this week's letter, the Minister mentions huge cost savings. The subsidy amount amounts to EUR 12 billion. This is much lower than the previous maximum estimates of 18 billion. This is due, among other things, to the substantial reduction in costs. That is, of course, very good news. Perhaps the Minister could explain this further? The first tender for offshore wind energy should take place in December 2015. The first SDE+ decision will not be taken until 2016. The energy agreement states that 450 megawatts will be tendered in 2015. But if I put those data together, it seems to me to be virtually impossible. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Trust in a good investment climate was undermined last year by the withdrawal of the existing permits for wind farms at sea, which were valid until 2017. This has been a really bad signal. Companies have had to wait for years and have made a lot of pre-investment. They have also done so on the basis of the Energy Agreement, which refers to the inclusion of existing licences. Why did the minister steer a dent in investors' confidence? Why is there no consultation with the licence holders on the possible inclusion of existing licences in the new round? Why at least didn't we wait until the new round of permits came up? It has now been decided to pay a total of EUR 7 million. I am, frankly, very surprised that the damage is paid out of the SDE+. Citizens and SMEs have to deal with a storage in the energy bill, but the proceeds are not meant to compensate for this government's mistakes. Will the Minister simply pay this compensation out of his own budget? The new law contains all kinds of grounds for withdrawing permits. Article 34 (2) also allows existing licences to be cancelled by universally binding measure. This, for example, does not allow an appeal to the administrative judge. Why hasn't this been submitted to the Council of State? Another point is Article 17. For example, paragraph 1 (c) states that authorisations shall expire if the grant is withdrawn. We consider that to be a remarkable argument. Is it not even inappropriate to use the withdrawal of a subsidy as a reason to withdraw the licence? I do not think this will increase confidence among investors. That is why I have also tabled an amendment to delete this section. I'm going to section d of paragraph 1 of Article 17. Here too, there is plenty of room for interpretation. What is a change in the marketing authorisation holder's financial or technical capabilities? Because my group does not think this part is relevant and because it gives more investment uncertainty, I have tabled an amendment to delete this part. It is, of course, desirable to be able to withdraw a permit when the wind farm can no longer be completed. In that respect, we agree with the Minister. However, we believe that the law already offers ample scope for authorisation holders to comply with the agreements. I also refer to Article 15. I'm here to talk about the net at sea. A very important condition for a rapid realization of wind at sea is clarity about the rapid construction of the network at sea. This means that there must also be a legal indication from the system operator TenneT as soon as possible. There is still no insight into the treatment of the comprehensive law streamlining, optimizing and modernising (STROOM), which regulates, inter alia, the designation of the network operator at sea. Why didn't the Minister choose to appoint a network manager in the current law, the law we are discussing today? Is he prepared, if necessary, to legislate in a separate legislative proposal as soon as possible on the management of the network at sea? We are considering a motion on this point. The size of the costs of the network at sea is still unclear. The Minister claims that designation of TenneT as a network operator reduces costs by 10%. The total amount is 3 billion. What is the basis for this saving? If 10% is 3 billion, what are the total cost of the net at sea? 30 billion euros? This amount is not in Monday's letter. There is not even a single amount mentioned. I'd like some clarity. There is still no clarity about the distribution of costs. For example, the Minister is considering charging some of the costs to the producers, but why are the coal plants in the Eemshaven and the Maasvlakte free to connect to the energy grid? In the past, the Christian Union has already proposed increasing the national uniform producer rate, which is now at zero, which will allow producers to contribute to network costs. Does the Minister now also consider applying this on land, since he is proposing it for wind at sea? Within the 12 mile zone, between 10 and 12 miles, so between 18.5 and 22 kilometers, there are also opportunities to build wind farms at sea. I have read that there are concerns about this, but my group does not think that we should rule it out in advance. It can really be a lot cheaper to build windmills in certain places just within the 12 mile zone. We therefore call on the Minister to go ahead with this. When does the structure vision come to the Chamber and which locations are suitable for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u12	In his letter to the Chamber last Monday on the 12 mile zone, the Minister wrote to the Chamber that it is still being calculated whether it might be more advantageous to carry out the wind farms further at sea, taking all the costs into account. Is Mrs Faber prepared to wait for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u13	I believe that at some point a proposal will come to the Chamber which will include the calculations. My expectation is that this proposal will show that the wind farms are building closer to land, i.e. within the 10 mile zone to 12 mile zone, is more advantageous. I do not think that we will take a decision on this today because it is not part of the legislative process, but it is precisely because of the costs that my group supports. So we are also eagerly looking forward to the Minister's proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u14	If we were to adopt this law today, we think TenneT will get to work. There are still a lot of questions about funding and total costs. Mrs Faber has already drawn attention to this. Is she not afraid that she is already taking irreversible steps and actually shutting down the whole route?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u15	I am a little confused by the questions put by the CDA, because I have seen an amendment passing by which the CDA Group specifically excludes the creation of networks within those 12 mile zone. My plea is that this route should not be closed, but that it should be kept very open. So we will not support the CDA amendment either. In 18.5 kilometers I have to walk almost four hours; that is the distance we are talking about if it is on land. We therefore consider this to be a very acceptable distance, including for coastal towns, tourism and so on. So I think this is a good route. Once again, I am very surprised by the CDA's question because she wants to exclude the route while we want to keep it open. We shall be discussing this with the Minister. I come to my last point, co-use. I also think it is important that co-use, for example by shipping and fishing, is properly aligned with the plans for wind at sea. In the written reply, the Minister also acknowledges that the interests must be properly weighed. Can the Minister promise that those who also use the North Sea will be involved in the plans at an early stage, i.e. the fisheries sector, but also the shipping industry? I have, of course, read the note on the basis of the report. The Minister states that he does, but I hear other noises from the sector, so I would like to have a further explanation. The Minister also left open the option to give priority to mining activities over offshore wind farms. I think this is the world upside down. Mining activities, drilling for oil and gas, no longer fit in this time. We are going to build wind farms at sea to make the switch to renewable energy. It can't be that fossil energy would be given priority. We therefore call on the Minister to give priority to sustainability in these situations. Does he agree with the Christian Union? If he does not promise to do so, we shall also table a motion on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u16	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the Law on wind energy at sea. This law should create clarity and make it easier to build a wind farm at sea, so that we can finally build renewable energy in the Netherlands. This is urgently needed, because the Netherlands is a fence closer in Europe, whereas this transition offers opportunities, for example for our proud offshore industry. D66 is broadly positive about the legislative proposal and in particular about the planned roll-out, the possibility of identifying wind areas and the link between grant and permit to avoid major delays. We need to speed up! My group still has a number of questions about the impact. We too welcomed the good news that it might only cost 12 billion instead of 18 billion, as we read in the Minister's letter. But how hard is that? TenneT will roll out the net at sea and install central outlets. This should save 3 billion grants. Of course, that's wonderful, but what figures are behind the assumptions? That remains unclear. Can the Minister provide any further justification? The energy agreement has agreed a 40% reduction in costs, but it is not yet clear how this 40% will be distributed between government and industry. Can the Minister indicate which part of the 40% should come from innovations and, if so, from which innovations? In the green deal that was concluded at the time, I read that it would involve new foundation techniques, new installation techniques, more efficient wind turbine technologies, better vessels, improving turbine availability, standardising contracts, innovation in connection technologies, environmental innovation and innovation in training and information. It seems to me, then, that most of the cost savings that need to be made will lie with the government. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he sees this. The energy agreement makes it very clear that the cost reduction is not achieved by shifting network costs through socialisation, but by real innovations and productivity gains in the construction and construction of wind farms. Can the Minister confirm that the cost savings of 3 billion do not count for the -40%? This is clearly stated in the energy agreement. How are wind energy companies currently working on this reduction in costs? Where do we see the most progress? The Minister says that for a proportional distribution, the proportions must be the same. But what I have just read shows that in the green deal and the energy agreement some other agreements have been made. In short, we need clarity about the precise distribution of that 40% and the role that the lower costs of the roll-out of the network at sea may or may not play. I ask this because it seems to me to be an adaptation of the agreements made in the energy agreement. TenneT builds a power outlet at sea and makes large investment costs for the preparation, construction and maintenance. Of course, these costs must also be passed on. How does this happen and which parties will ultimately bear the burden? In the first instance, it will be passed on to network charges, which means that it will be paid by all customers. In my view, however, the Minister believes that this is the way to put the companies that consume a lot of energy at a disadvantage. That is why he wants to look at a different division in the legislation STROOM. He explicitly mentions the possibility to reimburse it through the SDE+. However, it would be mainly households who would pay for the construction of the network. Why does the Minister choose to increase the burden on households even further? Of course, it is important to look at the effects of wind at sea on the competitiveness of Dutch companies, but it cannot be that, after the coal tax has already been imposed on households, households will also disproportionately bear the burden of that network at sea. You might even wonder why for the piece of network that happens to be in the water, a different system should be used than for the part of the network that is on land. The Christian Union also referred to this by saying that the costs of connecting a new coal power station are simply socialised. Why does the Minister distinguish between renewable energy and non-sustainable energy? Or are the coal plants going to pay for it? I understand there was an agreement earlier that this could be done. That is why I ask the Minister whether he intends to ensure that he does not discriminate at the time of construction between the different types of energy and treats all forms of energy equally. I would therefore like to know from the Minister well before dealing with STROOM how he is going to pass on the costs of preparation, construction and maintenance. What divisions does he want to make? What financial implications does this have for the Empire, for households and businesses? In the Minister's reply, I would also like to compare his proposal with the expected impact of the energy agreement. I would like a commitment on this point. If the Minister intends to finance this from the SDE+, he also needs to take into account in his reply how much less renewable energy we can then finance with the budget we had planned for it. To what extent is this going to put pressure on the objectives agreed in the Energy Agreement? Then nature. The Minister wants to eliminate part of Dutch nature legislation, because this legislation prevents the construction of wind farms. To be precise, this concerns legislation on the non-intentional killing or injury of protective animals and the deliberate distress of birds. Wind parks will be allowed to ignore these rules. The question is whether this is always necessary. In this way, wind energy companies have no incentive to apply alternatives or to develop innovations that may be less invasive and can minimise their impact on nature. My group believes that setting aside should be possible if it is really necessary, but not by definition as a starting point. That is why I am tabling an amendment to suspend these nature rules under conditions and with the specific approval of the Minister, but the wind farms must look at alternatives that have less impact. Then the location of windmills. With this bill, the Minister can identify the location of windmills. He now plans to allow windmills closer to the coast, because it is cheaper. However, it also has major disadvantages. After all, windmills compete there for other purposes, such as fishing, shipping and recreation. Although that 12 mile zone was never meant to be or was created as a kind of line of sight, we have to note that if you enter it, you can see the windmills from the beach. The question is whether, by definition, that should not be the case. I do not want to go that far, but I do think it is important that this choice is carefully made. The conclusion of the SMEA report on which the Minister is based shows that there are still two gaps in our knowledge. The first place where gaps remain is the possibility that the social disadvantages in some locations appear to be greater than the benefits. In fact, that is a recommendation to take a more location-specific look at where you should want it and where not. Secondly, the impact on coastal economies, including employment effects. It is also said that if you look at it nationally, the picture is positive, but we should take a closer look at the impact at certain locations. Can the Minister promise that he will do further research on this first? When windmills are allowed both inside and outside the 12 mile zone, we are also faced with two types of legal systems, namely the territorial sea and the exclusive economic zone. Has the Minister considered whether this could lead to possible legal complications which could, for example, result from administrative burdens, lead to the loss of part of the cost advantage? Then there is the legal position of the various parties. Of course, it is for everyone the absolute preference that the government, together with the coastal provinces and the coastal communities, should reach agreement on the locations of the lots of wind at sea on the basis of consensus. No one wants different levels of government to bring each other to justice. However, my group does not think it is the right way to abolish the legal status of local authorities in advance by applying the Crisis and Recovery Act and to make the property decision inaccessible to the profession. D66 has always been critical of the Crisis and Recovery Act. It can be used to speed up decisions, but not to reduce recourse and participation to controversial decisions. That is why my group is tabling an amendment in which the accelerated legal procedures of the Crisis and Recovery Act are applied, so that we can speed up, but not the limitation of remedies to the Lot Decision applies. Then there's the tenders. They are an important part of the law. In order to keep pace, the deadlines should not be too short. At the same time, it is important that it remains realistic. After all, participants must have sufficient time to unsubscribe a geode tender. Can the Minister state what the precise timing for the start of the procurement procedure will be? Do the participating companies have all the data available at that time so that they can use their time effectively? I wonder whether the European procurement rules apply here. Perhaps the Minister can clarify that. It is about large public tender procedures, but it is subsidies and licensing, it is not public procurement. It seems important to me to have clarity on this point for all parties. I seem to recall that we have already discussed my next point with each other, but I am not sure. That is why I would like to bring it up again when dealing with this bill. In the case of permits, there is always a certain lead time from the moment a proposal is submitted to the time when it is finally built. In the meantime, if there are innovations that an initiator would like to implement because he thinks that this will improve the return or reduce the impact, are the permits designed so that such technological innovations remain possible, even if there is some time between the moment of authorisation and the moment of implementation? With this bill, the Minister wants to cancel the old permits because the new locations are cheaper. I have some questions about that. I think we all hope that it doesn't happen, but if the new system is going to happen at a later date, what will happen? Have we burned our ships in advance? Isn't it more logical to hold the old permits until the permit for the equivalent of megawatts is granted under the new system? This means that the old licences will not expire until the new licences have actually been granted. Is there agreement on compensation already? In his letter, the Minister merely states that he has calculated the compensation he considers he could offer, but he also states that the parties are always free not to make use of it. That leaves it in the middle or there's agreement on this. Hence my question to the Minister. I also ask the Minister why compensation is not simply paid out of the budget and is now withdrawn from the SDE+ scheme. On the contrary, this minister kept his back straight, even if there were many good ideas, for example on financing energy savings from the SDE+ scheme. Then he said: no, the SDE+ scheme really only serves to generate renewable energy. Then why is this kind of thing being compensated for? Perhaps the Minister, having heard the Chamber say that this was only an option and that this is not happening. This law is urgently needed. My group therefore hopes that we will get to work quickly with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u17	The law is badly needed if we are to achieve wind energy at sea, but there are quite a few open ends at the moment. Is the D66 Group prepared to wait for the SME research at the 12 mile limit? If we say yes now, TenneT will start preparations and so will the parks within that 12 mile zone. How does the D66 Group view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u18	I do not think we should stop everything, but I await the Minister's response to this point. This will also have to do with the time he thinks he needs to conduct those investigations. That is why I would like to await the Minister's response to this point first. If he says he's got the tests in a month, we can be sure. If it's really going to take a while, it's also about balancing the risks you're taking. In the windmill park that is now planned off the coast, there are a number of mills within the 12 mile zone, but the bulk of the mills is outside. So you could also say that you still want a windmill park there, but that you move those few mills within the 12 mile zone to the other side of the park. Then the preparation costs are not entirely made for nothing. Also when optimizing the design of the park you can take those results from the studies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u19	In itself, this is a clear answer. I would like to have some clarity and insight into the effects on coastal sites, particularly in relation to the research which is still to come and which the Minister stated in his letter last Monday. We would like to wait to have real certainty about this, especially for our citizens there and for their support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u20	Then I have a counter-question for Mrs Mulder: how long is she prepared to postpone this? How much delay can this take? Is this allowed to endanger the first tender for the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u21	I suggest that you ask Mrs Mulder when it is her turn to be questioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u22	Certainly, Mr President, but then she will be able to prepare herself for that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u23	Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks, my party, has been a warm supporter of a rapid transition to sustainable and clean energy since its inception. This includes energy efficiency but also all clean energy sources. We are therefore in principle in favour of this law and of achieving as much decent wind as possible at sea as quickly as possible. 2014 was the hottest year ever. According to the International Energy Agency, we're heading for a 3.6-degree temperature increase. I really do miss the sense of urgency in this government and in a number of colleagues that it is not just a matter of waiting for an investigation or trying to figure something out, but that we need to move quickly. I was therefore astonished, together with my colleague from the Christian Union, at the fact that this minister wants to give priority to mining at sea over wind at sea. I really do not understand that, when you look at what the energy agreement is for. Do we really feel urgency and do we want to do everything possible to achieve as much clean energy as possible in the Netherlands or is it one of the many things that keep all energy options open: everything a little bit and not too fast? I see my colleague from the VVD nodding in agreement. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, windmills at sea are an important step in the energy transition. The mills that can be built with this law represent almost one fifth of the production needed to achieve the goal of clean energy for 2023 that this government itself has set itself. So there's a hurry. Mills at sea will produce almost one fifth of the electricity needed in the Netherlands. We therefore welcome every step, especially when it comes to wind at sea. Everyone who has campaigned in recent months knows that there is a very broad support for the Dutch population for wind at sea. In the previous round, with the licences that will expire with the introduction of this law, there was also great enthusiasm among companies for this to happen. There is a great deal of time pressure on the implementation of the energy agreement. In the case of wind on land and also in the case of energy-saving parts of the energy agreement, we are already experiencing delays. In our view, therefore, this Minister has a very great responsibility to monitor the timetable for wind at sea. The last time we debated this was during the 30-member debate on wind at sea. The Minister then urged the Chamber that laws should not be dealt with quickly enough. I also said at the time that I find it very annoying if it is up to us to say that it is too long before the wind agreement is carried out at sea. I asked the Minister a timeline, which indicates what we should do at what rate to ensure that wind is carried out at sea on time. At that time, I heard from my colleagues at PvdA, he is not here at the moment, and the VVD agrees: we must all deal with this here and get it through the Chamber. I am still curious about the timetable: what order should be taken to ensure that we reach those timelines of the energy agreement. A small point back to the Minister: it apparently took a month to get a note to the Chamber following the report. Also yesterday's letter came two weeks later than announced. If we all have to speed up, the Minister is right to ask the Chamber. But then we in turn ask the Minister whether the same degree of urgency is present in the ministry. Colleagues have already asked a question about the first tender and the tendering procedure. Can we do that before the STROOM Act comes into force? Is it possible to organise that tender by December of this year at the latest? We have often crossed swords about reducing costs. We have tried in every possible way to get a real underpinning of that 3 billion from the minister. Several colleagues have asked questions about this. I quote the Minister last month: "I talked about the 3 billion TenneT realizes and is part of the 40% cost savings. It is even more nuanced: part of the 3 billion falls below 40% and another part is outside." My colleague from D66 just referred to the agreements in the energy agreement, because they say something else. But from the letter we received, perhaps I am not making it entirely correct that the savings fall entirely within the 40% reduction unless TenneT will save even more. Is that right? How's that? Can the Minister make one last attempt to explain to the Chamber how these sums are put together? First it was: the agreed 40% reduction in costs at sea can be achieved by companies. Next came the minister with the outlet at the sea of TenneT. Is it true that the original 40% would never have been reached if TenneT hadn't been brought in? How expensive will the connection, that power outlet, of the wind farms at sea be? How much cheaper is the whole thing than the situation that it would be done on land lines? The wind energy companies themselves talked about 3.5 billion. This information is important for the Court to be able to assess the system of cost allocation in the near future. Colleagues already asked, who gets what cost? Why is it out of the SDE+ grant? Does it end up with the citizens? Which part of it does large companies pay for it? Why do we have different treatment of coal-fired power stations on the one hand and wind at sea on the other? I'd like an answer. We find it strange, like other parties, that compensation to companies that had a licence comes from the SDE grant. It's really meant for clean energy, we thought. What costs for transport have been incurred by consumers and by large companies? Can we get an overview of that? During my period in the Chamber, I experienced the coal tax and the weed tax. If power cannot be attributed to someone, the bill mainly goes to consumers. We've had the Aldel tax. For one reason or another, large companies keep the network stable and consumers have to pay for it. There is now the example of a school and an Albert Heijn who cannot create a direct line that can save costs, whereas companies are allowed to do so. Can we get a complete overview of the costs that have been incurred by consumers and the costs that have been incurred by large consumers? In February, I tabled a motion on the responsibility for timely connection to the network. Soon, companies will have set up a wind farm. You don't hope so, but let's say TenneT doesn't manage to connect them in time. I held my motion because the Minister would give me a quick answer. Can the Minister give us an answer yet? Is there a setup yet? Does the Minister agree with GroenLinks that the risk of a late connection has been chosen by the Minister for TenneT... cannot reach the builder or the operator? Does he have any ideas as to where it should end up? Article 17 (1) (c) allows the Minister to withdraw the authorisation if the SDE+ decision lapses. I would like to hear in what cases this article would be necessary. Can the Minister outline a situation which clearly shows that this is a reasonable part of this law? Why do you need that? My group is afraid that this will create additional uncertainty, and any additional uncertainty will drive up the price or make the implementation period longer. SDE+ has potential, but so far it has not turned out to be a pioneering tool for moving to clean energy. It has often occurred in the Netherlands that new Cabinets are thinking of new systems. So it is possible that something will change in the long term. Our group believes that in such a case the operator should have certainty about the permit and the subsidy. How do we protect investors who will be even more hesitant after the previous round of experiences with the changing energy policy? How do we lure investors to our wind farms? As co-legislator, I do not want to be responsible for the expiry of existing permits to build wind farms if the Minister cannot explain this necessity to the Chamber. The Minister comes up with arguments that it is clumsy and unclear to have two systems side by side. I would almost say that I cannot identify an area in the Netherlands where we do not have two regimes next to each other. We have five or six of them sometimes. An sich is not a convincing argument for me. The other argument that the minister is using is that there is a D66 chamber motion. That does not seem to me to be the decisive argument for the withdrawal of licences. GroenLinks would say: don't throw away old shoes until you have new ones. That is also stated in our amendment. We keep the license as a backup in case there's a kink in the cable. There are still three pieces of legislation to be adopted and a whole tender has yet to be completed. Don't throw those old shoes away until the new ones arrive. I have a loose question about the pleasure boating in wind farms. I know that there is consultation with all the different associations that organise sailing from the coast and sailing competitions. I know that Britain has settled this satisfactorily. That already has many more wind farms off the coast that sail ships can go through. I know there's been a meeting. Maybe the Minister can give us some answers. We are now working very hard to achieve the energy agreement. GroenLinks wants more, but we'll have to move on anyway. Does this law provide a good basis for the further expansion of our capacity at sea? What steps should we take if we want to grow to 4,450 MW? What's that all about? What are we supposed to do? Finally. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has a number of additional questions about this law, but it would like to work with colleagues to achieve wind at sea as quickly as possible. It is therefore in principle in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u24	I do not hear GroenLinks express any concern about the natural effects of windmills at sea. In any case, the Party for Animals is concerned about the ease with which the cabinet bikes the nature conservation test in those lot decisions. How's that for GroenLinks? How does GroenLinks estimate these effects and the possible damage to underwater life, as the North Sea is not already the most robust ecological marine system in the world?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u25	Like the Party for Animals, I am very much in favour of the creation of the marine reserves. I have had the opportunity to protest for the Borkum Stones and other marine reserves in a previous working life, so I would like to do so. I have also seen research showing that a wind farm can also provide a rest point, provided that fishing is prevented from such an area. So I see pluses and minuses. I agree with the Animal Party that we should look at better materials at a wind farm and whether we can work with less degradation. I think those wind farms should get there. If it is really necessary, Mrs van Veldhoven said that I also believe that some things should be set aside, but that should not be done as an automatic procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u26	I remember those actions for the Borkum Stones. It is sad that the Netherlands still does not protect that area despite Mrs Van Tongeren's commitment to a previous life. It is also a little sad that government policy is actually so that the only way that there is no further disturbance of nature in an area at sea, so that there is no ground-breaking fishing, is if we put wind farms there, so that the boats really cannot get there. It also feels a bit acidic, to stay in terms of the acidification of the ocean, that the cabinet leaves so many things to do in the area of nature protection and the need to save energy while also dusting and undressing nature protection rules. Can we look together at whether the cabinet can use this as a harsh condition because you cannot transfer energy and climate failures to the North Sea?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u27	GroenLinks also believes that things such as fishing and mining should be severely restricted and that more protected nature should be created in the North Sea. I know that my colleague, Mr Klaver, who is a spokesperson in the field of nature, likes to hang out with the Animal Party in order to build up as many guarantees as possible. Indeed, it is very annoying to be pushed into a position where you have to choose between two evils. Climate change affects nature all over the planet. By doing something about it, you affect nature in part locally. If I could make a total set of measures for the North Sea, the North Sea would indeed be much better. That's where we like to hang out with the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u28	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u29	I was done, Mr. Chairman. The last sentence is that we are in favour of this law and I would like to see as much wind at sea as possible achieved as quickly as possible under sensible conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u30	Mr. Chairman. Whether you adhere to creation or evolution, without sun, water, oxygen and nutrients like phosphate, there would be no life on earth. The question is whether this also applies to wind. That's an interesting question. Although wind is sometimes perceived as annoying, if there is too much, we would not have sailed the oceans without wind to delight us all over Asia, Africa and Latin America in goods, spices and even slaves. Kinderdijk was the first Dutch place with an electricity supply, in 1886. The mill complex is now a beautiful piece of world heritage. Also in the music you can see the rise of the wind. We had to do it for a long time with Earth & Fire. That was not a punishment in itself, but only with the arrival of Earth, Wind & Fire was the circle round. The song Fantasy is a bit of a model for the not so ordinary bill that we are dealing with here today. We are not the first country to be engaged in wind at sea. This brings me to my first general question to the Minister: what is the international place of the Netherlands in terms of wind at sea? What strengths and weaknesses do we have? If you look at the whole field, you will see knowledge, employment and specific expertise on the one hand, and on the other hand, because it is such a busy country, location choice, integration and the relationship with other sea uses. As for the latter: if you fly to England once in clear weather, you can see how busy it is on the North Sea. I hear positive sounds about the plot decision as a plan figure, among others from nature and environmental organisations. With the Environmental Act, this would turn into a project decision. However, we still have to deal with that law. I would like to fight a little bit more about this with the Minister of Infrastructure and the Environment, because many people who come out of the Crisis and Recovery Act will go one-on-one to the Environment Act. Mrs Van Veldhoven has already mentioned this. That is why it is right that the Crisis and Recovery Act should now be thoroughly evaluated. However, my question to the Minister is this: could not the land-use decision on the basis of the Land-use Planning Act also have been formulated as a national plan for integration? Then you're in a slightly different system. I also have a question about Natura 2000. Is that well sealed in the eyes of the Minister? At Borssele you have conservation objectives for the Voordelta, seal populations and so on. Are the agreements in that now well secured? What remains of the aquatic ecology, which Mrs Van Tongeren also mentioned? You're gonna have to fund it. That's causing unrest on the sea floor. Afterwards, it can become a hiding place for fish. You can build a biodiversity with that. How much more do we know about that and how much more should we possibly know about it? I'll be on the 12 mile zone. There is a lot to do about the distance from the wind farms to the coast and how TenneT can take care of the connection. This, of course, also has an impact on the costs and therefore on the subsidy. The letter sent by the Minister earlier this week does clarify that point. It's still a bit of a puzzle. That is why I have this question: what is the difference in costs and benefits if you take the 12 mile zone as a hard limit or not? To what extent has the allocation of the grid connections to TenneT been taken into account in the difference between costs and benefits? The coastal provinces welcome the additional employment in the wind sector, but for the resorts it seems to be a drain. Research shows that the closer a wind farm is, the greater the impact on tourism and the associated employment. Do the provinces have anything to eat when the lot decisions are taken? Has the minister himself been to Zandvoort, Noordwijk and Scheveningen to talk to entrepreneurs and residents about this? What opportunities does he see to meet people in any way? I am looking forward to that, as is my entire group. I come to employment and investment. Wind at sea has so far been working for 2,200 people in the Netherlands, I have read. According to the energy agreement, I believe Pillar 8, we have to add 15,000 jobs, a large part of which are in the offshore wind sector. Is that notion in the energy agreement still up to date? Is the number of 15,000 still true? How many people would become active in offshore winds? Is that a gross or a net number? In the Provinciale Zeelandse Courant you can read that wind at sea gives a strong boost to employment in Vlissingen. The success may even run with Vlissingen. The question is whether there is enough skilled technical staff. If not, are we going to get people from outside? Or does the Minister expect us to be able to provide the necessary expertise in Vlissingen and perhaps in Den Helder and the other places where this sector will manifest, given his involvement in, for example, the technology pact? Nor is it insignificant and positive that the ABP has come to terms. At first, the fund only wanted to invest in hydropower in Norway, but now it wants to invest several hundred millions in wind farm Borssele. Pension funds must, of course, be careful and think carefully about what they are putting their money into. My group agrees with that, but there is now a sheep over the dam. How does the Minister see this? Is this the first sheep over the dam? If so, which investors does he see hiding behind this? What happens if companies go bankrupt during construction? Risk and liability are also issues that need to be mentioned here. Lately, builders have been too often signing up to competitively priced tenders. Now Ballast Nedam is in the news and Heijmans has had similar problems. I refer to the calls for tenders in public transport. Veolia went to court because the concessions were priced too sharply, so that a concession could only be brought below the cost price. What about that? What if, for example, TenneT cannot deliver because it would be in trouble because of its risky company in Germany? What about the risk-sharing? How much time does the Minister take between knowing all the information about a lot, i.e. soil characteristics, water depth and other matters, and closing the time limit for the submission of tenders? I call Delta that will take green power from Borssele. However, if Delta is forced to split at the same time, which will then result in a lower ranking of investment agencies, Delta might end the story. This was so literally told by the boss during the round table we had recently. You're taking a risk with that, too. What about liability in the event of accidents? What if a ship hits a windmill? What's the deal with that? My next point concerns costs. According to the Minister, with a cost reduction of 0.5 cents per kWh per year until 2023, you will receive a subsidy of 12 billion euros to 2038. I hope I put it so well. Is the reduction in costs proposed in the letter real? You'd say this is the case when you look at solar panels and residential insulation. That goes fast and the price drops once it gets mass and volume. A few years ago, housing insulation cost about €70,000 per house and now that is half. What benefits have been taken into account? It is very important for our citizens to be able to explain what we are spending 12 billion on. If entrepreneurs and customers want it and the technology gets approval, the price goes down. That rhythm is in the economy. The bigger question is where is the minister's control room? Of course, you can leave it to the entrepreneurs and to the people and companies that are taking off steam and gas, but it is a question of whether the Minister can steer even more on demand and supply. It is his job to move the price of fossil and sustainable to each other as quickly as possible. That is the essence of the energy agreement and of the law of which this debate forms part. You should take advantage of the fact that E.ON, for example, has changed his business model. You have to take advantage of the fact that a large pension fund sees bread in the wind at sea, that the NS is completely switched to green electricity, that Purmerend now has a bioheat plant and that everything really happens. The energy market is, in the physical sense of the word, a chaotic system. The challenge for the Minister is therefore to press the right buttons just at the right time, to keep pace. That does require flexibility. I hope the Minister has it. We have other dossiers where we believe that flexibility is less visible, but perhaps this is not the case. I would like to mention a few things that the Minister can think about. We could work towards higher electricity prices and lower energy taxes, so that ultimately it does not matter to the consumer, but the market price of fossil and sustainable is brought closer together at a faster pace. After all, a higher electricity price will also lead to the higher savings we also want. Faster financing of industrial isolation and the use of feed-in tariffs can also help speed things up. There is something else that my group considers to be very important. Because everything is happening, because there is a lot of decentralised generation and because there are zero-on-the-meter houses, the SDE+ scheme has to be coughed up by a shrinking population. That is a kind of second-order dynamic that I think we still have too little in our fingers. I ask the Minister if he can steer more on these points. Finally. On this bill, I have in mind the people who want to join a more sustainable society, but who can afford little or no extra expenditure. Unfortunately, there are quite a few. This is not about the people in the Houthavens in Amsterdam, who can buy an energy label A apartment without gas connection and with a heat-cold storage. I am concerned about the people in a poorly-insulated housing unit, the people who do not understand the energy bill properly, the people who do not easily take the step towards energy saving and the people who we should actually take care of at this point. My group does not want this storage for renewable energy to help these people at the end of their money to have an even bigger month than is already the case. What does the Minister intend to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u31	Mr Smaling spoke about the support for those wind turbine parks at sea. This is lacking in the coastal municipalities of North and South Holland. We have had a lot of e-mails about this. I assume Mr. Smaling is, too. He's asking the Minister what he's gonna do about it. My question to Mr Smaling is: what does the SP intend to do about it? If the SP is really worried about that support, she should vote against this law. Or does the SP have any other ideas?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u32	The SP considers support to be very important; Mrs Klever also knows that. Seaside resorts might get into this. They have had a number of things calculated; therefore I bring this up now. For places like Den Helder and Vlissingen it is positive and for the port area in Rotterdam as well, because it provides a lot of extra activity. You've got to take that into account. The Netherlands is of course one big backyard, because there are so many people. If that 10 or 12 miles are also part of that backyard, we have to weigh things up and see what's going to make the difference at some point. If you can do all this without a ten-mile radius, please. That is why I ask the Minister to do the same. However, before we come to our final weighing-up, I would like to have a debate on this first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u33	So the SP says that acceptance is important, but I understand that support for the SP is not so important and decisive that it will eventually vote against this law if it is not there. And we've been able to read that there isn't that kind of support. So the SP doesn't go that far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u34	If there's not enough support, you can do different things. You can vote against the law. You can also talk to the residents and entrepreneurs and try to meet them. You can see how much revenue loss there really is, and see if such a wind farm can offer tourist opportunities because people can go there. Of course, there are all kinds of possibilities to discuss. Until we have talked to the people there and it appears that there is no common alternative on the table with which to live, there is no reason to vote against this law as far as I am concerned. If we say in advance that we are going to do so, we should not have written the whole energy agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u35	Thank you for your contribution. Mr Dijkgraaf has informed me that he is unfortunately prevented from taking part in the debate. That is why I am now giving the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u36	Mr. Chairman. The main objective of the SER energy agreement is to reduce CO emissions. By achieving greater sustainable energy supply in our country, we become less dependent on fossil fuels, which have to be supplied from abroad or come from our own country. The CDA recognises the importance of a more sustainable energy supply. We must work together on the transition to a sustainable energy supply, through projects on a large scale, and certainly on a small scale. Today we are talking about a legislative proposal that lays the foundations for a very large project, namely making it possible to build wind farms at sea. With these windmills we want to achieve sixty petajoule wind power in 2023. That is one sixth of the total target for renewable energy in 2023. This is a huge investment in sustainability. The CDA believes that we need to deal with this financially carefully and properly. The minister was at the negotiating table and the House of Representatives wasn't. The main thrust of the CDA is the major steps taken by the Energy Agreement, but as a representative of the people, I also see it as my task to monitor and ask questions. The first question is whether our money is being spent well. In particular, there is still a great deal of uncertainty at the CDA about the cost savings of 40% that the Minister wants to achieve. At the start of this mega-project, the CDA wants to make sure that this cost savings will be made. For example, the CDA Group wonders what total cost savings will be achieved. It is not a percentage per kilowatt hour. The starting point is that 40% reduction of all costs in the €0.15, i.e. the infra and turbines. What's the distribution like? We are pleased to receive clarification today from the Minister. Does the Minister expect the parties to register the proposed maximum amounts for the tender? What does the Minister do if no parties register under the proposed maximum amounts? How does the Minister estimate that? In the present legislative proposal, TenneT is designated to take preparatory actions for connections with new wind farms at sea. The cost savings that would result from this would be 10%. Last Monday's letter states that the designation of TenneT as a network operator at sea will save 3 billion. The energy agreement states that this cost reduction is not due to the shift in network costs through socialisation, but rather to real innovations and productivity gains in the construction and construction of wind farms at sea. What is the total amount TenneT needs for the roll-out of wind at sea? What would be the cost if the initiators of the wind farms built the connections to the grid themselves? Can the Minister give an overview to the Court of Justice of how savings by cost item are achieved? Is a saving of 3 billion by TenneT not very much, compared to the total cost of the expected 12 billion to a maximum of 18 billion in the SDE+ scheme? Is that real? Can the Minister back it up? And how long will this cost reduction be achieved? Other groups were also very critical on this point. That is why I think there is a need for a Chamber-wide support. So what guarantee is there that this cost savings will be achieved and what agreements has the Minister made with TenneT on this matter? How can the Court monitor that this cost reduction is actually achieved? Our group will not agree to the law if there is no sound financial justification for the way in which and against which a 10% reduction in costs is achieved by designating TenneT. We are also waiting for information on calculations of the possible lower costs for wind farms further off the coast. In his letter last Monday, the Minister states that he will soon inform the Chamber about this. When exactly is that? The Minister wants to offset all or part of TenneT's costs with the SDE+ scheme. In the drafting of the STROOM bill, the Minister indicated how TenneT's costs would be financed. Our group considers this to be fundamentally the wrong order. First, there must be complete clarity about the costs, then we must begin. This law is not about the very specific designation of the areas. However, I would like to stress once again that the CDA Group is very critical of the realisation of wind farms off the Dutch coast within the 12 mile zone. Other groups have already expressed their concerns about this. In Germany, windmills have been deliberately chosen to be placed far off the coast because of tourism. The German tourist wouldn't like it. Now we can welcome many German tourists every year in the coastal communities. Partly for this reason, the CDA Group would like to further realize the wind farms outside the 12 mile zone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u37	This view of the CDA Group is not entirely unexpected. Windmills on land must not come near where people live and they want a nuclear power plant, but they do not say where because of course there will be local resistance. And now there are windmills at sea and they are not allowed at 10 miles but have to come outside the 12 mile zone. The CDA Group has just called on the Minister to pay a great deal of attention to the cost of wind at sea, but now I ask Mrs Mulder: where do you want to get coverage for the extra cost of further off-shore wind farm at sea, as you so beautifully propose here? If you take the other one's measure, I'll take it with you, too, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u38	We have already indicated at WHO Energy that we would not want the windmills within the 12 mile zone. That is why it will have been no surprise for the PvdA Group that I am keeping the exact same story today. We are concerned that we have a good idea of the total cost. Perhaps the PvdA Group has a clear picture of all the cost savings. We could, but we don't have that right now. That is the financial soundness that the PvdA group of a party such as the CDA can expect; we are critical of this. We have still not seen the calculations of further off-shore sites. That is why we are saying at the moment: we would like to see these calculations. After you have weighed it against the job losses that can be expected in the coastal communities, you have to make the financial assessment. That could mean you're gonna have to pull your pipes a few meters further. And that's not free, that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u39	I note that the CDA Group is re-entering the opposition role. It opposes the government's plans, proposes more expensive plans and does not provide cover for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u40	I believe that we are talking about a total of 18 billion set aside in the SDE+ scheme. We would now reach 12 billion. Since I do not have any calculations about the possibilities that lie a little further off the coast, I cannot put an amount on them now. So it's hard to judge whether you want to or not. I assume that we will assess matters on the basis of concrete proposals, and Mr Vos may always appeal to the CDA Group on financial soundness.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u41	Mrs Mulder spoke just now about concrete proposals, including proposals from the cabinet concerning the installation of wind turbines within or outside the 12 mile zone. I have an amendment in my hands in which the CDA Group, when dealing with this bill, seems to indicate that it does not want to be built within the 12 mile zone at that distance. Why don't you just wait and see? In this interruption, I am asking Mrs Mulder exactly the same question she asked me. My group is prepared to take another look at the pros and cons, but with a positive attitude. Why is the CDA party closing the door already?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u42	In fact, we have already indicated that we have great difficulty in building within the 12 mile zone. We have already made this quite clear in the Energy legislative consultation. We have not yet received any data showing that this could be done in a good way, but we are now basically making it possible to carry out all the plans as they originally appeared in the wind energy at sea and in the structural vision. We have great difficulty in abandoning this opportunity now, because we really want to make it clear where we stand on this point. That is why we feel this way, as we indicated earlier in the Energy legislative consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u43	I would very much like to hear from the CDA Group about the exact costs involved if we are going to build further away, who is going to pay those costs and why the 12-mile limit was chosen, not 10 miles, or there is no piece of randomness in it, etc. The job losses in tourism have been mentioned. All assumptions have been made that we do not have complete clarity about at the moment. I would therefore ask the CDA Group once again why, in my words, it is now quite easy to come up with an amendment which states that 12 miles is the border and that it should never get any closer, no matter what it costs and whatever it gives us. Why all this amendment now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u44	Because we are going to have to deal with the impact in underlying regulations. This is the time to be absolutely clear about this. As far as funding is concerned, I have just been clear in my reply to the PvdA Group. I assume that's what Mrs Dik-Faber heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u45	My question to the CDA Group will not come unexpectedly. Why does it choose the completely arbitrary border of the 12 mile zone? After all, it has not been said at all that the windmills are no longer visible at 12.1 miles, which is the only thing proposed in the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u46	There would be a meeting recently in which this visualization would become clear, but that meeting has been cancelled and then I become suspicious. Then I think: why can't that just become very clear and visible? We have the idea that it's too visible within the 12 mile zone. We have great difficulty with this, especially because of the German tourists who often visit our beautiful coast. We believe it is important for tourism in our coastal towns to continue, and that is why we are fighting for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u47	The CDA Group has heard that I have also called in my contribution for a proper balance to be struck between the different interests. I note, however, that the CDA Group in fact excludes something in the law without any justification on the basis of a kind of gut feeling of 'gosh, this might lead to a wrong cost-benefit analysis'. However, one could also say that there is the possibility in the law, but of course we do not need to use it if the underlying cost-benefit analyses are negative. Why does the CDA not choose that route and actually exclude it before the facts are on the table, while we could still do so on the basis of a negative cost-benefit analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u48	We, of course, pointed out at the Energy legislative consultation in November that this was a very important point for us because of tourism in coastal towns. This has also been investigated by the coastal towns themselves. It turns out it would actually cost jobs. This does not seem to us to be a good thing, knowing that this also plays a role for the German tourists who come here and that they choose to do it in Germany. Then the D66 Group may think that this may have happened at random. I don't think so. We also weigh that argument. We would rather look at the total cost before we say: we are not going to do it further at sea. That is where it seems to go with this law, and that is what we want to rule out today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u49	The CDA has so far supported all windmill plans of this cabinet. Over the last few months, we've been hearing the CDA talk more about support. We're talking about the coastal communities now. There is no support for the plans for windmills at sea. The CDA has drawn up an amendment to ensure that wind turbines are not located at least close to coastal areas. How hard is the CDA's demand? Is it a tough condition? Does the CDA reject the law if this amendment is not adopted?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u50	I have indicated that the justification of the total costs, including the costs of TenneT and the savings indicated, is an important factor for us in assessing this law, including the 12 mile zone. A large number of parties in this Chamber have great difficulty in building within that 12 mile zone. Suppose the Minister now indicates that he would like to look seriously at it again and wait for final decision-making until he has complete clarity about the consequences, then that goes in a direction I might agree with. However, I do not yet know what the Minister is going to say. So I'm gonna wait and see how the minister reacts, but I think he should make a move towards the coastal communities. Because you can't let it go on like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u51	That is something of a weakening, because the CDA has always been very critical of this point so far, in the sense that there must be support for it. However, I understand now that it is not a tough condition for the CDA. It's one of the conditions the CDA lays down. It is important for the CDA, but not so important that it would launch this law on this basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u52	That is a conclusion that Mrs Klever draws. I have not yet reached the conclusion on whether or not to support this law on the basis of the overall package. This is an important consideration for the CDA Group. That is absolutely clear, and that was already clear in the legislative consultation on energy. So that's what we'll definitely test this law on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u53	In my opinion, the CDA still has in its programme that it wants 14% clean energy in the Netherlands by 2020. That is about the minimum level we have committed ourselves to in Europe. Mrs Mulder knows as well as I do that the chances of achieving this are very small, even if we are moving at maximum speed. On the one hand, the CDA is now saying that renewable energy is needed. On the other hand, I see slowing movements. Does the CDA want to reaffirm that 14% of clean energy needs to be achieved by 2020 and that it needs to be speeded up, or is it allowed to do so ten years later?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u54	Do you know what it is? All the calculations show that we are not going to reach 14% by 2020. Which route do you choose to get as close to that goal as possible with maximum support, maximum employment and innovation? The calculations are there. We are going for it, but we do want to see whether we can do it with maximum support, further at sea. I say to the PvdA Group and to other groups that we will also look closely at the costs, but the cost that we are making today is transparency. I have always found Mrs Van Tongeren on my path: we want that cost to be transparent. Then you come to financial sustainability. I don't think it's clear enough right now. Then I'm not gonna sign on the cross.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u55	I hear Mrs Mulder say that we want 14% clean energy by 2020 if we can. However, that needs to be investigated, there will be delays and these parks really need to be as far away from the coast as possible. In Belgium or in Castricum in the Netherlands, parks are really close to the coast without this having an effect on tourism. Is it just a little populism now? On the one hand, for the green people in the grassroots, the CDA says it wants clean energy. On the other hand, for the coastal communities, the CDA says: calm down, we'll make sure it doesn't come near you. That is exactly the same movement that we saw when wind hit land: hugging the target, but then making it impossible to make it. Is that what the CDA is doing right now, having a chat for the often?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u56	It is a pity that Mrs Van Tongeren takes it that way, but that is up to her. We would like to achieve things with support. You can push it through from above; for that route GroenLinks seems to choose. That's not the CDA's route. We would like to achieve things with support from the bottom up. Sometimes you just need a few more months to get that right. Then I say: take that time to not be very sorry later, in 10 or 20 years' time. This is a different route from the one that GroenLinks chooses, but it is the long-term objective. The CDA Group wants to achieve this as much as the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u57	Windmill park Egmond aan Zee near Wijk aan Zee is about 10 kilometers from the coast, not 10 miles. We have that as a kind of reference point. I don't want to trivialize the fact that entrepreneurs and residents in seaside resorts are afraid of what's going to happen. What if the Minister, when he talks to the residents and the entrepreneurs, comes to an agreement for compensation, for example, I do not have in mind one-two-three what is the CDA Group prepared to go for the plans that are now there and to let go of the 12 mile limit contained in the amendment? Or isn't that negotiable?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u58	I was pleased with Mr Smaling's questions to the Minister. He asked the minister to talk to the people there and see what the possibilities are. In the case of wind on land, we see that things are going wrong at the back because they have not picked it up properly at the front. If we now make exactly the same mistake with wind at sea, we will be further away from home and we will not achieve our objective. That's what I'm really worried about. I think the SP Group is doing the same. I would like to hear what the Minister has to say later and what he will or will not do. However, I have to say that we have a great deal of difficulty with much larger windmills than those that are already on our shores at the moment. You're talking about a different type of windmill, with more megawatts. That'll make the image different. When the Minister talks to the people, let him be absolutely clear about what it looks like, so that people can feel about it and consider it with each other. The question is whether the Minister is prepared to offer so much space. At the moment, I simply want to prevent us from being on the road for a while, so to speak, that we have said that placement within that 12 mile zone will simply be the option. I want to avoid that we have stood together and looked at it, but then it is said: you should have indicated clearly at an earlier point where you stand. That's what I'm doing here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u59	Can I refer to the amendment at the moment as a stick behind the door for the rest of the debate rather than to the fact that the CDA Group is putting a kind of Berlin wall on the border of the 12 mile zone?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u60	Well, it depends on what's going on outside that door. If there's no movement in it, I'll just keep it up like this. Suppose the minister comes up with the statement that he really wants to talk to the coastal communities and that it looks at the possibilities of putting it down differently. It is possible that after a good consultation of the inhabitants and visualization, the coastal communities may say: it's a bit of a pity to us, we would have known it sooner. What if this happens? As far as I'm concerned, it may have that chance. However, I am sticking to my amendment, to the CDA's view that you should not do it at the expense of the inhabitants. I want to keep that up. So we should wait a little while before adopting this law. If that's possible, we can certainly talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u61	I would like to continue on this point. I understand that in the end the CDA also says: we don't know everything yet and it's important to keep the possibility open to further research and further discussion. However, I believe, looking at the legal text, that it is not technically necessary to comply with the law now, because the law merely outlines an option and does not say: we are going to do so. However, we must ask the Minister. So, after the adoption of the law, you can still consider whether you are actually going to do it. In addition, you could make several suggestions to the Minister on important points. However, that is more for a motion than for an amendment. I do not think it is technically necessary to enforce the law in this respect. This in turn results in a great deal of delay and puts the roll-out and achievement of the objectives at risk. Can the CDA Group confirm that it is not up to it to do so, that it chooses progress wherever possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u62	If we want to achieve these objectives, we will have to achieve a great deal of wind at sea, in that total energy mix we have. We just think that we should be very clear about which direction the Minister should go. If we do not now clearly state that, as far as we are concerned, it cannot be within that 12 mile zone, and he has not looked at all the possibilities, we are actually saying to the Minister: go do it as it says. As far as costs are concerned, too, we think it is important to be absolutely clear what we are talking about here today. It just isn't right now. All the groups have rightly made comments on this. If that leads to the Minister saying that he is still maintaining the law at the moment, because there are so many unclear questions and there are still a number of investigations on the way, then we are happy to hear that in his reply. Then we can see how we deal with it. But that 12 mile zone is just there, because it must be clear to the inhabitants that we should do our best together. We really need to get this done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u63	An amendment to the law is digital. If the amendment is adopted, it cannot be accepted. If the amendment is not adopted, it is an option. If the CDA is going through with this amendment, you're actually making the choice right now. All these statements about the Minister having to talk and so on are not really worth anything anymore. Then it is already decided that we do not want it, without knowing whether we really do not want it. That's my problem. Then it is also true that the 12 mile limit is not necessarily the line of sight. So if you don't want it to get inside the line of vision, that 12-mile zone won't do you any good. That's arbitrary. So my question remains: is the CDA's point of principle now in the 12 mile zone or on the mission of the Minister to examine with the coastal provinces whether the proper cost-benefit balance is being made together with the residents? If that's it, you shouldn't table this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u64	Last year, during the legislative consultation on energy, we said that we do not want this within the 12 mile zone. We have been very clear about this. In the meantime, the Minister has not taken all these steps, so I do not have high expectations at this time. But perhaps the Minister will surprise us today. Then we will see that and then we will have a very clear stick behind the door, as the SP indicated. I did not file it for nothing, because I would very much like the people in our coastal provinces to be listened to seriously. That is not the case at the moment. I find that careless. Over the 12 mile zone there is even a great deal of resistance among the Dutch coastal communities, as almost all groups have indicated, as with all political parties, except GroenLinks; I have to say honestly, because during the election campaign in North Holland, about every fraction of windmills at sea turned out to be close to the coast. We have said the same thing both here and in the province. In the answers to my written questions, the Minister indicated that a visualisation was made of the park that the Minister is looking for. Meanwhile, an information meeting for city council members, including for the municipality of Zandvoort, has been cancelled. Is this visualization so shocking? When will it be made public? We have tabled an amendment on this point. To point out that we are not only looking at renewable energy through very large projects but also through small ones, the CDA always brings out decentralised energy generation from the bottom up. Right now, there's the postcode rose scheme. That's actually a dragon of an arrangement. I do not know how many initiatives have already been adopted. We'd like to hear that from the Minister. We were supposed to be informed at the end of March, early April. Maybe the Minister can say something about that already. As far as we are concerned, energy cooperatives could also be encouraged through the SDE+ scheme. We would like to hear whether the Minister would like to think about this and what his current experience is with the postcode rose. How many projects have already been authorised? We will have to use large and small to achieve the objectives. We don't just make it with wind at sea. We also need land-based solar energy from small-scale bottom-up initiatives. Support has been mentioned very often today for a reason, and employment is also an important issue, as is innovation. The question is quite rightly where this innovation is, how much it costs and whether the Minister can make the costs clear today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u65	Mr. Chairman. This bill opens the locks to the billions of waste called wind energy at sea. No less than 18 billion euros of subsidy is transferred by this VVD minister to most foreign companies that come to ruin the view off our coast, from Zeeland to the head of North Holland. Beach guests will soon see their tax dollars evaporate instead of the setting, burning sun on the horizon. Definitely not a soothing thought for a nice day out. It is therefore logical that many coastal entrepreneurs are concerned about staying away from visitors, resulting in less income and job losses. Research carried out by a number of coastal communities shows that this can reach up to 6,000 jobs. When I asked the Minister a year ago in written questions about this investigation, he felt it was too early to draw such conclusions. What's the Minister's position on that? Does he share the conclusions of this investigation and what will he do with it? Not only in the tourism sector there is a risk of job losses, but also in other sectors such as fisheries and oil and gas extraction, as the report of the Central Planning Bureau shows. No less than EUR 5 billion are damaging the offshore windmill plans of this cabinet to our prosperity. Is the Minister prepared, before wind farms are realized, to check with the sector whether there are viable oil and gas resources? We would prefer gas to be extracted from the North Sea rather than from Groningen. Does the Minister agree with this? Can the Minister arrange that the oil and gas extraction sector can also object to preparatory decisions? That is not possible now. Windmills do not run on wind, but on subsidies; everyone knows that by now. However, on how much subsidy is not entirely clear, although I do appreciate the explanation given by the Minister in the note on the further report. The Minister will contract the wind turbine parks between 2015 and 2019 for amounts from €0,145 to €0,125 per kWh. Will the tender in 2015 be based on those high costs in 2015, the year of procurement, or on those lower costs in 2019, the year of delivery? At the same time, the Minister says that industry must achieve a cost reduction of at least 40%. With a starting amount of €0.15 per kWh, you should end up at €0.09 per kWh. But if the Minister procures all the wind turbine parks in the period 2015-2019 and assumes these costs, then not half of the promised reduction will be achieved. Can the Minister explain this? Is our conclusion that this 40% reduction in costs is not achieved at all with the current planning? Can the Minister also explain why the cost savings achieved by system operator TenneT have not yet been included in the cost table? Should the maximum subsidy amounts for 2015 to 2019 not be corrected for that €0,015 that TenneT realizes? And €0.01 per kWh may sound like little, but it is ultimately billions of euros. For example, TenneT's savings of €0.015 are already €3 billion. Also unclear is the large variation in subsidy billions that the minister is going to distribute for the wind turbines at sea. In response to written questions from the PVV on statements by Mr Nijpels that wind energy does not cost a subsidy, the Minister replied that the plans for wind at sea provide for a maximum of EUR 5.5 billion of subsidy. But in the last year and a half, the Minister always assumed a maximum of EUR 18 billion. In the note following last month's further report, the Minister is still talking about EUR 18 billion, but he is also talking about EUR 9 billion, and in Monday's letter we are talking about EUR 12 billion. Can the Minister explain how all these amounts relate to each other? Furthermore, it is strange that the Minister is already having TenneT make costs for a network at sea when the energy agreement is concluded, while there is still a need for alignment with the Chamber and a legislative amendment. The Minister defends this by pointing out the tight timetable for reaching the agreements in the energy agreement, but also a minister in this country should abide by the laws that are now in place, and TenneT is not yet the network manager at sea. So the Minister orders something that is at that time contrary to the law. That calls for an explanation! We also wonder whether this way of acting will not lead to legal problems. After all, the parties affected will appeal. Another concern is the exception made for wind energy at sea for the Dutch Flora and fauna law. As a result, it no longer matters whether there is intent or not to crush birds, the crushing of bats and the numbing of porpoises and seals. When it comes to wind turbines at sea, everything is allowed. Why does the Minister create this exception only for wind at sea? Why does the Minister not treat all activities, including oil and gas extraction, equally? Both, according to this cabinet, are of equal national importance. The PVV feels differently, because oil and gas extraction provide prosperity and jobs and wind energy costs us prosperity and jobs. As far as PVV is concerned, the same rules should apply to all activities at sea. Is the Minister willing to change this? In conclusion, I conclude that the PVV sees nothing in this bill. It's an attack on our prosperity and grabs the citizen in his wallet. It is therefore not surprising that the Central Planning Bureau agrees with the PVV. Moreover, there is no environmental gain. Instead of throwing money over the bar, the Minister needs to work on an energy supply that is about affordability and reliability, making the most of the innovations we can expect in the coming years. The Minister has to work on an energy supply that makes energy cheaper rather than more expensive. With this law, the Minister clearly goes for short-term political outcome, at the expense of the long-term public interest. Thanks to this bill, hardworking entrepreneurs in coastal towns see their income evaporate on the horizon. The PVV says again: stop wasting billions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u66	Where the tree stick is such a beautiful bird, the windmill-Klever is a bit of an angry bird. I don't get it. Mrs Klever says that the bill is bad for all kinds of places where damage is being done. In Den Helder and the entire area around Rotterdam and Dordrecht, the PVV was the largest party last week, and in Vlissingen the PVV became the third party. However, these are all cities and areas where there is already an enormous amount of employment in the windmill industry and where there will be more. So is Mrs. Klever scaring away her own constituents now? How am I supposed to see this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u67	I think that's a bit of a weird question. With the support of the Socialist Party, this cabinet spends billions of euros on uneconomic windmill technology, which does not yield any results. The Central Planning Office has calculated that this technology will destroy even EUR 5 billion in prosperity. She's getting nothing, not even an environmental gain. This cabinet is throwing billions of euros over the bar and it's getting nothing. The PVV says stop doing that and wait for the innovation. The innovation in the world is going very fast. For example, scientists expect solar energy to be economically viable by 2020, with prices comparable to current fossil energy prices. Why should we invest in outdated technology now when developments are moving at a rapid rate? My argument, Mr Smaling, should also be addressed as a scientist.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u68	I share that innovation issue. There are a lot of developments in renewable energy technology. That's right. But of course you can't wait endlessly. I am sorry that the PVV is looking so unilaterally at this issue. There are benefits. Look at a program like Space for the River. We'll put 20 billion in that. That may not be necessary at all, because we are assuming a flow rate at Lobith of 18 billion cubic meters per second, and that is ridicul. Then you need dikes in Cologne so you can't even see the Cologne Cathedral. However, I do not hear the PVV about that, while you can still get 10 billion off that budget and then you are still safe downstairs. It is so cherrypicking what the PVV does at this point, while there really are possibilities to make a success of this, if only it gets volume. Or are we not getting closer to each other on this point, Mrs Klever? I regret that in a personal sense, but in a political sense I fear the worst. I hope that we can get a little closer to each other through a little debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u69	We are having a debate on the wind energy at sea Act. Mr Smaling is now raising a number of issues. Well, I can also come up with a number of things that I do not agree with, for example the billions that go to the EU or the billions for development cooperation. All of this is fine with the SP, but neither do we. However, that is not what this debate is about. In this debate we are talking about the energy supply of the Netherlands. And I note that this cabinet, with the support of the entire Chamber, including the SP, makes energy priceless for ordinary people. Scientists have calculated that families will soon pay €500 extra a year for all these plans. I really do not understand why the SP can agree to this. The SP, which always stands up for the people with a small stock exchange, simply agrees with energy bills that are hundreds of euros higher. I was just expecting the SP to come our way and shoot down these bullshit plans with us that don't pay off. But unfortunately...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u70	I think Mrs Klever has very high expectations of a huge bubble of oil and gas that is still under the North Sea. Otherwise, I would like to ask her why she is so keen on putting Putin, ISIS and Saudi Arabia's bank account instead of investing in jobs in the Netherlands or Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u71	Well, that's another statement... This is bullshit! Everywhere in the world you can buy oil and gas, really not just from Putin or the oil sheiks. There is oil in the world for 178 years, according to the World Energy Outlook, for 233 years of gas and for 30 centuries of coal, really not just with Mr Putin, for whom D66 is apparently so afraid. I call Canada, Venezuela, Angola, Norway and so on. You can buy gas anywhere! It's bullshit that we'd be baconing Putin or oilsheiks. That's D66 scary I'm gonna distance myself from.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u72	The fact remains that the European Union as a whole spends more than 1 billion a year on imports of fossil fuels. So every year we drive 1 billion off this continent. We can also invest that billion in this continent, so that it creates jobs here instead of just making bank accounts elsewhere. If Mrs Klever prefers to get her oil from Angola and likes it better than ISIS, I'd like to leave it with her. The fact remains that we are exporting prosperity, while my group opts more for investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u73	When D66 talks about "we," it is about Europe, but when I talk about "we," I talk about the Netherlands. We are also here in the Dutch Parliament. The fact is that we in the Netherlands are self-sufficient in our gas needs. We do not depend at all on Putin. In fact, we export gas. So I'd say don't fall for D66's scaremongering, because it's all a big exaggeration. D66 does not want to import more oil and gas, but in the Botlek there are all kinds of companies that need oil and gas for their production process. So D66 actually wants to say to these companies: "That's not allowed anymore. Close your doors; get rid of it! We do not want to import oil and gas." I think that's another bad policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u74	I hear the PVV regularly worrying about the cost of energy for low-income people. GroenLinks is in favour of cheaper cleaning and making dirt more expensive. When I hear Mrs Klever like that, she really wants to help the whole of the Netherlands get more expensive energy. We have increased together in the debate on gas in Groningen. We want the gas tap to shut down and there will be more LNG, but LNG is an incredibly much more expensive. What does the PVV want? Does it want to ensure that not only the current generation of low-income people, but also the future generation gets lower energy costs? Then energy efficiency, insulation and more own energy are the only solution. Or does Mrs Klever think it should cost a little, as long as it is not clean energy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u75	First of all, electricity from LNG is still much cheaper than electricity from windmills, but that aside. Mrs. Van Tongeren asks what the PVV wants. The PVV wants to stop the billions wasted that the energy agreement brings with it. We are self-sufficient in the Netherlands in the field of electricity. We still have gas until 2030. If we stop exporting our gas, we will be self-sufficient much longer. Then we can pump up more slowly in Groningen and it is a lot safer for the Groningers. In the meantime, technological development has not stopped. I told Mr Smaling that almost all scientists agree that by 2020, in five years' time, solar energy can simply compete and be economically profitable. There are also developments in thorium and in the field of fusion. The world doesn't stand still. Instead of investing in outdated technology, the PVV wants to focus on new technology. We want to focus on technology of the future instead of technology of the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u76	I am pleasantly surprised to hear that we are both very much in favour of a rapid roll-out of more solar energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u77	Without a grant!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u78	We can then find each other in that, but I would like to make sure that electricity from lng is cheaper. You get it first by boat from another country, for which you make it liquid, then you turn it back here and then you turn it into electricity. Can Mrs Klever tell me why this would be cheaper than wind energy? Because I don't know those sums.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u79	LNG is about 40% more expensive than gas. Electricity from a gas plant costs €0.04 to €0.05. If you add 40%, you will be at about €0.06. As regards wind turbines at sea, we know from the table in Minister Kamp's letter that he is going to tender for €0,145. That's still twice as expensive as power out of LNG.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u80	The PVV is concerned about the wallet of the Dutch. The Christian Union wants to pay close attention to this. That is why we have always said that the coal plants operating in our country are going to have more capacity going on in the near future and that they should be fair in their costs: not only the health damage, but also, for example, the indirect costs. We need to increase our dikes due to climate change, which is caused by CO emissions. A lot of indirect costs that people have to pay through taxes and through the GP's account are not coming back now. I would like a response from the PVV Group to the fact that no fair comparison is being made between coal and renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u81	Mrs Dik-Faber doesn't think it's fair because she disagrees. The Central Planning Office, the government's main advisory body, has simply calculated that the plans for offshore wind turbines generate a loss of 5 billion euros for society. It costs EUR 5 billion more than it yields. Mrs Dik-Faber does not like it, but if she thinks she knows better than the Central Planning Office, I find that rather arrogant. I would also like to say a few words about climate change. The Netherlands does 0.5% of global CO emissions. It is, of course, an illusion that we can change the climate with a few wind turbines at sea. That's also some kind of delusion of grandeur. We're only doing 0.5%. We are not even a drop in the ocean yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u82	I hear a lot of big words from the PVV Group, but no answer to my question. There are many social indirect costs due to the presence of coal plants in our country and the fact that we will soon be building more coal plants. We have just talked about the fact that charges for connection costs have to be paid for wind at sea, but not for coal-fired power stations. I can outline all kinds of situations where there is an uneven playing field between coal power stations and wind at sea. My question remains whether we should not look honestly at the costs of coal power stations and of wind at sea and their revenues, including in terms of innovation and employment. Then we will certainly come to different conclusions than the PVV Group has outlined here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u83	I fully agree with Mrs Faber that there is an uneven playing field between coal power stations and wind at sea. Coal-fired power stations cost taxpayers nothing and windmills at sea cost taxpayers EUR 18 billion. That is indeed a hugely uneven playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u84	It's Mrs. Fat, by the way. Mrs Van Veldhoven has a small correction for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u85	I just said that we import 1 billion a year, but of course it's over 1 billion a day. The European Union imports between 400 billion and 500 billion fossil fuels per year. It seemed important to me to correct that for the Acts, since it gives an even better picture of the scale of the problem here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u86	That is not only for energy supply, but also as a raw material for large companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u87	Before I give the floor to Mr Vos, as chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, I have to say that I think it wise that we in Parliament should not joke about each other's names. It's been a while, but I think it's important to mark it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u88	Mr. Chairman. Today is one of those days when you, as a Member of Parliament, are happy and proud to be able to stand here, because you know that you can really mean something in this Parliament and that you can change things. Today is the day when we will provide millions of Dutch families with renewable energy through an important law. That's something very special. With that, we will take this country a different path. I must therefore say that I am sorry that on such a day the news is dominated by a newly appointed colleague, Mr O'Donnell, who is not present at the debate; apparently that was not worthwhile because he is robbing a seat and taking one of the 150 seats here, while he is not democratically elected. Today is the day we talk about the wind energy at sea. It will not be surprising that the Labour Party is strongly in favour of that law. In the coalition agreement, we announced major plans to realise wind at sea. In the energy agreement, these agreements have been consolidated and nearly 50 civil society organisations and companies have made agreements to realise these windmills at sea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u89	I had some doubts, but I think I should make a comment about the start of Mr Vos's contribution. Everyone in this room has been elected. After that, history took its course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u90	Mr Vos, that is a point of order. You don't have to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u91	Mr. Chairman. As far as my group is concerned, the way in which the cabinet has carried out the energy agreement deserves great appreciation. It's quite something we do here. It's a huge infrastructure project. If, in ten years' time, we sail along all those windmills at sea, almost no one is really affected, as we do suffer from coal-fired power stations and earthquakes in Groningen or windmills that were placed on several hundred meters of our houses and see what we have realized, then I think we can mark a very special moment. It is not often that we, as a country, have carried out such large infrastructure projects. For that, I think you should return to the work for the Delta Works in the mouth of the Oosterschelde. My group therefore expresses its appreciation of the cabinet. We hope that the law can enter into force on 1 July 2015, so that the first tender can take place already this autumn. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. It is clear that the Labour Party Group will not support proposals from political groups which will lead to further delays in this project. We have to act as a matter of urgency on this matter. The law provides an integral framework for the designation of a wind farm, linking the granting of permits and grants. That's an improvement. The bill also introduces the Lot Decree, in which the Minister of EZ and the Minister of I and M indicate at what location and under what conditions a wind farm at sea can be realized. That's also an improvement. There will also be one network operator, and that is the high voltage manager TenneT. My group supports these proposals and the budget allocated to TenneT for this purpose, the so-called preparatory costs. My group also supports the way in which the Minister has implemented the handling of the existing permits. I think it is a good thing that this point has been removed. That was something that my group too has been somewhat upset. As far as we're concerned, that dirt has now been disposed of. My group is aware of the high cost of this project. ECN estimates amount to around €9 billion. The Minister now speaks of EUR 12 billion. Previously, we talked about EUR 18 billion. Those are high costs. It is of course nice that we can achieve a 40% discount on the costs by setting it up so large scale. However, I think it can be even smarter and cheaper. My group believes that the way in which we finance it now, in particular, favours investors, and banks, which operate in the financial market and borrow it for these big projects, and investors, who can invest their own assets on the very gold-plated, government-protected way of working. I wonder whether we would not be better able to finance this project from the government's own funds, through state participation, through a state bank, or simply by direct participation. No one can borrow and lend cheaper than the State itself. The sum is pretty simple. We are currently borrowing below 1%, while we are providing some 15% of debt on these projects, and 7%, 8% of equity; that is a little dependent on the approach chosen. We can give the difference back to citizens in the form of burden relief, or we can use it to achieve even more sustainable energy. After all, we are far from there. A number of groups also indicated this. You can save billions on this project, we think. With these 40% savings, the Minister has taken a very good path, but it can be done a little faster and better. I ask him to pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u92	Can Mr Vos justify his remark that this is going to save billions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u93	If, as is happening now, you invest in a windmill project by subsidising the so-called uneconomic top of wind energy at sea, you actually subsidise a private project. The investors who invest money on that must earn money from it. Soon it will be about 8% to 10%. Furthermore, you have to deal with debt, because the money has to be "livered" and then there is extra debt. That's another 10% to 15%. These are all costs that do not have to be incurred if the government itself participates. The government is currently borrowing money on the capital market at around 1.5% interest rates. Such a project involves 9 to, according to the broadest estimate, 18 billion. If you take the funding costs off, you'll soon be on a cut of 2 to 3 billion. I would like the Minister to take a good look at this. I believe that the Prime Minister has promised this at an earlier stage. We can handle the public money smarter. We'd better spend that money. There's something else. At the moment, mostly rich people and banks earn wind energy at sea, but all citizens in the Netherlands pay the same. I'm with the Labour Party. If burdens and lusts can be distributed more fairly, then I am at the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u94	Smarter dealing with our taxpayers' money: everyone can only be interested in it. It seems to me, however, that the Minister should pass on this little plan once again. Of course, the government is not going to carry it out on its own, so it has to take advantage of companies to do so, and those companies have to make a profit. Those billions with which the Labour Party now counts so quickly, I would therefore like to see it properly calculated. I don't think we should throw the whole thing over on the basis of this calculation on the back of a cigar box. Wouldn't it also result in a huge delay? Is Mr Vos prepared to catch up on that delay?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u95	It can just be within the current system. Take, for example, the FMO, a bank in which the government sits for 51%. That bank also invests in equity. EBN invests in fossil energy projects and gets a return from them. EBN is a 100% public participation. EBN could also invest in renewable energy. England, the United Kingdom has a green bank. I tabled a motion on this subject with Mrs Van Veldhoven's colleague: such a green bank would also be a very nice way for the Netherlands to finance this type of project. In Italy recently an economist, Mazzucato, wrote a wonderful story about how the entrepreneurial state, the enterprising state, can operate and make money back. She also points to a number of projects in the United States, but you can also take ASML in the Netherlands, for example. ASML is a very successful company. It produces 80% of chips on the world market. All rulers and economics spokesmen pass through. The Dutch government has invested a lot in this company. In the start-up phase, in the early 1990s, more than half of all investments came from the government. We are now reaping the benefits of this as a society. If we do this in a smarter way with the windmills, we will eventually get more money in our own pocket. That's what the Italian economist says. This means reducing the burden on citizens. That is an important point for the VVD, but Mrs Van Veldhoven, too, sometimes has a hand in emphasising it at her liberal moments. Eventually there will be a fair distribution of burdens and appetites, and so the Social Democrats are happy again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u96	Mr Vos was a little surprised at my contribution to this debate, in which I tried to outline the framework within which my group has to make its deliberations: not doing enough for the climate and not doing enough to really achieve energy saving, but by pushing aside the nature test to place windmills in the North Sea, while we know that it is not very good either. We find that difficult. So I wonder what the Labour Party would say if the government wanted to abandon the Natura 2000 sites, which Germany considers important, and did not follow the International OSPAR Convention to protect the sea better. Does the Labour Party look at the cabinet as a total? The need for green energy is also seen by the Party for Animals, but do we not want to encourage the Cabinet to make something more of nature conservation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u97	The Party for Animals considers the Labour Party to be sidelined when it comes to nature conservation. We have been able to work successfully in this area at several times in recent years. That will be the case in the future. In my view, wind at sea at the distance now planned from the coast is a very good way to generate renewable energy. Of course, windmills also have disadvantages, but we have to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u98	I understand that reasoning, because climate change is not going to do the sea any good either. The question is whether the Labour Party is in agreement with Mrs van Veldhoven's amendment, which I am allowed to sign, which states that the nature test should not be dropped, not standard. Does the Labour Party call the Cabinet to order if it does not say that it is worth making efforts to protect and restore nature in the North Sea? With these windmills we create an extra natural effect on the North Sea, which can't have that much anyway. It is therefore a specific matter of the motions before us which call for the Borkumse Stones to be designated as a protected area and for the international OSPAR Convention, which we have signed. Can we count on the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u99	When it comes to compliance with international conventions, the Animal Party will of course find the Labour Party on its side. I will assess the amendments tabled. Mrs Ouwehand will notice if we vote against it. If we vote for it, so will she.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u100	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u101	In the past, there has been speculation on major projects for wind at sea. We have the following questions. How does the Minister deal with the risk of speculative bids? How can it be prevented that parks are not realized or that there are major delays due to insufficient financial or technical opportunities for a participating party? Should a bank guarantee of a certain size be required before a party participates in a tender? My group does not exclude near-shore wind energy. Especially at a distance of 10 nautical miles, as planned, the inhabitants of the coastal towns in comparison with some of the inhabitants of the provinces of Drenthe and Friesland seem to be well off. We do, however, share the concerns rightly expressed and support the request made earlier by the VVD for research into IJmuiden Ver on the important condition that there is no delay. We also very much like to see the employment created by this in Vlissingen, IJmuiden, Den Helder, Rotterdam and the Eemshaven, to which my colleague from the SP referred, actually arrives in the Netherlands and not in other countries. Some countries are very keen to attract the employment of these projects. I would say that we are first helping our own jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u102	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Bosman, I would like to say before the Acts that the Committee on the Examination of the Letters of Faith of all Members of the House of Representatives has established that they have been rightly admitted to this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u103	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the Law on wind energy at sea, a small but important law. Large sections often take place in many steps, with each individual step having to be taken to achieve the ultimate goal. The same goes for this law. This Act establishes a new system for the issue of licences for the operation of wind farms at sea. That's not the sexiest subject, but it has to be done with all due care. This law is a step in the implementation of all agreements under the Energy Agreement. My group, of course, wants to keep these agreements. The Energy Agreement agreed to roll out winds at sea according to a standardised approach if it proves more efficient. That is the case now. We therefore leave the old system in which each project had its own approach. From now on, we choose to standardise and thus exploit the economies of scale and the financial benefits it brings. So we get a number of parks of equal size that are plannedly built. With this preparation TenneT can work on the basis of this law. Thus, this law contributes to the agreed cost reduction of 40%. That cost reduction is a tough deal. If it is not achieved, I think the risk lies with the sector. But I'd like to hear that from the Minister. In order to allow for this standardised approach, this law introduces the so-called Lot Decision. This law does not deal with the specific locations of the offshore wind farms, but allows the Ministers of Economic Affairs and I and M to decide on a specific location later. Can the Minister confirm that this law does not pre-sort at specific locations, but leaves all options open within the currently designated lots for windmills? There is another point I would like to highlight. Unforeseen circumstances could result in the network being delivered too late at sea for a wind farm to be connected. In that case, an investor will suffer damage. If a wind farm is ready but it cannot supply its power because there is no net yet, there are no returns but costs. In the note following the report, the Minister writes that an appropriate compensation mechanism is being worked on for the wind operator concerned should this circumstance occur. I would like to know from the Minister how this is going, who he thinks should pay for the costs if a park is not connected in time and how he prevents such a situation from arising. The final location choices for the wind farms to be built will of course be followed critically by the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u104	Thank you. This brings to an end the first term of office. I suggest that we combine the suspension that the Minister needs to prepare for his answer with an early dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u105	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for considering this bill in plenary. This bill is part of a larger package. I shall go into this in a moment. We would like the legislative proposal to pass the First Chamber on 1 July, because in that case we can achieve the ambition of 14% of renewable energy in 2020 and 16% of renewable energy in 2013. The timetable for this is tight. The ambition of that 14% and 16% is high. A great deal has to be done to achieve this ambition, but if we manage to ensure that the law can be dealt with in good time by the First Chamber and the law can be adopted on 1 July, we have taken an important step and we can also try to achieve the other steps that still need to be taken in good time. It is perhaps good to see the extent of the operation we are engaged in. We need to move from fossil energy to renewable energy. We did not make that transition ourselves; we agreed on it at international level. The European Union has laid down directives for this purpose, which are subsequently laid down in our laws and which have also been translated into election programmes. A coalition agreement and an energy agreement were then agreed. That way it's all recorded. The transition from fossil energy to renewable energy requires a new infrastructure. At present, fossil energy in the form of electricity is produced by gas plants, a nuclear power plant and coal plants. If we want to reduce and phase it out, something else must replace it. That alternative will have to be invested. That'll make sense to everyone. A completely new infrastructure will have to be built, but it will cost money. However, we also get a lot in return for that. Because of what we are now achieving in the sea wind, we can produce an additional amount of electricity of 3,500 MW, in addition to the 1,000 MW already in place or in preparation. If all of this runs in the year 2023, we have a total of about 4,500 MW available. This will enable us to meet the energy needs of five out of seven and a half million households in the Netherlands. For five million out of the seven and a half million households in the Netherlands, the electricity can soon be supplied by the wind energy that we now have. 15% of the total electricity consumption in the Netherlands, including everything consumed by governments, offices and industry, large and small, will be delivered in this way in the year 2023. This is a very large operation, which will also have to be carried out very much in the procedural field. There are a number of procedures currently under way and some will still have to be started and completed. There's all kinds of intricacies attached to that. Participation will have to be organized, to which action will have to be taken and to which appeal procedures exist. It has all been linked in a timeline by which, if we stick to that and do not organise a delay, we will be able to realise our ambitions for 2012 and the year 2023. We are talking about very large amounts of money. It was last communicated to the Chamber that the implementation of the plans would cost up to 18 billion. Originally, the amount of wind energy at sea that we want to achieve would cost 30 billion, but we have said that 40% should be saved in the long term. If you subtract that, you're at 18 billion. Then we went to look at the 18 billion and said that this is the maximum amount. I told the Chamber before that I estimated the minimum at 9 billion. So I'm guessing it's going to cost somewhere between 9 and 18 billion. In the National Energy Exploratory, we have made further calculations. Taking into account the current circumstances, i.e. the prices of gas and electricity and the prices for achieving wind at sea, we have concluded that we need to estimate the costs at present at EUR 12 billion. That amount will be spent in the period 2019-2038. So, according to our estimate today, in the period beginning in 2019 and running until 2038, a total of EUR 12 billion will be needed. However, we have to calculate this every time, because prices for electricity and gas and for what can be achieved at sea have to be re-assessed on the basis of the facts. That sum can then lead to another outcome. On the basis of the current data, we can see that the amount must be 12 billion. It is a major operation to produce 3,500 MW of additional capacity of electricity at sea. In order to do such an operation, it is necessary to control it very tightly. It cannot therefore be the case that all kinds of wind farms of different sizes are being realized throughout the North Sea, because they all need to be connected separately to the country. In that case, separate procedures and investigations must be carried out each time. That way I will not get out of there, especially not before the year 2020 or 2023. I have therefore looked at how I can get out of it and how I can get the costs as low as possible. I counted on that. We've all been counting on it for a long time, and we've also made a plan for it. The government has to take the lead itself. I'll have the formal direction. Moreover, we must carry out the necessary investigations for the various locations themselves and not leave them to the operators of the wind farms. For the locations we choose, we do the investigations ourselves. Furthermore, we choose the locations ourselves, so that we can keep the costs as low as possible, including the connection to the country. After all, that is a high cost. We are going to standardise this as much as possible and also ensure that maintenance is standardized as much as possible. In addition, we are putting these parks as close as is justified to the country in order to reduce costs considerably. We have calculated that giving an extra 2 miles alone, so not 12 miles from the coast, but 10 miles from the coast for the nearest windmill, is worth a difference of EUR 1.2 billion. Furthermore, we have looked at how the sea ends there. We have looked at the claims for fishing, sand extraction, Defence and oil and gas extraction in the areas. If you look at them all, where can you create locations in a responsible way? Where is that technically possible? Where is it reasonable in terms of the cost weighting you have to make? In the end, we have chosen three locations. In our design, at Borssele, 700 MW will be realized twice, off the South Holland coast also twice 700 MW and off the North Holland coast 700 MW once. Each 700 MW unit is divided into two units, i.e. two 350 MW lots. That is going to go out in the tenders, so that they can be registered. Based on the many, frequent and ongoing contacts with the field, we have opted for this procedure design, distribution and standardisation. This has been achieved in close consultation with all concerned, in particular with all those who will soon be involved in the construction and financing of the parks, and with all those who have to deal with this in other ways. There has been a lot of consultation and there will be a lot of consultation. I have already indicated that there are still a lot of procedures in place. All these procedures have their own participation, communication and opportunities to appeal. That's all necessary for a project as big as we're working on. We have already sent a lot of information to the Chamber about the EUR 3 billion that can be saved by using TenneT. We sent reports and letters to the Chamber. I think that information is clear by now. Here's how it's gonna work. I'm trying to summarize it very briefly. If there were no cost reduction, what would be the cost per kWh of electricity produced? That's what we've been looking at. That would be €0.15. Suppose you make the connection to the country as cheap as possible, that you engage one party with a lot of expertise, namely TenneT, that you standardize it so that TenneT can handle it well, and that you also do it wisely in terms of location choice. So let's say you set it all up optimally. What can it do to save on the €0.15 per kWh that is the starting point? That was calculated by TenneT. It concluded that it is €0.015 per kWh. Now multiply that €0,015 by the number of MW realized at sea, 3,500. Then look at the number of hours of full load that can be turned, so the time that electricity can be produced. And then apply it over the entire period that the windmills are spinning. Then you come up with a total of €0.015, which means that you will be able to save €3 billion over the entire period that the windmills will run. According to TenneT, these 3 billion and €0.015 are at the bottom of a bandwidth. We submitted that calculation to DNG VL, i.e. the former KEMA, and to ECN. They have started to calculate and have said: over that period, €0.015 per kWh, or EUR 3 billion, is indeed the saving. That is the summary I can give of all the information that has been sent to the Chamber. It is not information that is disputed. Instead of working with more scattered parks, we standardize now. With three locations relatively close to the coast and by making optimal use of TenneT's knowledge and know-how, you get to this amount. It is a proportional contribution to the total savings of 40% that should ultimately be achieved. This saving has to be partly achieved on the connection and partly on the wind farms themselves. The part that needs to be realized on the connection is therewith for each other. Now the rest has to be realized. Exactly how this is to be done is still under discussion with all those involved. We shall come to a conclusion in that regard. In the end, it should lead to the 40% being realised, not only through the contribution of TenneT but also through the contribution of wind farm operators. All in all, that's going to have to be 40%. To ensure this, we have set it down in the amounts we are prepared to pay per kWh. These amounts must be realised over a period of ten years, as stated in the Energy Agreement. It starts with €0.005 which is collected from that €0.15. This is continued until you end up at €0.009. Then you realized that 40%. From that moment on, the 40% will therefore be fully applicable to the follow-up. Because it is an ascending whole, it will be half of it in the period up to 2023 that we are talking about now. We can realize that already during this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u106	How does the Minister see the phrase in the energy agreement that the cost reduction is not achieved by shifting network costs through socialisation, but by real innovation and productivity gains in the construction and construction of wind farms? The Minister now says that the cost reduction achieved on the network is taken into account, while the energy agreement agreed that it would not be included. Why the change?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u107	The original plan was that wind farms would be realized and that the SDE+ would apply to them, including the connection to the land. Later on, we decided that we would achieve 40% reduction on the whole. One part of the whole is the connection to the land. You can do that connection in a better way. Originally, it was the idea to build the large transformer stations on land. Now the plan is to do it in the sea. We are going to realize some of those large transformer stations at sea. Over a fairly short distance we connect these windmills with those transformer stations and then it is brought to the country via combined cables, giving you much less cuts of the coastal and dune area. Compared to the original design, the new design has a new outcome. If you can achieve a certain saving on a part of the total of the wind farms, including the connections, you have to make the remaining savings on the rest of the whole. And that's exactly what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u108	I'm reading it a little differently. It says here that it is "all cost items to connect to a power outlet." Now we conclude that we are putting that outlet at sea, but of course the agreement has not changed. They don't have to make those costs from the power outlet to land anymore. That means that they will not be able to achieve this reduction in costs. We are right to choose a smarter decor with each other. We all benefit from that. Then why does that count in one go for the 40%, when the deal was always: to the socket?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u109	There's no further misunderstanding about this. We have a network in our country where producers are connected, with which consumers are connected, with which customers are connected. And now we're going to do something extra: we're going to produce wind energy at sea. We've been looking at how much that's gonna cost. We have made these calculations, and then we have said that 40% must be taken off. Part of what we all have to achieve at sea in connection with the production of the windmills is the connection with the land and the transformer stations. We have set a proportionate proportion of the cost of the network at 3 billion. The remaining 40% must be realised by those who build the wind farms. I think this is a logical idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u110	I have a question about that 40% cost reduction. That's in ten years. Every year a very small piece goes off. This €0.15 will be reduced to €0.09. All wind farms of the energy agreement will be tendered between 2015 and 2019. The lowest price tendered has a cost figure of €0,125. Compared to this €0.15, this is only 17% cost reduction. Is it true that all those wind farms are being tendered without the 40% cost reduction being achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u111	It has never been the idea that you can achieve that cost reduction of 40% from day one. This cost reduction must be achieved through innovation. Things still have to be invented and organized to get this done. We cannot wait until it is 40% realized. That is why the Energy Agreement agreed to set that 40% as an objective. It must be achieved over a period of 10 years. In the period between now and 2023 we are going to realize part of it. Eventually, it comes to that 40%. We won't be done with wind at sea by 2023. We will then have 16% of renewable energy, while we will have to reach the European target of 30% by 2030. For ourselves, we have said 50% that there should be full sustainability in the international context. This means that we will have to go even further. This 40% may then apply entirely to the period after 2023. Until that ten-year period is over, we can achieve some of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u112	I understand that this cost reduction is not achieved in one go and why it is gradually spread over ten years; every year €0.005 per kWh goes down. The 3.540 MW of wind farms from the energy agreement will be realized in the first few years and this means that no wind farm in the energy agreement will be achieved at that cost reduction of 40%.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u113	That's right. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u114	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u115	The Minister is clear: that 40% reduction of all costs is in that €0.15. We're talking about infra and turbines. This raises the question of how it is divided, a question that has a relationship with the question asked by my colleague from D66 about the points a through i in the green deal for innovation. Can the Minister clarify the distribution of costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u116	I do not know what Mrs Mulder is referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u117	Mrs. Mulder, perhaps you could clarify that? If you do that, it doesn't count as an interruption!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u118	In the green deal is the list of appointments that D66's colleague already read. This list is: a. new foundation techniques that can reduce the amount of steel and a simple installation; b. new installation techniques that allow mooring and construction of wind farms at sea to take place faster, safer, less noise and more frequently; c. more efficient wind turbine techniques; d. better vessels and personnel for building the parks; e. improving turbine availability through a smart maintenance strategy and improved turbine access techniques; f. standardising contracts between market participants; g. innovation in electrical connection technologies; h. environmental innovation, licensing and financing; i. innovation in training and information. These points from the green deal actually apply to this. I am trying to make a cost allocation for myself to the different innovations that are described here. I'm doing the same thing, because it gives the Chamber a grip on her search for what that reduction is. What part is done by TenneT and what part is done by the builders of the wind farms? What is the difference compared to the possibility that the park builders would do it themselves and so it is not done by TenneT? That is where the savings of 40% come from. I'm looking for that clarity tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u119	Of course, I do not know exactly how the reduction to be achieved by wind farm operators will be distributed. That will have to be demonstrated in the coming years. I know that the sector itself has said that it is 40% possible. They will have to realize this 40% in all kinds of ways. It may be done a little more by one and a little less by the other, because I don't care if that 40% is realized in its entirety. To ensure this, we go down every year for ten years with €0.005 per kWh. In this way we guarantee that the wind farms will not be realised if they do not do what they have promised. Let us not make each other more difficult than necessary about the precise distribution of that 40%. We are now talking about the need for something new to be realized. New infrastructure needs to be built at sea to ensure that the windmills can run and that the electricity generated can be connected to the land grid. This means that we have to create windmills there and then connect them to the country. For the years to come, we have taken on board a very large project by building these windmills with these connections, while at the same time achieving a 40% reduction. We have established that TenneT is able to achieve that reduction if we allow TenneT to provide the connections between the windmills and the country. We think TenneT can do that, given its expertise, its scale, its funding possibilities and its ability to save on maintenance. TenneT is able to make a significant contribution, namely a contribution of €0.015 per kWh after ten years. In total, this amounts to 3 billion. That is the contribution that can be made for the connection. What's left is the rest. This concerns the exact amount to be achieved and the rate at which it is to be achieved. We are going to talk to the sector about how to refine this. What we're doing makes perfect sense. Of the whole we bring together one piece by using TenneT. That is what we are helping the sector with. The rest can realize the sector itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u120	Mrs. Mulder, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u121	What is the total amount that TenneT needs to enable wind roll-out at sea? There has been talk of 10% in relation to the 3 billion. That would mean an investment of 30 billion. That sounds like quite a lot to me. The Minister may be able to make a statement on this today. Suppose the amount required is around EUR 3 billion, does the Minister want to finance this amount through the SDE+?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u122	The direct investment that TenneT currently needs to make in order to make its technical contribution is in the order of EUR 3 billion. The direct investment that others would have to pay if they had to do the same is in the order of 2.3 billion. But there's no big profit in that. That profit is that, once it has been realized, it will save at least EUR 3 billion for everything that needs to be done throughout the period it is in operation. We then released a second opinion. The institutes I have just mentioned have been calculating them. They found that the amount of 3 billion, converted into €0.015 per kWh, is a reasonable estimate. The rest must then be done by the others. This is now being discussed with the others. If they put this together, that's good. If they do not achieve it, there will be no good outcome for the tender. Mrs Mulder asked how it would be financed. If we let the TenneT do it, it will be financed through the electricity bill that people will have to pay for the direct costs of electricity. If we let the windmill operators do it, it will be financed through the SDE+. Then it will also be charged to those who pay the electricity bill, but in the form of a storage. That storage has a different distribution than if only the naked electricity bill is looked at. There is therefore a certain shift in the way costs are distributed. It's not my intention to change anything in the cost distribution. Mr Bosman also spoke about this. I am now going to see if we can do it in such a way that we can subsidise TenneT in the costs that the company incurs from the SDE+. If we do so, the total cost will eventually be charged via the SDE+. That was also our original intent. Despite the new system we choose, whereby we let TenneT do it and let TenneT pass it on through the electricity tariffs, we can still bring it back to its original design by subsidising it from the SDE+.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u123	The Minister and I both want wind at sea fast. The Minister accepts a delay because it would lead to a significant reduction in costs. The Chamber has been trying to clarify that for a long time. As far as I'm concerned, that's not going to work. Tonight, the Minister says that it saves €0.015 per kWh whether TenneT is doing it or whether a windmill producer is doing it himself. Now we already have some parks at sea. Ecofys has done a study and made a calculation of what it costs in the current parks. Ecofys and the sector say it now costs €0.016 to €0.018 to connect the park. The Minister will save €0.015. Then we leave that it costs €0.005 to €0.003 per kWh. Of course, that will never be possible, because that is not the case with the sums for how much billion the Minister thinks he will save. Either the sector doesn't know how much it costs to join itself now, or the Minister has a "wonderful" how to say it neatly, a little enthusiastic and optimistic estimate of how much per kWh can be saved. I am very sorry that I continue to insist on this. I want that wind too, but I would also like to be clear about the costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u124	I do not understand why Mrs Van Tongeren says there is a delay. There's no delay at all. The design that I have now chosen, whereby 700 MW is spent each year in a tender, five years in a row, is even faster than what was originally intended. Originally it was intended to do 450 MW for the first year. We are now doing the first year, 2015, a tender for not that 450 MW but for 700 MW: twice 350 MW. So it's not a delay, it's a acceleration. As far as costs are concerned, the following. Of course, we can beat each other up here. Mrs Van Tongeren says 'Ecofys', I say 'ECN' and mention another institution. I say '€0,015', Mrs Van Tongeren says '€0,003' and then Mrs Mulder says that there is all uncertainty. But that's not how it works, of course. TenneT is not some messer who is just messing with numbers; TenneT is the organisation that owns and manages the entire network in the Netherlands. It is an organization whose shares are 100% owned by the government. That organization has been instructed by us to calculate this and has calculated this. On this basis, TenneT says that if we do this, we will achieve a saving of 3 billion over the entire period, compared to the original design. I have already indicated the relationship with this €0,015. That was then submitted by us for a second opinion to the two largest institutes on this point, which we always use for that purpose. They passed it on and confirmed it to me. Then we can pretend to be unclear here in the Chamber, but there is no doubt. Why should we allow ambiguity to exist? On the contrary, we have an interest in creating clarity. I'll do it on my own and I'd appreciate it if that came from your side too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u125	Finally, Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u126	Minister Cramer wanted 6,000 MW at sea at the time, but we hardly have anything, so there is a delay. The Chamber is not a mess; I am not the only spokesperson who cannot follow. I would very much like to follow it, because I would like wind at sea and I would like to think along with the Minister. I would therefore like to have an attempt at an answer to my question: what does the Minister think is going to cost per kWh for existing wind farms that have themselves connected to the grid? The figures I get from the sector show that it is between €0.016 and €0.018 per kWh. Then it is difficult to save €0.015 on that. My question does not therefore seem to me to be an unjustified question that I should not be asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u127	Look, Mrs Van Tongeren can beat me up with Minister Cramer and delay, but I know that I am in the cabinet on the basis of the coalition agreement and that I must realise the ambition of renewable energy from the coalition agreement. That ambition is crystal clear, and we have talked about it dozens of times. I am now going to achieve that ambition in terms of the wind at sea, at a rate that is even higher than that envisaged in the coalition agreement and the energy agreement. Then why should I have Secretary Cramer thrown at me? I don't understand. Mrs Van Tongeren also mentioned the €0.016. Of course, she can bring that up, but I say that we have to realize wind energy at sea and that windmills and a connection are included. That connection is a major part of the costs to be incurred. A company owned by the State, which is currently doing all the connections in the Netherlands, which is involved in off-shore connections in Germany and which has already been in the picture in the Netherlands, we have asked to see what it can do to do the connections as well and as cheaply as possible. A lot of feedback has come up on that. Partly on that basis I made the whole plan to do it in three locations with five standardized units of 700 MW in a particular place. This company has started to calculate and comes to the conclusion of 3 billion, calculated from €0.015. Then I give that to other companies for a second opinion. They confirm a few things. Then I think the Chamber can rely in confidence on that information that comes from TenneT, that comes from that second opinion and that comes from me. Mrs Van Tongeren proposes other calculations. I would say: draw up these calculations and submit them to us, but mentioning Ecofys and €0,016 and €0,003 is not enough to contradict what TenneT has calculated and what came out of the second opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u128	I also have a question about this €0.015 cost reduction that the Minister believes TenneT will achieve. The initial amount is €0.15. This saves €0.015 by designating TenneT as the one who builds the network. Then the amount tendered for in 2015 should amount to a maximum of €0.15 min €0.015, i.e. €0.135 instead of €0.145? Surely that should be passed on in the years after that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u129	A small thing: there will be no tender, but it will go through a tender. That's a different procedure. The whole that needs to be realized at sea has been looked at. We are now going to create wind farms, first at Borssele, then in Zuid-Holland and then in Noord-Holland. Then it goes on, because in addition to the ambitions for 2020 and 2023, we also have ambitions for 2030 and 2050. We are going to organise this whole thing as follows. We let TenneT realize those connections, we look at the original costs, namely €0,15, and we look at what contribution TenneT can make to the 40% reduction. That's the €0.015 TenneT can save. That way, you get the 3 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u130	But it'll be too expensive to write the tender, won't it? If this €0.015 is realized by TenneT, does it apply to all the parks that will be built from now on, including the parks that will be built from 2015 and built further? The table shows an amount of €0,145. Surely that has to be corrected because TenneT has been making savings for €0.015 since day one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u131	That's not because TenneT has to learn, too. TenneT will first set up the platform at Borssele, gain experience and then create further platforms. TenneT thus also builds up expertise and therefore has more opportunities to contribute to this. The starting point is that TenneT will do so as soon as possible. These costs will be passed on as soon as possible. We must then consult with the sector. What contribution will TenneT make and when will it become available? Depending on this, we need to look at what more the sector needs to do. The discussions on this balance between what TenneT is doing and what the sector is doing, including in time, are ongoing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u132	For our group, however, the question remains as to how much the €0.015 that TenneT will achieve is cost-effective. It is possible that the Minister will have this in hand and that he will be able to put it on paper before the second term of the Chamber. In any case, the lack of clarity on this matter will be removed. I'd really appreciate that. I have heard today from the Minister that the amount that TenneT needs to achieve the infrastructure at sea is around 2.3 billion. At least I thank him for that clarity. If we also hear about the €0.015 cost savings, who knows what good things can happen tonight!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u133	I do not quite understand what additional information Mrs Mulder needs. I have summarised and highlighted the information that is available. That's what I can do. If Mrs Mulder likes what I have said, then I will make an attempt to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u134	We look forward to seeing that. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u135	I suggest that the Minister continue with his speech. I believe that a great deal has been said in the meantime in the case of interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u136	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Ouwehand has indicated that she sees that the natural effects are quickly being offset. She thinks that you should actually take mitigating measures to prevent the damage to nature values and that you should not immediately come up with compensatory values by doing something extra somewhere else. She felt that nature conservation should be paramount in the area itself. It does not affect the requirements of the Habitats Directive and the Nature Conservation Act for the protection of Natura 2000 sites. They remain in full effect. This means an appropriate assessment of the impact of a wind farm on Natura 2000 sites. A lot decision can only be taken if it is ensured that the natural characteristics of the area concerned are not affected. The solution must be found in mitigation measures to prevent or mitigate any effects. For example, the capacity of windmills is increased: you go from 3 MW to 3.2 MW. This allows you to achieve that on certain parts of the day and in certain parts of the year you're running at a lower speed or that you're not even spinning at all, depending on how the bats and birds fly, so you can take that into account. Those are mitigating measures. That is the starting point on which we are heading. We are going to prescribe those mitigating measures in the lot decisions we take. As far as I am concerned, compensation is not on the table. I am insisting that we do so by means of mitigation measures. If that is ultimately impossible, something else has to happen, but that is not my intention. Following on, I would like to say to Mrs van Veldhoven that it is not the intention that we should suspend the legislation on nature. The Nature Protection Act and the Flora and fauna Act continue to apply. The Lot Decision only replaces a permit which would otherwise have to be issued. That does not mean that the permit and the conditions of the permit are no longer in question. It now appears as part of the Lot Decision. In substance, the laws I have just mentioned remain fully applicable. Mrs Ouwehand spoke about the framework ecology and cumulation. In particular, she talked about the effects of mooring on, for example, the animals in the water, the underwater noise. She wants more clarity on what is going to happen on that point. We make these effects a separate framework ecology and cumulation. It'll be made public soon. It will then be possible to respond and a number of months later it will be adopted. That framework ecology and cumulation will show that it is necessary to set an upper limit on underwater noise. We shall then include that in the lot decisions. A draft lot decision will first be consulted. We can respond to that. We are still examining exactly how these standards should be implemented. Mrs Ouwehand spoke about the possibility of harmful substances being released into the water. We assume that there will be no discharges from the mills into the water, for example from rust. If there is some form of discharge, then the Water Act requires authorisation. It will then be used. In this way, we must guarantee the quality of the North Sea environment with this permit and the conditions. Mrs Ouwehand says that with the SDE+ procedure we choose the cheapest plan rather than the best one. In a way, that's true. The SDE+ scheme is a grant instrument for achieving a specific objective. The goal we want to achieve is that the transition to renewable energy is achieved at the lowest possible price. Various studies and reports from the Court of Auditors have shown that if you want to achieve different goals with a grant instrument, little will come of them. It is good to have one goal and try to achieve it with a grant instrument. That is what we are doing: achieving renewable energy in a cost-effective way. That does not mean, however, that all these natural effects and the surroundings are of no importance. They're definitely important. Therefore, the Lot Decision and Lot Decisions lay down cross-compliance conditions that you have to comply with. If you are going to realize those windmills, you have to meet the conditions that are laid down in them. These are conditions aimed at ensuring that nature interests are protected. Indeed, the SDE+ only sees cost efficiency. All other things that concern nature values and nature effects are realized through the lot decision and the lot decisions. Mrs Ouwehand also asked me about cuts in meat and the need to do so. I am now working on renewable energy and the ambition we have in this area. We are talking about the need to achieve part of the wind energy at sea, the way in which I intend to do so and the way in which this law can contribute to this. I think that a reflection on the desirability of less eating meat and less producing meat for human consumption is not something I should take into account. I do not feel that this will bring decision-making closer here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u137	I mentioned this because all the experts, independent scientists in the field of climate, energy and biodiversity, have identified it as one of the most important tools for achieving climate, energy and biodiversity targets. However, the cabinet is looking the other way. In other respects too, the Party for Animals has said that it is very harsh and acidic to let nature in the North Sea bear the burden, while in other areas we perform so badly. As part of the difficult balance that you have to make when you are in favour of green energy and also for good protection of nature in an area that is already under pressure, I call on the Cabinet to do more in other areas as well. When is the time when the cabinet is starting to get a little sensitive about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u138	We're very sensitive to that. If there is a discussion here on the issues that Mrs Ouwehand considers important, for example the less consumption of meat, then this should be discussed by the government and Parliament. However, I do not see this as a subject that we should discuss tonight. I also believe that saving energy is of the utmost importance, as is the more application of heat. There's a lot of things to say about that, and we do. We've had regular discussions on that. Given the importance of energy saving, it is also important, as we have established, to make electricity production more sustainable. This includes, among other things, the realisation of windmills at sea. That is the subject we are discussing tonight. So it's not like I'm looking away from other things. No, I'm talking about other things at another time. We have now established in the energy agreement and in the government agreement that this is an important part of that very broad whole. Tonight we are talking about how we can achieve that part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u139	I understand that, but the Party for Animals isn't much of the fragmented policies dealt with. We would like to see this in the wider context. That is why I appeal to the Minister for the SDE+ grant scheme, which he himself is talking about, in the context of subsidising manure fermentation. I've explained to you that that's incredibly energy-intensive on the front. We are not just trying to solve energy and climate problems in the Netherlands. I don't think so. We cause a lot of problems across the border. Is the Minister not prepared to say this evening: perhaps it is sin, carrying water to the sea, to subsidise manure fermentation, given the enormous waste of energy that is also there? Can we hear from the minister? After all, it is not just about wind at sea. It's in a broader context.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u140	It is in a broader context, where energy saving is an important part of it. We have occasions where we talk about that. When we talk about energy as a whole, about the annual report on energy, the National Energy Exploratory, or about the energy report that comes at the end of this year, all these different parts are covered. Another important element is that we are going to produce electricity sustainably. If we do our best to achieve, in accordance with the ambition of the Energy Agreement, something which I think Mrs Ouwehand wants to do, namely to achieve the transition from fossil energy to renewable energy, which is part of the wind energy at sea, then I find it a bit unfortunate that she is dissatisfied because I am not talking about meat reduction and energy saving. We're not gonna get anywhere like this, are we? Isn't that just how we're looking for the opposites that we're in agreement with each other? Mrs Dik-Faber spoke, among other things, about the consultations to be held with the parties. She mentioned the fishing sector and other parties that have an interest in the North Sea. Of course, it is of the utmost importance that the fisheries sector should also be consulted. We have already established that there are possibilities for vessels up to 24 metres to fish in those wind farms. For larger ships, it can be looked at separately and further consultations will take place. There are a lot of parties that need to be consulted. That has happened and will continue to happen. There is a major intervention in the North Sea, because we consider it important to make that transition to renewable energy. Of course, that has its drawbacks. Besides costing money, it also has all kinds of effects that you can talk to each other about. In order to minimise the adverse effects and manage them as far as possible, this consultation is highly desirable. That will therefore continue to be the case. Mrs Dik-Faber said that she was positive about the distance to the coast. She made the comparison with windmills on land, which often get quite close to people. She says that the nearest mills are located at 18.5 kilometers or 10 miles. Mrs Dik-Faber knows that tonight we are not deciding where exactly these wind farms will be and how far they will be from the coast. However, her view is important to me. I have also expressed my own view on this. I don't want to play hide-and-seek around here. I believe that there should be five 700 MW at three locations. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Bij Borssele kan het buiten de 12 mijlszone en bij de Zuid-Hollandse en Noord-Hollandse kust moet het op een afstand van 10 mijl komen.]] That way, I can fit it in responsibly. I communicated that, with all the support, with the Chamber. That doesn't mean we're gonna decide tonight to do it exactly like this. That will be in the Water Plan. There's already a Water Plan in place. What we want to do now in Borssele is covered. What needs to be done on the North and South Dutch coasts must be changed by means of a change to the Water Plan. This will lead to a result in the course of August and then in December. This means that no decision will be taken on this point at the moment. However, it is important to take note of the views expressed here in the Chamber. These will be involved in the final preparation of the Water Plan. With that, the Chamber is already aware of my approach, my angle, and we'll see how that's going to work out in the Water Plan...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u141	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u142	Perhaps Mrs Mulder will allow me to correct that at one point. The Water Plan concerning Borssele was adopted in December 2015, i.e. last December. A procedure has now entered into force to adapt the Water Plan for the South and North Holland coasts. From April onwards, participation will take place in the area. The animations mentioned by Mrs Mulder will be used. The adoption of that amendment will take place in mid-2016. That means that it starts in April, but that you end up there in mid-2016...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u143	Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u144	One moment, Madam President. I'd like to check something out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u145	I thought maybe it would help if she...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u146	Let me rephrase one more time, because I just missed out when I said: December last. There's a Water Plan in place. That'll cover Borssele. There has to be a change to that Water Plan now. This is necessary if we are to achieve the intentions we have for the South-Holland and the North-Holland coasts. This procedure will lead to a definitive designation of the sites by mid-2016. Between now and mid-2016, this procedure will therefore run, informing all stakeholders, balancing interests and allowing for participation. All that will happen at that time. Thank you for the opportunity to restore this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u147	Sometimes you shouldn't disturb a brooding chicken. That's why I thought I'd wait it out. Maybe that'll give the room why the colleague of the SP also asked. How is the Minister going to table the coastal communities to see how employment can be maintained? That wish of the people there is very real. We are talking about families who want to stay at work and have an income. Can the Minister carry out the commitment to implement an SMEA specifically for the coastal communities in time, so before this whole procedure starts? Then we really know exactly what the effects are and what space there is to consider, in consultation with the communities there, whether it can be filled in otherwise, namely a part not within that 10 miles. Does he still see that room?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u148	I myself made that assessment. I have looked very closely at where the parks could be realized off the coast. I've made the decision. How can you achieve standardisation? How many mills do you need for that? What other interests do you have to take into account? How can we take into account defence, fisheries, sand extraction, oil and gas extraction and the other interests that are at stake in the North Sea? How can you fit the new wind at sea on a large scale into that? And how can you control the costs? I have therefore made that assessment, with the result of what is now on the table. Between now and the moment we will talk about this with the area, no new data will be available. Whatever's in there right now, it's there. However, it will be discussed with the area. We must be realistic enough to realise that the creation at sea of such a huge capacity, designed to meet electricity needs for two thirds of Dutch households, has effects. This has consequences for fishing, for shipping, for oil and gas extraction and for what you see from the coast. I'm not gonna talk that out of it. You have to talk about it. You have to listen and see how to minimize those effects as much as possible. That's what's gonna happen in the next few days. There are no further separate investigations on the basis of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u149	In the letter from the minister we received last Monday, at the bottom of page 5 and at the top of page 6, it was stated that there is still research going on into ways of getting further away from the sea and then in the total SMEA to see how you could be better off in favour of the coastal communities. Is the Minister actually saying: whatever comes out of that, I am already convinced that it will be between 10 and 12 miles?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u150	I'm gonna go into that. I'm not saying, by definition, what I'm saying is coming out. I've been directing this whole thing towards me. So I must have a line that I have thought carefully and which I can defend in the Chamber. I do. However, I do not want to say that all the procedures to be followed will not be followed according to the letter and the spirit of the rules in force. I come to the alternative to the locations, which are largely outside the 12 mile zone but for a small part within the 12 mile zone, up to 10 miles from the coast. The fraction of the VVD has suggested that it can be realised at a different location, i.e. IJmuiden Ver, at a lower cost. I'm not going to investigate that. I said that I was open to the industry's possible claim that it could, as Mr Veegte said at the time. When it comes, I'll study it. As I have said, I will come forward with conclusions before the summer of this year. I'm certainly not going to slow things down, but I'm going to try to speed things up a little. If, for example, I have an impression in April or May of what the industry can achieve before the summer, I will draw my conclusions and share them with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u151	I am pleased to hear from the Minister that he is prepared to look at the industrial plans for IJmuiden. The Minister also said he wanted to see how the negative effects he was prepared to accept could be reduced as much as possible. As a result of the social cost-benefit analysis Wind energy at sea has now been recommended to further investigate where real risks exist and at which locations they are less significant. Is the Minister prepared to make a more detailed analysis, which can also contribute to minimising the risks and disadvantages, as he himself supports?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u152	The choice for the locations, so Borssele, the South Holland coast and the North Holland coast, was not made by means of wet fingering. We have looked at the possibilities, the other interests and the costs. We've made this choice, the best one in my eyes. That's why I'm defending her. As we go through the further procedures, we will see if those locations can get through and how things are in the Chamber. I have received quite a lot of support from the group of the VVD. She says it's okay. She believes that it is possible to go further in the North Sea for comparable amounts, even though the pattern of standardisation, which I explained last time, is breaking. Because I didn't see it myself and I didn't have the wisdom in rent, I said, "Let them come up with information." If that information comes before the summer, I'll study her and share her with the Chamber. That's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u153	You will not hear me accuse this Minister of wet fingering. He never does. He's always trying to back up his decisions. That is why I am surprised that he refuses to look again at those locations that have greater advantages and those that have greater disadvantages, while the recommendation to do so comes from the SMEA that he himself had carried out. What do we have to lose if we do do it on the basis of the SME recommended research?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u154	I have a goal to achieve: I have to make the transition to renewable energy. That is not a vague goal in the future. It sets out exactly what should be achieved by 2020, in 2023, in 2030 and in 2050. That's what I've got to do. That is why I need to have a vision and direction, make choices and implement framework conditions. I have to do research, be careful, make a decision and then make a decision. Once that's taken, that's it and I'm on. I can't keep getting on the brakes and doing research to see what comes out of it. I've made a careful assessment and made a decision. That's it, and that's the procedure. We'll see if any other things come out of that. I'm not gonna slow down now and say I'm gonna get another investigation to see if there's any other way. I think what we've done now is best. As regards IJmuiden Ver, the alternative, I have already said that I will draw conclusions and will share them with the Chamber as soon as it can be done in a responsible way in my view and I have the information that the industry is providing or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u155	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u156	I already told the Chamber that we had made the choice of being close to the coast and standardized and that I cannot imagine that you are cheaper out or have the same low costs if you sit at a longer distance. Anyway, that's got to prove it. I'll wait and see. I was working on Mrs Dik-Faber's input. We talked about the location and the amount of 12 billion instead of 18 billion that we initially had. Mrs Dik-Faber further asked if I am talking to the big financiers about covering the costs of wind at sea. Of course, that's what we are all the time. I talked about it in Japan, in Korea, in China and here in the Netherlands. We consult banks, pension funds and everyone involved in the wind at sea. We simply find that investors are very interested in this. There is also a lot of interest for financiers. One pension fund has already been mentioned and another pension fund is still being discussed. So there's that interest. I shall come back to the amendments later. Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Van Tongeren draw the conclusion that we favour mining activities over wind at sea. That's not true. We see both mining activities, i.e. oil and gas extraction in the North Sea, and wind energy as activities of great general interest. It is still necessary in the coming years to use fossil energy in addition to renewable energy. You can import them, but if you can find them in a responsible way in your own country or sea area, you should do so. So we are both working on it, but achieving the goals for wind at sea is my starting point. I pay attention to all things that are in the public interest, including mining activities, because we still need oil and gas for the time being. But I'm heading in the first place towards my ultimate goal, realizing the capacity of wind at sea. Mrs Dik-Faber spoke about TenneT. That's what I did. She also asked why the draft law submitted to the Council of State did not include the possibility for licence holders to appeal. That gap in legal protection is not a conscious choice I made. The SGP Group pointed out this gap in the written input. I then submitted a letter of amendment to fill that gap. That is one example of the value of the Court's contribution to the drafting of a law. That is what Mrs Dik-Faber is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u157	Mrs Dik-Faber and I have also asked why wind at sea is not given priority. We have not argued that oil and gas are favoured at the expense of wind, but asked whether it is logical to favour wind at sea if you ultimately want a sustainable energy system. I also understood that it was almost clear in the consultations with NOGEPA that wind would take precedence at sea. Maybe the Minister can explain how he looks at this and how it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u158	I believe that Mrs Van Tongeren and I share that view. I also consider the extraction of oil and gas of general interest. She doesn't think so, because she says no oil and gas; I want you to focus entirely on energy saving and renewable energy. However, I also consider oil and gas extraction to be of general interest, so I also take that into account. For me, however, what I am doing in the North Sea is dominant: I must ensure that I make the transition to renewable energy and that a considerable capacity of wind becomes available at sea. I need to get that done now. So that's my first priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u159	Finally, Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u160	Maybe we can get it a little sharper. The Minister is now saying that it is his first priority to get wind at sea. Suppose there is an area at sea where gas, oil or shale gas could be present, which is also a very good location for wind. Is the Minister in consultation with NOGEPA to ensure that wind is given priority? Or is it not doing so well with the sector, which says: we want that oil and gas first, and when we are done, can that wind farm come?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u161	I've made my decisions. I have looked at fishing interests, the importance of defence, the importance of shipping, which must reach the ports and the importance of oil and gas extraction. I also looked at my ambition for wind at sea. Which places are suitable for that? What about the cost? Closer to the coast? Farther from the coast? On this basis I made my assessment and presented three locations to the Chamber: Borssele, the North Holland coast and the South Holland coast. That's been my consideration. I made it. As I have already indicated, I am at the moment primarily trying to ensure that I make that transition. It is therefore necessary to build up new capacity. That needs extra attention from me as a ruler, and I give it to him as well. The three locations I've identified are the result of that. If we do this, we can achieve a very large capacity of electricity from windmills at sea in three places. One is outside the 12 mile zone and the other two are largely outside the 12 mile zone and for a small part, up to a maximum of 10 miles, within that zone. With a standardized design and in a very responsible way in terms of time, location and balance of interests, I believe we are making the right choice. Mrs Van Veldhoven has given me a number of pressing questions about the 3 billion and the related issues. I answered those questions. I dealt with the 40% reduction in costs. I still have to deal with the existing permits. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked why we should pay the costs of the existing licences under the SDE+ scheme. As far as I am concerned, the existing permits had already been removed. In 2009, we had a tender. It was possible to grant three grants. There were 12 licences that had to be granted according to the procedure at that time. Subsequently, three projects were eligible for aid; the remaining nine were to be cancelled. The House then adopted the Van Veldhoven motion which stated that these licences should continue to float above the market. My predecessor said at the time that the government would do this. At the moment, I am responsible for the implementation of the coalition agreement and the energy agreement. I must ensure that a major transition is achieved in a responsible way in a short time and at the lowest possible cost. The existing licences do not fit in with the set-up and pace necessary to meet our low-cost ambition. I can make those permits float over the market any longer, but I'm not in the mood for that. That only ends and that complicates the case. For this reason, I said that the existing permits would expire and that I would also withdraw them from the SDE+ 2014. If licence holders had incurred costs under the SDE+ 2014, I would talk to them about this and see what we should do about it. I talked to them about that. There's a picture of the amount of those costs. I've informed the Chamber of the total amount. A part of the total cost of achieving wind at sea is the transition to renewable energy. There's all kinds of costs involved. If we opt for a different design, while some have incurred costs in 2014 under the SDE+, which is intended for the realisation of renewable energy, then we should reasonably reimburse those costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u162	Have you answered all of Mrs Van Veldhoven's questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u163	Not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u164	I suggest that the Minister first responds to all of Mrs Van Veldhoven's questions. Mrs Van Veldhoven will then be given the opportunity to post an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u165	A point of order. I would prefer not to, because I may have several questions with regard to the various answers given by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u166	That's okay, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u167	I will do what you say, namely to answer Mrs van Veldhoven's other questions first. I have already talked about the assumptions behind the amount of 3 billion. I have also mentioned the 40% reduction in costs. Mrs Van Veldhoven says that there is a certain lead time between the time that permits are issued and the time when the construction actually starts. In the meantime, innovations can take place. There must then be room for these innovations to be applied. I fully agree with Mrs Van Veldhoven. Authorisations shall be granted in accordance with this Regulation. If innovations can be applied between the time of granting the permit and the moment of the start of construction, then that is a good thing and we will do so. Authorisation should make this possible. I have also mentioned the costs of TenneT which are charged to the electricity bill. I have also said that they can be compensated by granting a subsidy from the SDE+ scheme. We are going to look at that and discuss with the Chamber the conclusions we will draw separately. Mrs Van Veldhoven also asked about European procurement rules. They do not apply, because this is not a tender. This is a grant tender. There is therefore a separate procedure where you cannot declare the procurement rules applicable. Mr President, I think I have answered Mrs van Veldhoven's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u168	I'm just gonna go back to the cost transfer. The energy agreement assumes an average reduction in the cost of wind at sea of 40% per MWh, to be achieved over the period 2014 to 2024. What does the word "average" mean? Anyway, I'm gonna move that average aside for now. A cost reduction of €0.005 per year in the period from 2014 to 2024 should, in my opinion, lead to a cost of €0.009 per kWh at the end. But if I go through with this, in 2024 I get to a cost of €0.10 per kWh. When and how will the Minister achieve that last cent reduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u169	It's about what it has to be in the end. We need to reach that €0.09. If you look at this over the whole period, what should it be every year? You'll end up at $0.005 a year. That is why we have committed this €0.005 as what we are prepared to pay for the subsidy. That's the outcome of that. Now I come to the moment that the €0.009 has been reached. You start counting down at some point. At the end of this year, the first tender will run. This results in results in the year 2016. Next, €0.005 goes off every year in a period of ten years. This means that in the year 2023 you are not yet up to the maximum, namely the €0,09 that needs to be realized. That comes in the years after that. During this period, you only collect part of the 40% cost reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u170	Then it doesn't correspond to the agreements in the energy agreement, does it? It states that in the period 2014 to 2024 40% would be achieved. Now I get to €0.10 in 2024. So we have only achieved a 33% reduction and not a 40% reduction. How is the Minister going to ensure that we actually achieve the 40% reduction in 2024?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u171	We are going to do that in a period of ten years. I just indicated which year is the first in which this can begin. This can be achieved at 0.5% per year. Then at some point you come to that final amount. We are now discussing the commitments for the year 2019 and not for the period from now until 2023. In the year 2015, the first tender will come. In 2016 the second, in 2017 the third and 2018 the fourth. In the year 2019 comes the fifth. In the period we can therefore not go further than five times €0,005, i.e. in total €0.025. In the period thereafter, the other half cents per year will be realized, until we end up with a 60% reduction on €0,15, which is €0,09.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u172	I can only conclude that the Minister has implicitly extended the energy agreement for two years. He is actually saying that it does not run until 2024, but until 2026 and that this is also the period in which he is going to achieve the cost reduction. I have another question about licensing. I understand why the Minister is now saying that he can't do as much with the old permits in the new approach he has chosen. I also think he has reason to propose this new approach to the Chamber. My group supports them, too. Then it is logical that the costs incurred by the parties should be properly reimbursed, but the question remains as to why this should be done from the SDE+. At first the minister was always very strict in what the SDE+ could be used for. I think he's dealing with that a lot more broadly now. He says: this is necessary in order to achieve the transition and achieve the goals. Then I repeat my previous question. Energy saving also brings us closer to our objectives in a perhaps even cheaper way. Nevertheless, the Minister has always said: no, we are not going to finance that from the SDE+. What is his fundamental objection to financing energy saving if he does finance the network and this kind of cost?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u173	I welcome Mrs Van Veldhoven's attitude on the existing permits. I know she's been looking into that for a long time, and she can finally share my conclusion. In view of the design we have now chosen, which we are now applying very consistently and have defended in the Chamber, she says: I understand that the old permits do not fit in with that design. I appreciate that. I think that these costs, that amount of seven-point-some-million, are very reasonable when you are engaged in such a large operation and in the interim have to take a decision that existing permits will not be renewed and that they will not be allowed to participate in the SDE+ 2014, while those who had licences have already incurred costs to be able to participate in the SDE+ 2014. I believe that these costs are part of our major operation, namely to ensure that the wind-up capacity is realised. TenneT has to do something for that. All kinds of advisory bodies should be involved, for which the costs should be covered. You have to do a lot of communication for which the costs have to be covered. This also includes providing cover for the costs to be incurred in connection with the old permits. I think that's part of the complex wind at sea. I think it makes sense to finance this part from covering those costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u174	The only point on which the Minister and I do not entirely agree is whether you should throw away the old shoes before the new shoes are in the closet. Maybe he can go into that point. Why should we allow the old licences to expire before the new licences have been granted for the same quantity of MWh? Only then can you say that there is an empty space claim, because you really invested the amount of energy in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u175	I really can't lose those old permits. If I'm gonna honor them, they might end up in the three locations I've got in mind. But I want to make the most of these locations and I want a total of 3,500 MW in them. If I use part of that location for an old permit, I can't realize my ambition in that area. Besides, I don't want to talk about it all over the North Sea. I want it as close as possible as is justified. I also want to be able to put it in the standardised format. That's what I've weighed and decided. I really can't put those old permits in there. I have nothing against those old permits. If it could have been done in a responsible way under the conditions mentioned in the energy agreement, I would have wanted to do so. But now that it doesn't turn out to be, I think we should get rid of it sometime. So I said it's over with the old permits. And as far as costs are concerned, I think it's reasonable and logical to see it as part of the total cost you have to make for the transition to renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u176	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u177	I have therefore dealt with Mrs van Veldhoven's points. I come now to Mrs Van Tongeren's points. In addition to all the things I have already dealt with, and some of which I could talk to her about in interruptions, she asked about the risk of late delivery of the network at sea. Here's the thing. There's gotta be a lot of things going on. There are all sorts of procedures to be followed. TenneT has to do his job. The wind farm operators must achieve it all technically. They have to stay within the cost. It needs funding. The permits must be there. I have already mentioned all the procedures surrounding this. So much needs to be done. This also includes the fact that you always treat the parts very carefully. We are convinced that what we have now agreed with TenneT on the network at sea, on the pace and price at which it is to be done is possible. This has also been demonstrated by the intensive contact with TenneT. There has also been contact with others in the field. We've had it all checked again. Once again, we believe that what TenneT needs to do can be achieved in good time. If something goes wrong and if TenneT does not have the connection done at the time when a windmill operator has realized a park, that is not the problem of the windmill operator, but of TenneT. TenneT will then have to discuss the way in which the company takes care of these costs. I have no indication or expectation of it, but if there is any gross negligence on the part of TenneT, it will have to affect the company itself. If TenneT has done its best and has worked as well as possible on a result, then it is possible that its costs may have to be passed on to those to whom TenneT always charges the costs, namely the customer of electricity. That will be the way in which this will be settled, but it is not something we take into account, let alone what we strive for. No, we aim to ensure that everyone does their own part well and in good time. It is my expectation that TenneT will do the same. Mrs Van Tongeren asked how this all happened to investors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u178	Mr President, I would like to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u179	I actually want to make the same proposal as I made to Mrs Van Veldhoven earlier. When the Minister has finished answering your questions, you will have the opportunity to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u180	I'm making a point of order. I have the same problem as Mrs Van Veldhoven. I have asked questions on several subjects. And then I'm gonna have to make three interruptions in a row. I would like to ask the Minister a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u181	If you can do it very briefly, you'll have the space for that. Interrupts are supposed to be really short. The Minister has been busy for an hour and a half, mostly answering interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u182	This is one of the government's biggest investments, so it certainly seems to me worthwhile to conduct this debate carefully. This minister also puts a lot of energy into it. The Chamber must do justice to the weight of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u183	But that can also be very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u184	The last time I raised the same point, the Minister said: that is a good point; I will come up with a more detailed approach. I have not yet seen that further development and now I hear the Minister say that this is not a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u185	It's my job to make sure the whole process goes well. I've drawn the direction towards me. I've turned off the road map. I've made the decisions I think should be made. I have sufficient support for that. I've done the weighing carefully. I've had a lot of consultations with the field. So I think what I'm doing here can and is responsible. There is also the use of TenneT and the benefits it brings. What I'm asking TenneT is what the company thinks it can deliver. It's not like TenneT tells me it takes four years and then I tell the Chamber it can be done within three years. No, that's not how I do it. What I've agreed to with TenneT is what TenneT also thinks is possible. I have subjected the costs and calculations to a second opinion. This fits into my picture and that's what I'm standing for. I think TenneT can make sure that the connections are there in time, starting with Borssele and then in South Holland and North Holland. I just said what we'd do if things didn't work out. I think we have clarified this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u186	Mrs Van Tongeren, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u187	Did the Minister make a mistake the last time he promised me that he would inform the Chamber in writing about the distribution of risks? I also assume that TenneT is going to make it, but there are times when something you assume will not be realized in the world. Has the Minister made a mistake last time about the commitment to GroenLinks to put this on paper? Why isn't it possible to settle this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u188	If I promise to do something in writing, I must do so in writing. It doesn't seem clear to me, but if I didn't, I'm sorry. However, I am now crystal clear, because I say three things. Firstly, I say that TenneT can do it and secondly, that if TenneT cannot do it, it is not the fault of the wind farm operators, but of TenneT. It is possible that TenneT cannot reasonably be blamed or that it is not all that bad. In such cases, it may be passed on to the cost of electricity. If there is gross negligence by TenneT, TenneT will have to bear the costs itself, in so far as they were caused by TenneT. So I said it could be done. The windmill operator is not confronted with the account. Finally, I have outlined two options for who will ultimately pay the bill. I'm sorry I didn't put it on paper, but at least I made it clear orally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u189	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u190	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Tongeren asked how we are protecting investors from changing energy policies. I can assure her that investors in the world do not have the idea that the Netherlands has varying policies for wind at sea. We look with great appreciation at what we have done and at our choice to achieve a certain percentage with broad support in society and to allow wind at sea to be part of it. We then set out a roadmap for this and came up with the bill that the Chamber is discussing today. We have arranged the funding, conducted all the necessary consultations and made a combination of authorisation and lot decision. The work that needs to be done for investigations, we do not lay down with the operators of wind farms, because we do so ourselves. What we are doing, combined with funding through the SDE+ scheme, gives maximum clarity and certainty to investors, and that is very much appreciated. That is why we can count on great interest from the world in what we are going to do and great interest from the financiers. We will continue the dialogue with the sector and all those involved, both international and national. I can also tell Mrs van Tongeren what the compensation scheme will look like in the event of unexpected failure. I think it would be useful to include it in the STROOM bill. How exactly I'm going to do that, I don't know yet. It may have effects on the legislative text, but it may also be included in the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal. I have informed Mrs Van Tongeren of the substance of the matter. The detailed details of how it will be done will be included in the STROOM bill. That was the commitment Mrs Van Tongeren remembered. So I'm reconfirming it here. Mrs Van Tongeren spoke about the timetable. I can't help but say we're doing good. The intention of the Energy Agreement was to tender 450 MW this year, but we are already losing 700 MW this year. That means we're ahead of schedule. I must not forget that Mrs Van Tongeren has also spoken about pleasure boating. When choosing the location of the wind farms we took all other interests into account. This includes shipping, of which pleasure shipping is a part. We will therefore offer the pleasure boating all the possibilities, provided they are justified. If it is not justified, we will have to impose restrictions. I realize very well that there are many claims in the North Sea and that I add a very large additional claim to that. That pricks and I will try to limit that "pricking" as much as possible. The possibilities that must be reasonably exploited will be given scope.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u191	I understand from the sector that there has indeed been fruitful consultation with EZ on this issue. The only thing that is missing is final clarity. I understand that there is indeed good consultation in the line outlined by the Minister. Perhaps the Minister will be able, orally or in a letter which would still be available, to give an idea about the sailing sector off the Dutch coast. My other outstanding question is this: can the first tender tender be carried out before STROOM is in force? In any case, this answers the questions raised by the Minister in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u192	The information about sailing and fishing between windmills is relevant to me. These are interests that need to be weighed up. At the right time, I will let the Chamber know what is the result of the consideration and what possibilities we have been able to allow. I make that commitment to Mrs Van Tongeren. She then asked a question about the interplay with STROOM, the revision of the Electricity Act and the Gas Act. I started my input by saying that it's a complicated whole. There are a lot of building blocks I have to take into account. There are all kinds of procedural obligations and major interventions need to be carried out. Looking back at how we do it, I'd have done it differently if I had all the time. Then I would have finished one completely and then I would have started the next. Now I think it overlaps a bit on parts. It is possible to criticise this, but I would ask the Chamber to allow this to be overlooked. I am trying to limit this as much as possible and to keep to the rules, but above all to keep to the progress. It is really necessary for me to work consistently on this progress, otherwise we will not be able to achieve our ambition for 2020 and 2023. Mr. Chairman. Mr Smaling asked about the relative position of the Netherlands in the field of wind energy at sea. I cannot reflect this in figures, but only say that almost all wind farms in the North Sea involve Dutch companies, especially with the knowledge they have about the installation of the wind farm, the cables. We talked about TenneT, which is really good at that. A company like Van Oord has a lot of expertise in the installation, just like other companies. The same applies to maintenance. There is now so much knowledge and so much entrepreneurial power at Dutch companies that we are now involved in almost all wind farms. We believe that our companies, with the good ports we have, are well positioned to participate in the further development of the wind farms, the Danish, English, German, Belgian and of course also Dutch. In fact, we are involved in everything except the delivery of the turbines themselves. This capacity is not available in the Netherlands, but in Denmark and Germany. With my answers to questions from Mrs Ouwehand on the rules of Natura 2000, which are all respected, I also meant to answer Mr Smaling. I have also spoken about the 10 mile zone and 12 mile zone. Mr Smaling also asked about the 15,000 jobs which, as was thought, could generate the energy agreement as a whole. When I see how we have standardized what we have done with wind at sea and how we have achieved 700 MW five times at a high rate, five years in a row, I see that we are doing a great deal. This means that we are really on the map in terms of wind energy and that our companies can lose a lot of expertise close to home, with which they have a good competitive position. From this power they can then also work elsewhere. I therefore believe that the starting position of our companies is good and that the share that wind should reasonably provide at sea in the 15,000 jobs can also be delivered. The technical staff is, of course, a problem in our country as a whole. Companies need technical people. Whether it's programming, maintenance or production, companies always have a shortage of technical people. Every time I'm in a region, I say, if you want to do something about unemployment in your region, make sure you train people for technology, either the young people, or some older people who have to retrain. If you make sure that you take the lead in that, so that the technical people are available in your area, the companies will come as well. The same goes for Vlissingen and Den Helder. If they want to maintain their businesses and attract new businesses, they must ensure that technical staff are available in that area. This means that public authorities there must cooperate with companies, as is happening intensively throughout the country, to ensure that there are staff available specifically targeted at this sector. This is a very important point that Mr Smaling raised and a point on which I agree with him. Mr Smaling spoke about the ABP as the first sheep on the dam. I said we're talking to the second sheep. Mr Smaling has asked how we can accommodate people who live in poorly isolated rental homes. The cost of renewable energy that will have to be made in the coming years is, after all, half passed on to businesses and half on to citizens. Within the group described by Mr Smaling, these costs are the hardest to bear. We're doing a few things for this group. We ensure that the costs do not end up entirely with the citizens, but that they are shared out between businesses and citizens. In addition, we make arrangements for poorly isolated rental houses, both corporation houses and houses in private ownership, which make it attractive for owners and tenants to participate in the energy efficiency of these rental houses. So we try to accommodate people, both by passing on the costs and by enabling people to get their homes well isolated. I think that'll work. We are, of course, being helped at the moment by the fact that energy costs have been declining lately. This is due to the low price of oil and its effects on gas prices and the competition we have created in the energy market. This means that the costs at the moment are considerably lower than we thought some time ago. As far as I'm concerned, the pressure shouldn't go off. I consider the isolation of poorly isolated rental houses to be of the utmost importance, both for corporate homes and for private-owned homes. Mr Smaling also asked whether the land-use decision under the Land-use Planning Act could not be formulated as well as a plan of national integration. We can't have a plan of national integration at sea. The Spatial Planning Act has the possibility at AMvB to draw up a state planning plan for the sea, but we have not done so because a state planning plan does not offer the possibility for an issuing system. What I have done now is to link the granting of permits and the framework decision together, to conduct the investigations and to attach conditions for nature values as a whole. This is a practical and faster way of working, which I believe is better than the alternative that Mr Smaling suggested as an option in this case. That's why we didn't choose it. I am not going into the issue of the builders at the moment. If there is going to be bankruptcy while something is under construction, something will have to be arranged to ensure that the construction is continued by someone else, who will realize it. If the wind farm has already been realized and an operator goes bankrupt, another construction will have to be found. The risk of the latter is not very high, because a grant commitment is given for a long period of time. As electricity is supplied, there is also a subsidy, so I do not think that the risk of bankruptcy with the current arrangements is such that it could not be adequately repaired. I have already spoken about the coastal communities and the discussions that will take place with these municipalities. Animation images will also be shown. I think I have answered Mr Smaling's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u193	Thank you. Those answers were very clear. I have one more point that I would like to deepen with the Minister. Gas and electricity prices are low and the SDE+ is not very burdensome yet, but is rising rather quickly. The amount in 2016 is already the quadruple of the amount in 2013. That is still not a very large amount, but it can be. Can the Minister promise that in the coming years he will ensure that this does not arise in such a way that the people who already have payment problems are affected by it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u194	When we decide next year's budget as a cabinet in August, it is our job to look at the whole of the burden on the various groups of citizens and their impact on their purchasing power. This has to be part of that. What is going on here needs to be sufficiently translated into the purchasing power situation per group. The outcome will also have to be assessed. I can say this to Mr Smaling in addition to what I have already said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u195	I am partly reassured by this, but this is also so important for the Socialist Group in the European Parliament that I might table a motion on this subject in the second term. Then maybe we can cut it off after that. Again, this is very important. I would also like to thank the Minister for the clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u196	I would also like to thank Mr Smaling. I must say, however, that I am not dealing here with income policy or purchasing power issues. I must ensure that the transition to renewable energy is realised. And that's part of the fact that you're also doing it financially. Mr Smaling took out a group which he felt should be given extra attention. I agree with him. We must therefore ensure that we always pay attention to this in terms of isolation, cost-sharing and assessment of the final results of purchasing power. I'm willing to do that, too. Mrs Mulder has raised a number of points. She spoke, among other things, of the cost reduction. That's what I've been doing. Mrs Mulder also talked about the visualisation tool, as she calls it, which shows what it will look like on the coast when windmills are 10 miles away. There are already wind farms 6 miles away, but this shows what it will look like 10 miles away if we realise the intentions we have now made for the three locations. That visualization will be shared in the area. Consultation with the area will also take place on this basis. Mrs Mulder expressed a negative opinion on the postal code regime. I very much regret that, because the postal code scheme is intended to ensure that more local energy is produced. That's a very good arrangement. I'm actually proud of it. Four projects have now been decided. There are 12 projects that can also be made available if the initiators continue. Then we have 16 projects. Three further requests were received during the current year. They're being treated, but they're also looking positive. In the end, it could end up with nineteen projects. I understand that the Tax Administration is also receiving a lot of questions, in particular about the scheme since we extended the possibilities. So this is very much alive in the country. The Tax Administration itself expects a significant increase in the number of applications. I would also very much appreciate that, because I think it is important for people to be involved in local energy generation and to have a financial interest in it. I am therefore always in favour of this arrangement. I hope that the other points raised by Mrs Mulder will be dealt with in response to her interruptions or in conjunction with answers to other spokesmen. Mrs Klever said that she doesn't see anything in the bill and that the money is tossing it. That is the difference that we have in every debate here. One says that everything you see in the world in terms of the environment, the climate and the impetuousness of the climate requires action. This has been agreed internationally and within the European Union. We have a coalition agreement and an energy agreement. Mrs Klever says: that's all bullshit, that's throwing money over the head. Yes, then you are so far apart that a constructive exchange of views is not really possible. I have little to add to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u197	Of course, the fact that we may not get together is no reason not to answer my questions. I'll ask one of my questions again. This year 700 MW of wind at sea is being tendered. A cost of €0,145 is assumed. Is it true that a grant from the SDE+ will be paid for 15 years in 2019 at a cost of €0,145?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u198	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u199	Okay, then my follow-up question is as follows. The cost reduction of all wind farms from the energy agreement that will be tendered between 2015 and 2019 runs from 3% to 17%. The 18 billion grant the Minister always talks about is a 40% reduction in costs. This is also stated in the note on the basis of the further report, on page 2 at the very bottom. How is it that the Minister now says that these subsidies are not 18 billion, but 12 billion? That 18 billion was already based on 40% cost reduction. We come up to 17% cost reduction. Then where'd you get the 12 billion? How can it be less?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u200	I said yes to Mrs Klever's previous question, but there is, of course, a whole scheme. You take different possibilities into account, depending on the level of the electricity price if you produce electricity with fossil energy. There are minimum amounts and maximum amounts, but that tender for 2015 is indeed based on that €0,145. Mrs Klever says to me: you always mention the 18 billion. That's a joke from Mrs. Klever, because she always brings up the 18 billion. She says you're throwing 18 billion into the sea. I have always said that 18 billion is the maximum amount that can be shown for this. I also said that the minimum amount is 9 billion. As soon as this was possible as a result of the National Energy Exploratory, I had it calculated on the basis of the current figures. We now come to an estimate that for the period between 2019 and 2038 an amount of 12 billion euros is needed to achieve the transition to renewable energy and to provide electricity to two thirds of households in the Netherlands. What about the percentages exactly? We are going to achieve that 40% reduction in costs in ten years. In this first period, the five years that we have five tenders in a row, we only achieve part of that cost reduction. This cost reduction is possible to a greater extent already achieved by TenneT. Further discussions are being held on how the distribution is exactly with the others who also need to achieve part of that cost reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u201	Perhaps I could quote a sentence from the note on the further report: "Only if TenneT achieves more than 40% cost reduction on its share of costs and wind farm owners also 40% on their share, then the maximum total cost of €18 billion will be reduced." Now we conclude that the 40% will not be achieved for another ten years or a little later. The wind farms that we are now tending reach a maximum of 17% reduction in costs. How could that 18 billion have already fallen to 12 billion? In my view, this can only be done if you assume more than a doubling of electricity prices.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u202	That 18 billion was the maximum. With that sentence it was said that that maximum would be lower. That ceiling is never the only thing I've communicated. That's the only thing Mrs. Klever has always taken out. She always wanted to suggest that it would cost 18 billion, while I said that it would cost up to 18 billion and at least 9 billion over the period from 2019 to 2038 to supply two thirds of Dutch households with electricity. I have now looked at the latest data as shown by the National Energy Exploratory. If you're going to calculate the numbers as they are now, what is the result in reality? So not between 9 billion and 18 billion, but what is it based on today's figures? That's the 12 billion. I think that's a relevant fact to share with the Chamber. If 14 billion had come out, I would have shared 14 billion with her, and if 8 billion had come out, I would have shared 8 billion. It's 12 billion. How this will develop in the coming years also depends on price developments. There are several factors that influence that calculation. I'll change that with the room again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u203	Finally, Mrs Klever.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u204	The minister says every time I take out that $18 billion. I am taking that 18 billion out of the note following last month's further report. The Minister assumed a 40% reduction in costs. Only if there was a greater reduction in costs would that amount be reduced by 18 billion. Now the minister says it's 12 billion. I'd like to believe it, but I don't understand much of it here. There's one question left. I also asked how all these billions relate to each other. The Minister has tried to explain that. I have put questions to the House as a result of Mr Nijpels' statement that windmills do not cost a subsidy. I asked the Minister how much they cost, and the Minister replied: 5.5 billion. How does the 5.5 billion relate to the 12 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u205	I will be happy to deal with the 5.5 billion. As far as the 18 billion is concerned, I have the feeling that Mrs Klever is reading all these pieces and that she will see 18 billion somewhere. Then I can say, also in that piece, that it is up to 18 billion and at least 9 billion, but then Mrs Klever comes here and says it is 18 billion. I'm not responsible for that. She's responsible for that herself. I have always mentioned both the maximum amount it will cost and the minimum amount of 9 billion. Now I'm able to calculate it more accurately, and I did. I'll let the Room know that, too. She's bringing in the 5.5 billion, too, but that's something else. If you look at it carefully, you can see that this 5.5 billion represents the total cost for the existing 1,000 MW. We've already got something at sea and there's more to it, Gemini and Loosduinen. In total, it ends towards 1,000 MW. What is involved in this is the 5.5 billion. So that 5.5 billion is about something other than the 18 billion. So that 18 billion is the maximum again. The minimum is 9 billion. The best estimate right now is 12 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u206	At least that's clear. Then I conclude that that was not the answer to my written questions. In that I asked about all the windmill plans in the energy agreement, but it is clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u207	Then I come to Mr Vos's contribution. Mr Vos, with his group and his group chairman, is one of the driving forces behind the coalition agreement, in support of the ambitions which it contains and which we have subsequently known to support by all parties involved in the energy agreement. Mr Vos is also one of those who always insist that I stick to the 2020 and 2023 dates and to the percentages 14 and 16. That means that I really have to make sure that I go through all the steps that are necessary for this in a careful way and that I let it all become a reality, that I can do it. That means I'm reluctant to step off my line to do something new. As far as financing is concerned, the idea we have chosen so far is that wind-mill operators should be given a grant commitment of 15 years. Based on the quality of their plan, the quality of their company and the grant commitment they have received from the Dutch government for a period of 15 years, they can attract money. There is competition between the providers of money. There's a lot of money available right now. I think they can get a good offer from financiers to realize their wind farms there. That amount of interest they will have to pay will never be as low as the amount of interest the State pays when it borrows money. That's because those wind farms pose a certain risk. If you realize a wind farm with a particular technique and you get a grant commitment for 15 years, you only get that grant if you actually produce the electricity. You get the subsidy on the basis of the electricity produced. If something technically goes wrong with such a wind farm, for example because the turbines are worn out after six years or because something went wrong in the design that prevents the wicks from running, no electricity is produced and therefore no subsidy is paid. Then not only the windmill operator but also the financier has a big problem. The risk incurred by a financier shall be added to that interest in the form of a risk premium. That's the amount that that operator has to pay. That is a very logical system which we have assumed and which is now being set in motion. However, I believe that Mr Samsom himself was speaking about this in a debate with the Prime Minister. It has been agreed that we will calculate how this other construction will work out, if you do it not in this way but in a different way, via the State. We've been promised to do that before the summer. I'll do the same. I'll make sure you understand that. The Empire will also have to take risks into account. If the Empire did not do so and the money would be transferred without a risk premium on it, State aid would be involved. State aid should not, in principle, be granted. This requires a whole process to be completed. That has an effect on the sequel. The question is, is that what you want as a government? You want to take the risk? Do you want to take it off the market and move to you as a state and then not charge a risk premium for it? Those are all things you can also have an opinion about. I will look at the whole range of aspects that could be considered here, in line with the commitments made by the Prime Minister to Mr Samsom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u208	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u209	It was an answer to a question from Mr Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u210	I would like to give Mr Vos the opportunity to ask his question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u211	I thank the Minister. I would like to clarify one point; I also have a question. It is not so much that my group advocates a different way of financing but that it advocates an additional form of financing. With regard to State aid, I would like to mention the comparative forms of financing established in the United Kingdom and Germany in the field of renewable energy. Similar forms of investment are used there. Would the Minister take that with him?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u212	I will involve Mr Vos' suggestion in the elaboration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u213	It's a good thing the Minister's gonna work that out. He rightly raises the fundamental question of whether you should want this. My question to the Minister would therefore be whether he thinks you should want this at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u214	I think it makes sense as we have set it up now. You let the market do this, as the market also owns the gas plants and coal plants. What we own is the electricity network via TenneT, and the gas network through the Gasunie. Whatever's around that, let's go through the market. The amount of 12 billion we spend on this between now and 2038 does not seem to me to be of such a nature that we should immediately deviate from that line. If a political group in the Chamber points that out to the Prime Minister as an alternative option to which attention should be given, and if the Prime Minister agrees, then I feel bound to do so. I will put that in the picture and I will include Mr Vos's addition. My line is to do it like I just said. I want everyone to understand how I'm doing this. The first is that I want to achieve that objective. The second is that I want to do it for as little money as possible. The third is that I want to realize wind at sea according to the plan which I myself presented to the Chamber in detail. The fourth point is that I want to do as I have explained in relation to the financing and the taking of risks. However, this does not mean that, for example, in the procedures to be carried out on the precise locations of the windmills in the Water Plan, I am deaf to participation and to what emerges from it. Nor does it mean that I would not listen to suggestions from the Labour Party in the Chamber, let alone that I would not keep a commitment from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u215	I wouldn't even dare make that suggestion! The question remains whether the Minister would also like to comment in his statement on the possible consequences of delays, perhaps they are not at all risk of delays. In fact, I believe that there is a great deal in the Chamber that we should not want delays.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u216	I will. I also think that this is a relevant aspect. The Group of the Party of European Socialists, which draws attention to this, also calls for attention to be paid to the timely achievement of the objectives. I will certainly include that element. Thank you, Mrs Van Veldhoven. I shall look into other points raised by Mr Vos. He was compact in his input. He also talked about the location of IJmuiden Ver, about which the fraction of the VVD also started last time. I've already responded to that. I have also responded to the issue of employment. Mr Vos has spoken to me in support of the existing permits, for which I am grateful. I have also responded to the issue of employment in Vlissingen, Den Helder and the Eemshaven. I believe that there are great opportunities for these regions. There are also very good companies that can take advantage of these opportunities. I will certainly also take advantage of my opportunities to support them and work with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u217	I had added another point about speculative bidding. In the past, speculation has occurred on wind farms at sea. Does the Minister intend to take measures to prevent this from happening in the future, in order to prevent the granting of a licence when the implementation cannot take place in a timely, inadequate or even at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u218	Can I come back to that in a second term or at a later occasion? It seems to me to be an important point. I will see if I can provide an adequate response to this question tonight. I come to Mr Bosman. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation to Mr Bosman. I think he was only told yesterday that he had to do this debate. I really appreciate how he picked it up like that. He talked about cost reduction as a condition. That's how I see it. Those ten times 0.5% a year that we have to take off, we record. The market promised to achieve this cost reduction in ten years. If that does not happen, then we cannot grant a subsidy. Mr Bosman wondered whether this law would not anticipate the establishment of the sites. That is not the case. That's what's happening in the Water Plan. However, it is fair to say to the Chamber that I am on a duty to do something. I have my idea how to do it. I made a commitment to the Chamber on IJmuiden Ver. I just went into that. I will keep that promise. If there is clarity and if the outcome takes me off my point of view, I will tell the Chamber what the new position is and how I intend to achieve it. If that is not the case, however, I will continue with what I am doing now. Mr Bosman also addressed the possible damage suffered by a windmill operator if TenneT is late. In response to other spokesmen, I have already discussed this in detail. That is all I have to say, Madam President. I had you...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u219	Amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u220	...promised an hour and a half, but it's gotten a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u221	I still have one more question. Perhaps this will save a second-term motion. How exactly is the STROOM legislative process going? STROOM is extremely important to be able to roll out winds at sea. Is it gonna be in the room in time? It is a rather complicated legislative process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u222	I have no delay with regard to STROOM to report. It's no different than what I've communicated to the Chamber before. Actually, I should know exactly when STROOM is coming to the Chamber. We have to do that through the Council of State first. Can I come back to that in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u223	Of course you can. I have the hope and expectation that STROOM will come to the Chamber before the summer, so that we can deal with it in good time and enter it next year. If this does not work, I suggest that parts of the legislative process be removed and sent to the Chamber as a legislative proposal, so that we are not delayed in terms of wind at sea. Perhaps that is not necessary at all and we will get the bill without further delay in the Chamber. Of course, that would be the most beautiful thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u224	I was already pleased with Mrs Dik-Faber's input. With what she's saying here right now, I'm totally happy. I really need the cooperation of the Chamber in order to deal with these matters smoothly. Mrs Dik-Faber declared her willingness to grant it. That's important to me. Soon I'll come back to the exact moment we arrive with STROOM. I hope that Mrs Dik-Faber's attitude will become the attitude of the Chamber as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u225	Is the Minister still going to deal with the amendments in the first place?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u226	Yeah, I just asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u227	Okay, fine. I had a small question, but maybe it's a little technical. If, therefore, it is answered in second time, I think that is excellent. The question was whether it had legal consequences which could lead to administrative burdens, which would reduce the cost benefits if a wind farm was partly built outside and partly within the exclusive economic zone. Would the Minister like to take another look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u228	Yes. I have looked at this and can reply briefly: no, this does not lead to additional costs. This is a bit short, for which I apologize. Is it good that I now respond to the amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u229	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u230	Mrs Dik-Faber has, through the amendment to item No. 11 that the possibility of amending or withdrawing an authorisation should be withdrawn in the event of a change in the marketing authorisation holder's financial capacity. If the marketing authorisation holder's technical or financial capabilities change, I can withdraw the authorisation according to the current legislative proposal. Mrs Dik-Faber believes that I should not have that possibility, because it creates uncertainty. The first paragraph of Article 17 does indeed provide for the possibility of amending or withdrawing a licence. If a licence is applied for, we will check whether the application is technically, economically and financially feasible. If that is not the case, the application shall be rejected. This seems to me right away to be a reaction to Mr Vos, who does not want people to speculate about something that they cannot achieve at all, which delays us in achieving our objectives. In order to avoid this, we can test the application both technically, economically and financially. If necessary, we shall be advised. That way we can separate the chaff from the chaff. I shall continue with my response to Mrs Dik-Faber's amendment. If at a later date it appears that the holder of the authorisation is unable to keep the technical aspects of his wind farm in order or is in financial difficulties, this Article provides the possibility to amend or withdraw the authorisation in the extreme. Of course, financiers are not happy about that at all. Apart from the fact that at the beginning we release a test to check whether this is technically and financially correct in our opinion, financiers will also check it out. So the likelihood of such a thing happening is not great. Moreover, I will use my powers very reluctantly. However, I do not want to completely deny that competence. Something may occur, which makes it desirable for the public interest to make use of this possibility. I say to Mrs Dik-Faber that I will use it very reluctantly. Mrs Dik-Faber's amendment, which completely deprives me of this possibility, I do not recommend.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u231	In part No. 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u232	In part No. 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u233	Mrs Dik-Faber has another question on the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u234	I do have a brief question for the Minister. I understand what he is saying, but I believe that this article creates a lot of uncertainty for investors and, unfortunately, the Minister can already withdraw a permit on the basis of Article 15 and Article 17........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This article of law is therefore in addition to the possibilities that the Minister already has. Since this creates uncertainty, I wonder whether we should delete it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u235	The idea at the market is not that there is uncertainty. The idea at the market is that the Dutch government knows very well what it wants, that it has made the money available for it, that it has great support for it, both politically and in society, and that it has also set a very logical line. So there is not the idea in the market that there is uncertainty at this point. We're doing a review and the financiers are doing a review. I make a commitment to Mrs Dik-Faber and to the Chamber that I will use this opportunity very reluctantly, but I do not think it would be desirable to complete the procedure. That's why I don't recommend the motion. We, as legislators, should not take away that possibility. In the amendment to item No. 12 Ms Dik-Faber stated that the possibility of amending or withdrawing an authorisation should be abolished if the SDE+ grant has been withdrawn. Article 17 (1) provides for the possibility of withdrawing the licence in such a case. If the SDE+ grant from a wind farm has been withdrawn, this may be reason to change or withdraw the permit. If that possibility is deleted, that means I can't re-tend that lot. If there is a problem and the SDE+ grant has to be withdrawn, I also want to be able to withdraw the licence. If I can't, it's still there. And I can't have it quieting. I gotta go. I must have those windmills running there in good time, which is why I want to have the opportunity to withdraw or change the permit and then allow another to realize the windmill park via a tender. That is why I do not recommend the Dik-Faber amendment to item No. 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u236	From the perspective of the importance that we both attach to the realisation of wind farms at sea, I can fully follow the Minister. However, withdrawal of a subsidy may have many causes, including those which are outside the scope of the authorisation holder's influence. Isn't it inappropriate governance to say as a government that the subsidy is no longer there, then we're also going to withdraw the permit? And would this eventually stand in court? Those are my legal questions about this article. In substance, I agree with the Minister, but I think that there are some legal comments to be made here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u237	Yes, Mrs Dik-Faber is right about that. If we were to do it in an irresponsible way, there would be inappropriate governance, for example, if it were our fault that we withdraw a subsidy and it was not the party that received the subsidy that was to be blamed, and then we would withdraw the licence. But of course we're not gonna do that. I'm very happy if someone's been honored with a plan with a grant commitment. I would also very much like him to realise that plan, but if we see that it is not going well and we have to withdraw the permit under the SDE+ conditions, we will do so. We must be able to justify ourselves, of course, even to the courts, but if we can do this responsibly, I do not want to worry about the fact that the licence has then continued to run. Then we were able to withdraw the SDE+ grant commitment with justice, but then we still have that permit. In that case, I would also like to be able to withdraw the licence. I do not think that we think differently. Perhaps this amendment is not recommended for Mrs Dik-Faber to withdraw it. I'll wait and see. I come to the amendment to item No. 13 by Mrs Mulder. She doesn't want lots in the stretch between the coast and 12 miles away. I have already said that this bill does not regulate exactly where the windmills are going to be. This bill is neutral in terms of locations. It doesn't rule out one and it doesn't rule out the other. We'll arrange things that will allow us to pinpoint the locations in the National Water Plan. I'll give the Chamber some clarity about my commitment. The Chamber is now crystal clear, I think. However, I am open to going through the procedures that need to be carried out in a proper and careful manner. I will do the same in the development of the amendment to the National Water Plan. So I do not think it is right to table this amendment to this law at the moment. That is why I do not recommend the amendment. The amendment in part No. Mrs Van Tongeren's 15 concerns the existing permits. It does not want it to expire until the first Lot Decision has become final. I can't get out of my way with the existing permits. The ambition to achieve 14% by 2020 and 16% by 2023 can only be achieved through the roadmap I set out, with 10 and 12 miles and IJmuiden Ver still following what I have just explained. At least I can't get rid of the existing permits. We have been working on the existing permits since 2009. I've already ruled it out for the SDE+ 2014. I have spoken with those concerned about the costs that they have had to incur in this context and the fees that have been paid for them. I've completed those talks. I advise the Chamber not to leave those permits hanging over the market any longer. On this basis, I would advise against the amendment to item No. 15. I do not rule out the possibility that Mrs Van Tongeren and I could agree, because I might also be right once in a while, I say to her. Maybe in that case, I'll get it from her, too. In the amendment to item No. 17, tabled by Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mrs Ouwehand, provides that local authorities should be able to appeal against the Lot Decree. Article 8 of the Bill declares Chapter 1, Section 2 of the Crisis and Recovery Act applicable to a Lot Decision. This means that the accelerated procedures apply and local authorities cannot appeal against decisions. Through the European directive, we have been given a task of achieving renewable energy. We are very much behind in this respect in other countries. That is constantly being rubbed under my nose in the Chamber. We have to catch up. We have an ambition. We have concluded the Economic and Social Committee agreement with all those concerned. This means that we need the provisions of the Crisis and Recovery Act in order to achieve the required pace. The amendment in part No. 17, which is intended to give local authorities the right of appeal, is not in line with this. My starting point is that governments should not sue against each other, but should try to reach an agreement through consultation. I'll keep trying. However, I do not want to delay the transition to renewable energy. I would like to take advantage of the possibilities offered by the Crisis and Recovery Act. I therefore recommend that the amendment be rejected in respect of item No 1 of the motion for a resolution. 17. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 18, tabled by Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mrs Ouwehand. The purpose of this amendment is to limit the scope for derogations from the Flora and fauna law. I would advise against this amendment. I think it is desirable to apply only the European rules on protection under the Birds and Habitats Directives. They provide a good level of protection. This bill provides for this. There is another bill pending before the Chamber which removes the national head of the Flora and fauna law. In accordance with this, the same thing is happening in this bill. The amendment in part No. 18 the aim is to put the national head back on top of it. That's not what I want. The amendment also introduces an additional test, which requires us not only to check in advance when taking a lot decision whether there is no other solution but, in specific cases, to review whether there is no other alternative. That's the national headline. I don't think this is right. This is also contrary to the amendment of the Nature Protection Act, in which the national head also goes off. That is why I reject the amendment to item No. 18.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u238	The Minister said earlier in the reply that nothing of the Nature Conservation Act was excluded by Article 5. Now he's basically saying he's up to this. If I compare Article 4 with the articles that are excluded in Article 5, I see that the current Nature Protection Act is not fully incorporated into it. What is stated in Article 19d (2) and (3), namely that you can carry out actions necessary for the management plan, for example, can no longer be done. That is not included in Article 4. So I do not think that the entire protection of the current legislation is included in Article 4 and the protection under the Lot Decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u239	In the beginning, I said that the relevant European directives for Natura 2000 sites are being respected. All procedures and any considerations applicable to them shall be followed and made. This is about the head of the Flora and fauna law. What do we do with that? The cabinet has already submitted a bill for the protection of nature to the Chamber in which that head is removed. That's what the coalition agreement says. It would be strange for me to be associated in this legislative proposal, where all these things such as the Lot Decision, the licensing and the grant commitment are linked and the relevant conditions are linked, to do something else. It makes sense, then, to act now in accordance with the other legislative proposal that we have made to the Chamber. That's what we're doing now. This is nothing but bringing the bill into line with nature conservation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u240	Under the Nature Protection Act, you cannot just do damage in Natura 2000 sites. You have to prove that there are no other options. In fact, what is expressed here is something that is also covered by the current Nature Protection Act. I simply note that Article 4 does not fully cover what is excluded in Article 5. I think the Minister's just saying that this is the intention. Perhaps this could be resolved already if Article 4 states that the damage must be prevented, as referred to in Article 19d (1), (2) and (3). I believe that we will then ensure a complete transplantation of what is excluded from Article 5, because it is included in the Lot Decision, into the real protection under that Lot Decision. In that case, we will not change at all what is in the current legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u241	I don't think that's true, but I'll take another look at that in a minute. I shall come back to that in the second term, if necessary. But the line is as follows: what is stated in the relevant European directives on nature conservation, we are fully implementing. Those procedures are being followed and nothing is being done about that in this bill. The national headline on the Flora and fauna law is taken off by the bill of nature protection that lies with the Chamber. In this bill, we are doing exactly the same thing as in that bill. Those two proposals are in line with each other. Mrs Van Veldhoven said that attention still needs to be paid to this. I shall look at it again in a moment and come back to it in a second term. If I don't, it's like I just said. Then I will stick to my opinion, namely that I should like to amend item No. 18 detachment. I now turn to the amendment to item No. 19 by Mrs Ouwehand. It says that the quality of the measures to prevent damage to flora and fauna should be one of the ranking criteria for authorisation without subsidies. The amendment adds a ranking criterion in the event of the non-subsidised authorisation procedure being applied. The measures to be applied by a marketing authorisation holder to prevent damage to flora and fauna shall be included in the Lot Decision. So we take a lot decision and we attach to it conditions to ensure that damage to flora and fauna is prevented. I have already mentioned mitigation measures rather than compensatory measures. The addition of this ranking criterion will also require rules on the measures to be attached to the authorisation. However, we have arranged this through the Lot Decision. If the Chamber were to do what Mrs Ouwehand says, the lot decision and the permit would run through each other. This breaks through the system of the bill and has no added value. That is why I do not recommend the amendment to item No 2 of the motion for a resolution. 19 by Mrs Ouwehand. Madam President, can you give me a two-minute suspension? I would like to discuss one of the amendments. I'll get back to you in a minute. Is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u242	Yeah, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u243	Thank you for the short suspension, Madam President. It has not given me new insights, so I can conclude my contribution in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u244	Mrs Mulder asked for a letter in her first term. I understand the letter is with the Chamber. That is why I propose that we suspend for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u245	Thank you for coming to the Chamber this evening, because otherwise we might have had to go a long way tomorrow. I would like a moment to read the letter and I would like to proceed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u246	Do I understand from this that you think 15 minutes is too short?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u247	Depends if he's here already.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u248	Fine. If the letter calls for more time, I'll take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u249	We shall begin with the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u250	Mr. Chairman. As has been said, no form of energy generation has any drawbacks. The need to distance ourselves from fossil fuels and to switch to truly renewable energy sources such as sun, wind and water is great. In this respect, we support the government's ambition to work on wind energy, but it is still difficult for this government to do very little about energy saving, but it is prepared to weaken the protection of the already fragile nature in the North Sea in order to set up windmills there. We believe that nature in the North Sea deserves protection in itself, and we call on the government to do so seriously and thus to designate areas such as the Borkumse Stones as a marine reserve, to comply with the OSPAR Convention and to minimise the effects of windmills at sea on nature. Having listened to the Minister's answers, we are not quite sure yet. That's why I'm filing a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the installation of windmills at sea can cause a lot of noise that has a negative impact on underwater life;]] [[noting that Germany has set an upper limit to the level of underwater noise which may be produced as a maximum during the installation of windmills;]] [[noting that this cabinet is still examining the possibility of such a noise standard being included in the framework of ecology and cumulation to be developed;]] [[calls on the Government, like Germany, to include an underwater noise cap in the framework of ecology and cumulation for wind energy at sea,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34058-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u251	I have also asked for mitigation measures to be taken at all times in the possible impact of windmills on Natura 2000 sites. The Minister has said something reassuring about this, but we are not quite satisfied yet. I'm filing a motion to record this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the installation of wind turbines at sea may have a significant impact on Natura 2000 sites;]] [[calls on the Government to opt for mitigation measures in the event of possible significant impacts of windmills on Natura 2000 sites at sea,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34058-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u252	Then the leak of heavy metals from the windmills into the water. The Minister wasn't worried about that. He said: if it is, then a permit must be issued under the Water Act. We think it would be better to include it directly in the permit conditions and the subsidy scheme. Today, the German institute warned about the consequences. So the Germans seem to be leading the way in making wind energy possible and effectively protecting nature. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that windmills with anti-rust anodes can cause substances such as aluminium, zinc and other heavy metals to gradually dissolve into water;]] [[noting that there are techniques to protect steel without the release of these toxic metals;]] [[Whereas heavy metals should not enter the environment;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the regulations and the subsidy scheme for offshore wind energy the use of less polluting ways to prevent rust from windmills,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34058-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u253	The Minister will say: that costs more money. That's right. We have a game for that if we stop spending the SDE+ money on ways of generating energy that are actually carrying water to the sea. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a large proportion of the SDE+ funds are spent on the production of biogas from animal manure;]] [[Considering that manure production is a major waste of energy, with 62 petajoule per year lost to livestock feed production alone, equivalent to the annual energy needs of 5 million households in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that the fermentation of manure itself produces very little energy;]] [[calls on the Government to adapt the SDE+ scheme so that manure digesters are no longer eligible for subsidies and the funds released can be spent, inter alia, on (innovation in) wind energy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34058-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u254	Finally, Mr President. The Minister did not want to broaden the debate. The Party for Animals always does. The need to combat global warming, including by focusing on renewable energy, is vital, but we are not going to make it with just windmills. We really need to save, save, save, also because of the argument that any kind of energy generation has disadvantages. Therefore, this motion to support the Minister. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that significant energy savings can be achieved through the Environmental Management Act, which can force public authorities to use the best available techniques;]] [[noting that enforcement of the Environmental Management Act is inadequate in this respect;]] [[calls on the government to put the Environmental Management Act in place, for example by investing this task in the Environmental and Transport Inspection,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34058-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u255	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers he has given to all the first-term questions. I also congratulate the Minister on the speed with which he wants to catch wind at sea. My group greatly appreciates this and we are happy to support it. I will therefore give my group a positive opinion on the legislative proposal. We have just received a further justification for the cost reduction by the choice for TenneT. Indeed, that letter gives us more insight, even though I read a number of assumptions in the letter. There is still a study on the amounts and that means that we have to keep a close eye on each other's wrists. I do not entirely agree with the Minister on a number of points. In any case, I will not withdraw my amendments, but put them to the vote. I shall also read out a few motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas priority should be given to the transition from fossil energy to clean energy;]] [[considers that extraction of fossil fuels, such as oil and gas extraction, should not hinder the roll-out of wind energy at sea;]] [[calls on the Government to apply the principle of "priority for sustainable" in the use of marine space in the National Water Plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34058-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u256	The Minister has expressly stated that it is also his intention to roll out winds at sea. So he has spoken a certain direction, but with this motion I am also really trying to anchor the principle in the National Water Plan. My second motion concerns the SDE+ scheme. D66 will also table a motion on this subject, which we will probably be supporting. My point is that the SDE+ is used every time for things that do not directly contribute to the transition to renewable energy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Sustainable Energy Production Incentive Scheme (SDE+) aims to stimulate the production of clean and renewable energy and that it is fed through a levy on the energy account;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet has decided to financially compensate the holders of existing licences for incurred costs due to the withdrawal of the licences;]] [[calls on the Government not to use the SDE+ for purposes other than scaling up and achieving clean energy and to propose a different coverage for the compensation for energy companies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34058-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u257	My final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the best possible use should be made of the opportunities for responsible co-use within the fields of wind energy at sea;]] [[considers that the early involvement of the shipping sector and the fisheries sector leads to the reduction of the disadvantages of lot decisions;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with stakeholders on co-use of the North Sea at an early stage when developing the lot decisions and to make proposals to minimise the damage or improve co-use,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34058-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u258	I brought this into the debate and the Minister responded to it. He said he wants to talk to the other users. That was exactly what was also in the answers to the questions asked by the Christian Union Group. I hear, however, from the point of view of practice, that the sector is struggling to conduct the consultation properly and to put forward its position properly. The aim is to involve the sector at the front of the consultation process and to assess the damage caused to the sector and what measures could be taken to minimise this damage. That doesn't go well. That is why I have tabled this motion; I hope the House will support it. My final motion is the motion I will not table. This motion is about the law trail STROOM. I really hope that the bill will be sent to the Chamber soon, so that this will not delay further the wind energy at sea Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u259	Mr. Chairman. Since the debate on gas extraction in Groningen, Mr Bosman has been such a familiar face in our midst that we have completely forgotten to welcome him. To this end, I would like to welcome you. Wind at sea is going to make a very important contribution to our sustainable energy supply. To this end, this law is an important step. However, we are not yet here. We must try to place the parks as cleverly as possible. This includes the participation of coastal communities. It also includes that we try to keep the impact on nature as small as possible. I have tabled amendments to that effect. The Minister is actually pre-empting a law that has not even been dealt with by the Chamber. At the moment, we should simply stick to what is in the current law. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government is considering allowing wind farms in the territorial sea, within the 12 mile zone;]] [[Whereas it is recommended in the SMEA which the government has commissioned on this subject that further consideration should be given to the areas in which the risks of social disadvantages outweighing the cost benefits are greatest, and the impact on employment and the economy of coastal communities;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate these matters further and to send the results to the Chamber at the latest before the planned decision on the locations of the wind farms,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Veldhoven and Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34058-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u260	By linking this investigation to the deadline for the submission of the proposed decision, this should not lead to any additional delay. It does make the decision-making process extremely careful. My second motion has everything to do with the importance for the Chamber to have good information on the figures and the facts. We also saw in this debate that it is very important to have those figures on paper before the debate, otherwise we will have to ask again during the debate for a letter where it all stands. This also leads to additional work in such a debate in support of the Minister. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government intends to have TenneT implement the deployment of a network at sea;]] [[Whereas the costs of setting up and maintaining the network at sea will be passed on to the customers of energy, with the government considering charging it not only through network charges but also through the SDE+;]] [[Whereas it is still unclear what the effects of the proposed cost recovery are;]] [[calls on the Government to send to the Court an overview of the effects of the proposed cost recovery well before the examination of STROOM with at least the following information:]] [[the financial impact on households and businesses of a cost settlement via the SDE+ compared to a cost settlement via the network charges;]] [[the impact of an SDE+ cost adjustment on the SDE+ budget available for renewable energy objectives and the potential impact on the share of renewable energy that can be achieved with the current envisaged budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Veldhoven, Dik-Faber, Agnes Mulder, Van Tongeren, Smaling and Klever.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34058-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u261	My final point is this. During the debate, the Minister seemed to have extended the duration of the Energy Agreement to 2026. However, in the letter he just sent us, he states that by the end of 2023 the price must have fallen to €0,09 per kWh. In addition to what the Minister told us during the debate, I ask him how he is going to achieve this cost savings up to €0.009 per 2023, because this is different from the schedule he sent us in his previous letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u262	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the bill for wind at sea seems to fall mainly on households and that the Minister wishes to spare energy-intensive companies;]] [[Whereas large consumers should contribute to the energy transition according to consumption and capacity;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Court of a number of representative sample users of the distribution of electricity costs between small consumers and large consumers, the impact of the distribution of costs of the network at sea, the volume correction of network charges and the abolition of the coal tax on power plants on this distribution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is important for public acceptance and accountability that there is full transparency about the estimated costs for the network at sea;]] [[requests the Government to inform the Chamber of the total investment costs and operational costs of the network at sea and of the network to the first lot of Borssele,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren and Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34058-32]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Tongeren, Agnes Mulder, Van Veldhoven, Ouwehand, Klever and Dik-Faber.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34058-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u263	I thank the Minister for answering the questions and for the further commitments. From GroenLinks there is also support for the speed with which the minister tries to achieve wind at sea. It may be pitiful, but I do have a question about the letter. If you count the 2014 prices, everything is in place in that 30 billion, including the connection to the country. In the energy agreement, before TenneT came into play, it was already agreed that there would be a 40% reduction. Saying that 3 billion is now being saved because of the fact that TenneT is joining, I do not think this calculation is possible. It was never said when the energy agreement was negotiated that it would cost 30 billion at any time. It was said immediately: we are going to take 40% off it. Inside that 30 billion is that old-fashioned, straight line already included. Perhaps the Minister will be able to deal with this now or at another time. The reason I am making such a point about this is that I am afraid that at some point, perhaps under another government, it is said "you see, that 40% is not being achieved, this is all going to be far too expensive" and it is then delayed, or that it is too unclear for the investment parties what their costs will be for the connection of the grid at sea. If that is never more than €0.015 net cost, then the Minister will hear nothing from me and I will not go on saying that the 3 billion is not fully substantiated as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u264	Mr. Chairman. The Minister wanted to move forward, and that is understandable. "Don't zero," they call it, I believe in the East of the Netherlands, if you want to hurry up and don't want to be hindered too much left and right. That is also a good thing. It's still tricky. We are, of course, talking about a large amount of money, and we all agree on that. An investment is never entirely risk-free, but by holding the debate on this, we are getting a clear picture of how the risks should be interpreted. Wind at sea offers considerable opportunities for entrepreneurial Netherlands, that is clear. Employment opportunities are high. I'd like to name three more cases. We attach great importance to the fact that residents in the seaside resorts are still being heard about and involved in the final planning. We also attach great importance to the natural values. We assume that it will have no chance of success if the Bird Protection, a bat protection or any organization would start a case against the Empire, because the case has been waterproofed. Finally, I have a question about the entrepreneurs and the development of expertise that is needed. Does the Minister leave this largely to companies themselves? Or is he sufficiently aware of this within the framework of the technical pact itself and has sufficient incentives himself to link the roc's with internships, for example, or through learning companies to these companies? Can universities and HBOs also have access to these companies, so that we do not all have to attract people from abroad to fill these vacancies? The Minister has somewhat swept away the risks. He thinks it's all well-protected. I've asked about DELTA, and the same goes for Eneco to some extent. Those organizations are in divisional issues. When a split occurs, the ratings of those companies fall to a level at which you face some risk. Will these companies be able to take away the green electricity from the wind farms? I'd like to get a response to that. I have two motions for resolutions on matters close to the heart of my group. They have to do with the contributions of the less well-off people in this country to this whole process. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the success of wind at sea depends heavily on the rate of growth of sustainable and fossil energy prices;]] [[calls on the Government to report annually explicitly on how it steers the demand for and supply of the different categories of energy with legal and tax incentives in order to reduce the price gap as quickly as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a substantial proportion of the Dutch population is struggling to make a financial contribution;]] [[noting that it is often people who would like to switch wholeheartedly to renewable energy, including electricity generated by windmills at sea;]] [[calls on the government to spare this population from the annual purchasing power corrections when the sum of the net energy tax and the SDE+ contribution becomes too large a financial barrier,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34058-34]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34058-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u265	To sum up, my group is in favour of the legislative proposal, but the last motion in particular is very heavy for me. I therefore hope that the Minister will be able to give a positive opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u266	I have a question on Mr Smaling's last motion. It is not just the energy tax and the SDE+ tax that are going up. As we have understood, energy prices and network costs will also increase. Shouldn't Mr. Smaling look at the entire energy bill in his concern for the people with a small wallet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u267	Yeah, yeah, yeah, I also said in the first term that you should actually look more integratedly at how the costs of energy, taxation and SDE+ relate to each other. All three of them will be on our energy bill. I am concerned that the total of less tax rebate is not burdensome for people with a small wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u268	My point is that the SDE+ tax falls as energy prices rise, but everyone pays the same amount on balance. So if you just ask for the SDE+ tax and the energy tax, that doesn't mean anything, because with rising energy prices, the tax goes down but people pay more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u269	Yes, but you can see that the SDE+ price for consumers has risen sharply in recent years. In 2016, that price quadrupled compared to 2013. I must therefore turn now to the current situation. The energy price is very fluid and therefore not very predictable, as Mrs Klever and I both know. I find it difficult to prelude to that. I am now putting it in such a way that the Minister understands that there must be some sort of upper limit to what people with a small wallet have to pay for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u270	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for this comprehensive letter. He really helped us get on with it. This letter makes it clear that the old costs of 4 to 6 billion for the net were at sea. A saving of EUR 3 billion is being achieved. Thank you for this clarity. I do have one more question. Suppose we would receive signals from the sector that it could be even cheaper than the €0.02, what would the Minister want to do with that? Is there anything else the Minister could do with that if we passed this law tomorrow? Can we now also see that the network costs are up to €0,015 per kWh for the construction of these 3,500 MW? I would like to receive a response from the Minister on this point. I also have a question about the EUR 4 to 6 billion. What's the difference? Is that the ver- or near option, IJmuiden Ver or within the 12 mile zone? I would like to have an explanation on this point. If it were 4 billion, would you still make the cost savings of 3 billion? I think the Minister and I are not agreeing on the construction of wind farms within the 12 mile zone. The CDA is in favour of doing that outside the 12 mile zone. We hope that the mid-term review in 2016 will lead to different insights, including with this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u271	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his clear answer, even if this was after some pressure on my part. It would be nice if he would do so in writing from now on. If I ask for subsidies for all windmill plans in the energy agreement, one thing is clear: that is not 5.5 billion, but much more. I must also note that just one day after Mr Leegte's departure, the VVD also abandons its requirement of 40% reduction in costs. The wind farm at Borssele, which is being tendered this year, only reduces costs by 3%. That is a pity, because it makes the taxpayer and the hard-working entrepreneur unnecessary for costs. Let's be clear. The PVV is the only party with an eye for the people with a small wallet and hardworking entrepreneurs at the beach and at sea. That is why we are voting against this Law on wind energy at sea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u272	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the comprehensive answer to the first-term questions. It is admirable how many questions we can ask as Chambers, but it is equally admirable and perhaps even more admirable how the Minister tries to answer all these questions, including the letter we have just received, for which we are grateful. I understand that the difference between the 10 mile zone and the 12 mile zone is 1.2 billion, if I have understood correctly during the Minister's speech. Of course, that's a lot of money. I cannot support the CDA motion in terms of 1.2 billion. If the CDA does, I ask the CDA once again: provide me with the cover and tell me where you are going to get the 1.2 billion. That seems to me to be so fair to the Dutch citizen. I would ask the Minister once again to take seriously the concerns of all the inhabitants of that coastal province and, where possible, to respond to them. Furthermore, I wish him every success. I will follow him closely in the timely and appropriate roll-out of the agreements contained in the coalition agreement and the energy agreement, as he himself put it so neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u273	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for the broad answer to the questions. This bill is a step in implementing the energy agreement. Indeed, the Minister is taking this very seriously. I look forward to further treatment of STROOM. Not only with this minister, but also with these colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u274	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The Minister needs a short five-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u275	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the motion in part No. 22 by Mrs Ouwehand, calling on the government to include, like Germany, an upper limit for underwater noise in the framework of ecology and cumulation for wind energy at sea. I have already promised that measures will be included in the lot decisions against the underwater noises caused by the mooring. Those measures should not be included in the framework of ecology and cumulation but in the Lot Decisions. So I see the point of underwater noises. I also think that there should be something for that. I'm coming up with something, too. I link that to the lot decisions, but do not do so within the framework of ecology and cumulation. Although there is no difference of opinion in substance, given the text of the motion, I advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u276	Mrs Ouwehand, short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u277	Then I wonder if the Minister himself thinks it is efficient. Does this mean that every lot decision will have the same upper limit? Or is it not more convenient to record this in one framework? Or does the Minister take the space for himself to deviate per lot and determine what sound is allowed per lot?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u278	The framework ecology and cumulation is a first step that we need to take in order to make it work. So we develop a framework and then we find out which things are important and what you want to do about it. If you want to make that hard, you do it by linking it to the lot decision. That framework will probably show that this issue needs to be addressed. I'm sure of that. Next, I will link that point to the Lot Decision as a condition. In my view, the choice made by Mrs Ouwehand to include it in that framework is not the right choice. I believe that it should be laid down in the Lot Decision every time, if this is the result of the analysis in the framework of ecology and cumulation. That's probably what I think. In the motion in part No. 23 Ms Ouwehand asked the government to opt for mitigation measures in case of possible significant effects of windmills on Natura 2000 sites at sea. I told you, I intend to do that. I want to do it through mitigation measures. That is why I leave this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u279	It's a handwritten motion. That hardly happens anymore, Mrs. Ouwehand. It's pretty, though.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u280	Mrs Ouwehand has a net writing and can do so. In the motion in part No. 24 calls on Mrs Ouwehand to include in the regulations and the subsidy scheme for wind at sea the use of less polluting ways to prevent rust from windmills. When deciding on lots, it will be considered which harmful substances may be released into the environment. If that is necessary, we will take action in that lot decision, and will also be subject to conditions. That is nothing but what Mrs Ouwehand's motion states. If Mrs Ouwehand agrees with the explanation I am giving, I will also leave this motion to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u281	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u282	In the motion in part No. 25 Ms Ouwehand pointed out that the government had to adapt the SDE+ scheme so that manure digesters would not be involved. I'm not willing to do that. This is one of the ways in which you can produce renewable energy in the Netherlands. This is also in line with the European directive. I therefore advise against this motion. In the, again handwritten, movement on piece No. 26 Mrs Ouwehand writes that the government is asked to put the enforcement of the Environmental Management Act in order, for example by investing this task in the Inspection Environment and Transport. In the energy agreement, we have already agreed to strengthen the enforcement of the Environmental Management Act. I also talked to the Chamber about how I intend to do that. I therefore consider this motion by Mrs Ouwehand to be superfluous. That's why I'm betraying her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u283	I filed that motion to give the Minister a little support. Enforcement is indeed in the energy agreement, but has gone to the municipalities. There enforcement does not have the highest priority, given the decentralisations. It would just be more efficient. Hence the proposal. It is in line with what the Minister wants to do under the energy agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u284	It is enshrined in the Energy Agreement. I've already promised the Chamber. I do not agree at all with Mrs Ouwehand's assertion that we are doing incredibly little about energy saving. That's not true at all. We are doing a great deal of energy saving. We are also very motivated. We are now also working on further details in the Heat Vision. We tighten the covenants. We come with customization. We accept the target of 1.5% more energy saving per year. I therefore disagree with Mrs Ouwehand's approach. Given what I've already promised, I find her motion superfluous. That was the motion in part No. 26. In the motion in part No. 27 Ms Dik-Faber asked the government to apply the principle of "priority for sustainable" in the use of space at sea in the National Water Plan. She's just trying to push it a little too hard. I have already said that, according to the National Water Plan, oil and gas extraction and wind energy are of equal national importance. For me, however, the first priority is the challenge of transition to renewable energy and the achievement of my objective for wind at sea. That was what I could say, given everything that has already been laid down. I don't want to take another step. Although there is actually no big difference of opinion, it is a bit created with this motion. I'm gonna dissuade her. Perhaps Mrs. Dik-Faber could withdraw the motion. I'd like to leave that consideration to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u285	The minister says there's no big difference of opinion. That could be true, because the Minister has also made it very clear that he absolutely wants to roll out the wind farms at sea. That's the intention. But what is the obstacle to truly anchoring "priority for sustainable" in the National Water Plan? I don't see the obstruction. If the starting point is to work with wind at sea and to go to clean energy, then that is the future and then it should have priority. I think the Minister wants that, too. What's his obstruction?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u286	We are now at 4.5%, almost 5% renewable energy. We have to do a lot to get to 14% and then 16%. In the meantime, we have to make sure that we keep the business going in our country. So we still need a lot of fossil energy. We currently have a retreating movement in our surroundings, in the Chamber and in the Cabinet as regards gas extraction in Groningen. In order to meet the needs of society, oil and gas extraction in the North Sea is of national importance. I don't really want to be sidelined in that. It is not in the National Water Plan now and I do not want to include it in the amended version. I did say what I could say about it. That might actually be enough. If Mrs Dik-Faber wants to push me a little further, I will put my heels in the sand and say: this motion, which goes even further than I have already said, I do not know. In the motion in part No. 28 Ms Dik-Faber asked the government not to use the SDE+ scheme for other purposes. The holders of the existing licences should therefore not receive the compensation of more than 7 million. I think it should come out of there. I really think it is part of the cost we have to make of renewable energy at sea, to realize the wind farms at sea. This is part of the total cost that we should reasonably incur. So I advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 29 Ms Dik-Faber asked the government to consult with stakeholders at an early stage when developing lot decisions and to make proposals to minimise the damage or improve co-use. We're already in conversation with all the stakeholders. However, I do not think that the Court's ruling on this point is meaningless. I shall therefore leave Mrs Dik-Faber's motion to the Chamber. Mrs Dik-Faber asked about STROOM's timetable. I expect the bill back from the Council of State at any moment. Then there is a second discussion in the cabinet. So I'm gonna do my best to submit it to the Chamber in April, but otherwise it's gonna be the beginning of May. I would like the Chamber to deal with it before the summer recess, because then I can handle it properly in the First Chamber after the summer recess and I can bring the law into force as of 1 January 2016. Mrs Dik-Faber rightly said that it is of the utmost importance to realise the ambition of STROOM. I do my best to send the bill to the Chamber as soon as possible and I appreciate it if the Chamber follows Mrs Dik-Faber's example and ensures that the Chamber can deal with the bill as soon as possible, for which I thank you in advance. Through the motion in part No. 30 Ms Van Veldhoven asked the government to investigate matters further and to send the results to the Chamber at the latest before the planned decision on the locations of the wind farms. She talks about the SME, where five locations were compared. Of those five locations, we've only taken two. I don't want to put the other three in the picture anymore, because I don't think it's appropriate. I also believe that Mrs Van Veldhoven does not want that. If she only wants me to look into certain things in accordance with the terms of the SMEA for the two areas I have chosen, namely the North-Holland coast and the South-Holland coast, I will leave the vote to the House. Through the motion in part No. 31 Ms Van Veldhoven asked the government to provide the Chamber for the treatment of STROOM with an overview of the consequences of the proposed cost recovery. The point is that we want to build the network at sea and to charge it to end-users via TenneT tariffs. I said I'm going to see if I can't do it through an SDE+ grant to TenneT, so I can keep the initial cost allocation. That is what the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has advocated. Mrs Van Veldhoven says she wants to see how the choice I have made will work out and how it should be worked out. I understand that it is her intention that I pass it on to groups of representative sample users, as I cannot pass it on to everyone and everything. That is why I leave this motion to the Chamber. Through the motion in part No. 32 Mrs Van Tongeren asked the government to inform the Chamber of again those representative users of the cost sharing and the impact of the cost sharing of the network at sea, the volume adjustment of network tariffs and the abolition of the coal tax on power plants on this distribution. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. If this is what the Chamber wants, I can take care of it. Mrs Van Tongeren also asked about the distribution of the 30 billion. The original amount that we believe could cost at sea amounts to 40% over time, which brings you to the other amounts we have talked about. An important part of this cost reduction is achieved by TenneT. If TenneT did not do so, but the operators of the wind farms themselves would also be able to achieve a reduction in costs, but I believe that the present proposal will allow for a maximum reduction in costs. I understand that this can be supported by the Chamber, including Mrs Van Tongeren. So here we are taking out what can be taken out of it to the maximum, and we are thus contributing to the maximum reduction of costs in total. Mr. Smaling...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u287	What's your verdict on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u288	This is not a motion, Madam President. This was a question or a question. Mr Van Tongeren's comments were made at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u289	The Minister made a brave attempt to answer my question, but I actually said the following. It was sums from the past. The Minister has tried to explain this as well as possible. I believe that Mrs Mulder has also asked this question. If I understand correctly that it is going to be a maximum of €0.015 per kWh for the park's operators over that period, I accept that whole calculation as the Minister puts it. Then I don't want to go on about it. The question is then: did I understand correctly that it is not going to be more than €0.015 per kWh?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u290	From the network at sea, costs were originally estimated at €0.02 to €0.03 per kWh. TenneT must therefore make a saving of €0.015, but this €0.015 is not entirely realized by TenneT with what it does. As a result of what TenneT does, a reduction can also be achieved by the operators of the wind farms themselves. Of this €0.015, about €0.01 is done by TenneT itself and €0.005 can be done by the operators of the wind farms. If you relate that €0.015 to the originally estimated costs, you will amount to about 40% for the TenneT part. That is the basis for this calculation. I think it can be explained in more detail in addition to what Mrs Van Tongeren just said. The motion in part No. 33 also belongs to Mrs Van Tongeren, supported by a number of other spokesmen. They ask the government to inform the Chamber of the total investment costs and operational costs of the network at sea, and of the network to the first lot of Borssele. The authors actually ask me to make what I have now explained about the whole of the matter more specific at the time of the completion of the preparation for the first lot of Borssele. I want to do that. I can do that before the summer. I have a number of steps to take, but before the summer I will come up with that information. That means I'm judging the motion in part No. 33 to the room late. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 34 by Mr Smaling. It asks the government to report annually explicitly on how it steers the demand for and supply of the different categories of energy with legal and tax incentives in such a way that the difference in price is reduced as quickly as possible. But we don't. We don't send in those prices. We do not send in these prices, because we believe that the market should decide for itself. The whole SDE+ system is aimed at achieving price competition as much as possible independently of techniques. Wind at sea is a separate category, but in the various techniques that exist, we do not send, which is why I must advise against Mr Smaling's motion. I regret to say that I have a difference of opinion with Mr Smaling. He says his motion in part No. 35 is of particular importance to him. That's exactly what I understood. What I have been able to tell him is actually the maximum I could say: I think that people who are in energy-inefficient houses should be met to make sure that those houses are energy-efficient. To make these houses energy efficient, we have two arrangements, so that cheap money can be borrowed by those who have to put money into them. That way we can meet them. The SDE+ scheme is an energy tax storage scheme. This means that, to the extent that this energy tax takes account of the different categories, the same applies to the SDE+ supplement that is added to it. In the August decision-making process, we see how this will ultimately work out for the various income groups, in particular for the group for which Mr Smaling is calling for attention. I cannot take the liberty of prejudging the August decision-making process. In August, the purchasing power results of the government's overall policy will be reviewed. I have promised Mr Smaling that I will ensure that the point he mentioned is correctly included in the calculations. This point is therefore taken into account in the purchasing power discussions held in the Cabinet in August. I can go that far. In the motion in part No. 35 Mr Smaling asks the government to keep the groups concerned safe from purchasing power corrections, but it is impossible for me to respond positively to this. Perhaps Mr. Smaling could withdraw the motion. In that case, we do not need to create a greater difference between us than is necessary. If he still maintains the motion in this form, I regret to have to advise her not to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u291	The issue is simply that people who already have payment problems should not be confronted with too high an energy bill in the coming years. If the SDE+ goes up to a few hundred euros, it will be a problem, given the current €17. Partly the energy price, tax and storage are a matter of communicating vessels. The overall view, I advocate an upper limit on the energy costs imposed on the people with a small wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u292	The transition to renewable energy is inevitable. That transition must take place. We must create an infrastructure for this. The cost of this will have to be covered. I believe that we have made a careful effort to allocate costs. As far as the realisation of electricity at sea leads to higher electricity prices, I will see if I can return this to the SDE+ system via a subsidy from the SDE+. I have also indicated that I consider making the houses energy efficient to be of great importance. For the various categories of housing referred to by Mr Smaling, we have a particular policy, whatever policy we maintain. In the short term these are relatively limited increases, as Mr Smaling has already pointed out. All cases, whether limited or large, should be reflected in the August decision-making process. I'll see to that. I can assure Mr Smaling that we will look closely at the purchasing power effects, particularly for those for whom Mr Smaling is speaking in his motion. However, I cannot be positive about the wording used in the motion. The motion anticipates the August decision-making process. I don't have the right to do that. This consultation is conducted by the entire cabinet. I don't have a separate position in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u293	I'd like to take that. The Minister could argue in that consultation that caution should be exercised. In my initial contribution, I have already said that the people who can afford to buy a new building house with full insulation and an energy label A are a different population group than those who depend on a housing corporation that is willing or not willing or capital-intensive enough, especially now, to isolate a house properly or to make other provisions that limit the energy bill. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u294	That's why we have cheap loans available for those housing corporations. We're really doing what can be done. For this reason, if we are to be in a tight position, this must be taken into account in the decision-making process in August. However, other reasons, such as the care premium or the cost of studying children, may also be relevant. These different things must ultimately be assessed in their entirety. I must make sure that the element put forward by Mr Smaling is properly taken into account. Again, I am close to Mr Smaling. However, I must discourage his motion because of the wording he has chosen. My position in the August decision-making process is no different from what I said just now. Let us not make the difference greater than it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u295	I'm still thinking about the fate of my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u296	I still have to respond to a comment by Mrs Van Veldhoven about the ten-year period, which she does not think is right. In practice, this is a different period because it is an increase of €0.005 per year. Assuming that, you won't be as far as they say in 2023. You won't be at €0.009 cents in 2023. For the first five years we have translated that into 0.5% a year. In the period thereafter, i.e. until 2023, it should eventually reach €0,09 per kWh. That is the purpose of what we have set up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u297	Indeed, I saw that in the letter again was €0.009 for 2023. I am therefore pleased with this explanation. In the second letter we received this evening, we read that €0,015 is realized by the infrastructure. Wouldn't it make sense to give that discount right from the first tender? After all, it is said that this €0.015 is part of the 40% cost reduction. Then you could say that in 2016 you will not go from €0.15 to €0.14 but to €0.135, because you already have that €0.015 in the infrastructure. Maybe it's a little late to hand out something tonight, but can the Minister send a new state of development up to 2023? That would be excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u298	Mrs Van Veldhoven's approach is arithmetically correct, but it still needs to be realised. Because TenneT assumes that it also learns from its own experiences for that €0,015. I do not think it is right to record immediately that this €0.015 should be realized from the start. I know that there are loose ends here and there and that things still need to be worked out and adapted. I will not say that this is not a loose end, but I do not know if I can make it quite true in practice, if I put it as hard as Mrs Van Veldhoven is doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u299	Finally, Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u300	The companies will not be able to supply energy until the network is there. The lower funding costs associated with the network are therefore cost savings from the outset. This is at least a saving of €0.01 per kWh. You should be subtracting €0.01 from that €0.15 anyway. Even if you don't bring the returns yet, that should be your starting point. From there, you can ask the companies to achieve a cost reduction of €0.005 per year. Perhaps the Minister would like to look again at the path of integration and inform us about it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u301	I do not think what Mrs Van Veldhoven says is wrong. I think we should try to achieve this €0.015 as soon as possible. Insofar as this would not be entirely possible, we need to consider which parts can be realised in any case. We will have to take this aspect into account in consultation with the field. Hopefully I will be able to respond to Mrs Van Veldhoven's point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u302	Mrs. Ouwehand, you've been there a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u303	I thought the Minister had come to the end of his reply. I would like to ask one more question about my motion in part No. 22. The Minister indicated that he was sympathetic to setting an upper limit for underwater noise, but he did not think the place I asked for in my motion was the most appropriate. I can change the operative part in that I ask the government, like Germany, to set an upper limit for underwater noise for wind energy at sea. So I will delete "the framework ecology and cumulation." Can the Minister live with the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u304	I intend to do that. That seems obvious to me, too. If the Chamber considers that this should be done, the Chamber may pronounce it. I have to see for myself how the framework ecology and cumulation will come out. That's how I can make a decision. I think it is a probable outcome, but I do not think it is necessary to say in advance that this is the way it should be. I would not recommend that the Chamber pronounce this in advance either. I think this is a serious point from Mrs Ouwehand. I think it's going the way she wanted it to go. But I am not going to approach this positively, because I am taking away any freedom at this point. I would therefore like to leave it to the advice I have given on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u305	I am not going to change the motion, but I am going to hold it until we can see that framework. Perhaps then the Minister concluded that it is a good idea to set that limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u306	At the request of Mrs Ouwehand, I propose her motion (34058, No. 22), as last amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 of 19 December 1971 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to selfemployed persons and to members of their That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u307	I have two more questions to answer from Mrs Mulder. She asked whether the difference between 4 billion and 6 billion for the construction costs of the network at sea, which I just gave to the Chamber again in the letter, was due to the distance to the coast. That's true. If IJmuiden Ver is chosen, you're close to that 6 billion. If you do it at the locations I've suggested, you're more close to that 4 billion. That's the reason for the difference. Mrs Mulder also asked if the sector could come up with a proposal for the offshore network which is even more favourable than the cost savings already estimated by TenneT and which has also been passed on. That's not true; it's not like I'm gonna keep talking about it. The sector is consulted on this, but at some point TenneT must also continue. I think they make a very good contribution to the cost reduction. They calculated that, too. Then we put ECN and DVN GL on it again. I believe that we have made the matter sufficiently clear. I say to Mrs Mulder that it does not have the greatest urgency at the moment, because the designation of TenneT takes place formally only in STROOM. Now I'm gonna tell you how I want to do it, why I want to do it, and what I think that can do. That is what I am trying to achieve in consultation with the sector in order to achieve the 40% target as a whole. I think that is enough. I hope Mrs Mulder can agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u308	About the 4 billion: then the savings of 3 billion will still be achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u309	Yes. In that calculation I gave, we said 4 billion to 6 billion. That's the bandwidth we're dealing with. Finally, I have received a recommendation from Mr Vos, who is in line with what others have said, namely that we should listen carefully to the views of the inhabitants and coastal communities about the windmills built in the sea at 10 miles. There has also been talk of a distance of 12 miles. I've indicated why I think it should be possible in two places at 10 miles. Of course, we will listen very carefully to the people there, but listening to people when creating a new infrastructure for renewable energy cannot always mean doing exactly what they want. About shale gas, about wind on land, about wind at sea and about all other types of energy I won't rename them all................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I would very much like to listen to that and consider the arguments. This does not mean in advance that I can also fit in responsibly with what is brought into participation and what views are put forward. But I think it is important that this aspect is discussed with the municipalities and with the inhabitants of the coastal communities. I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-10.u310	We have come to the end of the discussion of this bill. The amendments and motions tabled will be put to the vote tomorrow. I thank the Minister and his officials, the MPs and the people in the public gallery.
