ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last Saturday, the news came out that European legislation aimed at banning hormone-distorting pesticides has been put under the carpet. The negotiations on TTIP have played an important role in this. That is evident from internal documents. It appeared that the TTIP negotiations have caused this regulation not to be established and have in any case been seriously delayed. Exposure to these pesticides is very harmful to health. Within the EU alone, the cost of care based on scientific research is estimated at EUR 157 billion to EUR 270 billion. That's a huge amount of money. Furthermore, the WHO, the World Health Organisation, indicates that this damage occurs even when exposed to very small doses. That is the debate on the threshold values. There would be no threshold values. The Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation has stated on several occasions that European and Dutch environmental and health standards must not be affected by a free trade agreement between the European Union and the United States. My question to the Minister is therefore how it reconciles this course of action with its views or vice versa. Can she clarify that? If it is unable to do so now, how long will it be able to do so? What steps will the Minister take to put a ban on hormone-distorting pesticides at the heart of the European Union's agenda?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. Good afternoon and good afternoon to the Chamber. I thank Mr Grashoff for his questions. This issue is high on the agenda. Two weeks ago, Secretary of State Mansveld wrote a letter to the Chamber on this subject at the request of Mrs Thieme of the Party for Animals. By the way, it did not connect to TTIP as it is done in One World's article. It is good to get things straight, because I share Mr Grashoff's concerns and to tell you how the Netherlands looks at this. The proposal to establish criteria for hormone-distorting substances has been postponed for some time, on the suggestion of the Commission. The Netherlands is not happy with this delay. The Commission should have set such criteria by 13 December 2013. The Commission has indicated that it is postponing this. It wants to do an impact assessment first, because the scientific discussion has not yet been crystallised and the consequences of establishing these criteria can be far-reaching. The Netherlands is concerned about the possible effects on human health and ecosystems and wants the Commission to draw up these criteria as soon as possible. That is the message we are sending to Brussels. We know that business lobbies on this issue. We know this because, fortunately, there is a public lobby register in Brussels, both for the Commission and for the European Parliament. However, we are not aware that the Commission, under any pressure, is also talking to civil society organisations on this subject, of course, and has come to the conclusion that such an impact assessment must be carried out. Nor do we have any evidence that this has anything to do with TTIP. The latter also doesn't matter. Mr Grashoff has already said that we do not want our standards to be lowered. The EU is concerned with how we ensure the health of our citizens, and that is not the case with business, the United States or any social organisation. That's what the room's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u3	I'm glad the Minister shares my concern, but is she worried enough? From the documents that have emerged. It is clear that the European Commission, under heavy pressure from the lobby of industry and the Americans, up to the American Chamber of Commerce, has come to this delay. That connection has been proven to be very hard. This means that this lobby has not been a bit successful, but has had a draconian impact on the European Commission's planned policy. That's a lot to think about. Will the Minister promise that she will do everything in her power to put pressure on the European Commission in reverse to ensure that these criteria are set as quickly as possible and that the Commission does not give in to the pressure of international chemical companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u4	I am happy to make that commitment, because it fits in with the line that Mr Mansveld has set out in her letter. One more sentence about that. Following Mrs Thieme's questions, Mr Mansveld contacted the Commission. It has also become clear that, following a previous publication in The Guardian, the European Parliament has asked Commissioner Andriukaitis of the Directorate-General for Health and Food Safety. It rejects the impression given in the article in the Guardian that the Commission's policy has been adapted as a result of pressure from industry. That's what she reported in that letter of inquiry. It seems to me to be a good thing to mention this here, because this is also a concern in the European Parliament for the same legitimate reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u5	I have, of course, read the denial of the Commissioner that there is any connection, but that is a very wonderful recognition, as the evidence is piling up. It is once again a matter of concern that the European Commission is sufficiently firm in its position in this regard. I would ask the Minister once again to help the Commission to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u6	I say again that this is the line that the Netherlands is following. So we certainly will. At an appropriate time, we will undoubtedly let the Chamber know what the results are.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u7	This example shows how dangerous this treaty is. In fact, it is a coup attempt by companies to eliminate democracy. People should be as informed about this as possible. For example, they can do this next Saturday at the SP debate in Amersfoort. Now my question. Does the Minister share the view that it is unacceptable for the TTIP Treaty to enter into force before the House of Representatives has ruled on this? So no provisional entry into force; first democratic decision-making. Does she share that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u8	We are in a bit of a repetition of moves, although I agree with Mr Van Dijk that it cannot be discussed enough. On Friday afternoon, the Eurogroup of the Labour Party will have a debate on this in Utrecht. Here's what I'm gonna do for precision. Then I come to the answer to Mr Van Dijk's question. As far as we have been able to establish, there is no link between the European Commission's desire to carry out an impact assessment on standards and TTIP. We have not been able to establish that. So I will not go along with Mr Van Dijk's suggestions on this. Mr Van Dijk's second question has been debated on several occasions in a general discussion. The Netherlands believes that trade treaties should be ratified through national parliaments. We have also repeatedly informed the Commissioner of this. We're not the only ones in that either. We'll wait and see. Of course, we would like to continue to follow democratic decision-making as laid down and on which I have also sent letters to the Chamber. If there are new developments in the Commission in this respect, I suggest that we discuss them well again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u9	The Minister does say good things, but she is far too careful. We have discussed this issue constantly over the last few months. The whole House agrees that things such as the erosion of democracy, pesticides, chlorine chickens and such like in the Netherlands should not be forced into the Treaty. The whole Chamber agrees on that. The Minister says every time she agrees. It does not want any lowering of standards. Why is she always so careful in her words? How active and how hard is it towards Europe when such views of the Netherlands need to be brought to the fore?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u10	There's enough excitement in the world already. I don't have to contribute to that. My view is very clear. It was that we will not accept any lowering of standards in the field of food safety and the environment. It's gonna stay that way, and I'm gonna put it that way. I would like to invite the Chamber to listen in Brussels, where we are always in this position. I do not think I have to raise the voice for this or speak in superb steps. Sometimes clarity is just the best way to make the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u11	I see that Mrs Ouwehand has a question, but Mr Vos is earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u12	My group does not believe like the SP in the conspiracy theory of big capital against democracy. However, it is indeed a concern, including for the PvdA, that TTIP and the lobby of large companies should be stopped if the safety of our citizens is at stake. Is the Minister prepared to take a very close look at the information that has come out in the e-mails of officials who seem to be a link between TTIP and the hormone-distorting substances, as Mr Grashoff pointed out and the way in which the Commission reacted to them, and to inform Parliament about them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u13	I'd like to be willing to do that. However, I refer to the letter that Mr Mansveld has already written about it. I can imagine that in the light of recent reports there is a need to go deeper into the matter, so I am happy to say so. I will deal with it in an AO on this subject, or in a separate letter of inquiry; I will look at what is most obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u14	Of course, Mr Vos wants to know when that letter will be sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u15	Before the Chamber goes into recess, I'd say. That seems useful to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u16	I would like to come back to TTIP, but also to the content of the report. That report didn't fall out of the sky. It was agreed that in 2013 there would be a set of criteria on the basis of which we could phase out the toxins. They didn't make it. Last year, the Animal Party called on the cabinet to join the Swedish trial on this matter. In March of this year it appeared that the report on the basis of which these substances could be phased out was indeed available, but was put in a drawer somewhere in Brussels. When the Party for the Animal Secretary of State called Mansveld, she said she didn't know anything about it. Now there are reports that there is a clear relationship with the influence of the lobby and TTIP. My impression is that the cabinet is very naive in its actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u17	Thank you. Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u18	We see that agreements to come to an end are not being complied with. There are signs that the influence of the lobby is too great and that TTIP has an impact. Why doesn't the Cabinet do any more?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u19	As I said, Mr Mansveld has made explicit enquiries to the Commission. It has been informed of the outcome of the debate in the European Parliament. The position of the Netherlands is clear: like the PvdD and others in this Chamber, we believe that the Commission should make real progress on this dossier. We do not see any reason why this should not be possible. I would like to say again that I would like to look again at whether it is necessary to let the Commission know again. In my opinion, the Commission is very familiar with this position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u20	Mrs Ouwehand, your second question briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u21	If the cabinet believes that the agreements in question should be implemented, I would like to hear the cabinet say that the report, which is now in a drawer, should be made public. There is no need for an impact assessment, because we already agreed in 2013 that the criteria should be made public and that we would phase out the relevant substances from that point on. I would like to thank the Minister for her commitment to ask the European Commission again about the impact and relationship with TTIP, but I believe that the Cabinet should also conduct its own investigation, on the basis of the information that CEO has now published.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u22	I believe we are doing what Mrs Ouwehand suggests. We have joined the lawsuit that Sweden has brought against the European Commission about the lack of these standards, so we are doing what Mrs Ouwehand asks. We very much agree with her call. I don't see why it should take so long. We will continue to put pressure on the European Commission through the same speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u23	We have heard a round from the left with scary about TTIP. The VVD Group is very pleased with the realistic line followed by the cabinet. So howdy to the Minister, too. Will the Commission remain within the mandate given to the European Commission by the 28 Member States when negotiating TTIP? Maybe this has nothing to do with it? Maybe the Minister can make that clear to the Chamber again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u24	We have no indication that this issue has been linked to the negotiations on TTIP. There is evidence of lobbying by all kinds of parties, with all kinds of interests. The register is public, and that's fine. The Commission will undoubtedly accept all of this. The Dutch Government makes its own assessment and agrees with what is being asked here from left to right in the Chamber, namely to put pressure on the Commission, because we believe that standards should be established to phase out these pesticides.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u25	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber. That concludes oral Question Time.
