ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u1	Mrs Thieme has asked me to let you know that she can no longer be present in the debate because of obligations elsewhere; of course the answers are being listened to. Mr Slob has informed me that he is being replaced by Mr Voordewind; he also has obligations elsewhere. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister for his first-term reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u2	Madam President. Let us begin by saying that this debate is about an issue that is extremely complex and extremely urgent at the moment. According to the Cabinet, it is important to realize a number of things. Of course, it is important that refugees have safe shelter. Given the situation with the boats and the people who are dying and the terrible images we have seen mentioned by several speakers and the facts we have seen or read, we must do everything we can to destroy that practice or activity of these cynical smugglers and the business model behind it. A third theme was somewhat less prescriptive in the debate, but it is noticeable in a number of interruptions. That is the fact that we must prevent people from applying for asylum and getting asylum in Europe and that they themselves are looking for the country where they prefer to live. We need to have a European asylum system for this, in which we can determine together what the specific asylum application should lead to in terms of reception. The background is those different objectives. You want to prevent people in Europe from looking for the countries they choose in the sense that they prefer to live there. In a number of interrupting debates with Geert Wilders of the PVV that emerged. The other issue is how to prevent smugglers from making money and creating life-threatening situations. The cabinet has opted for a shorter-term approach and a slightly longer- or medium-term approach, but would like to be as quick as possible. I repeat to the various speakers of the coalition that they are linked and closely related. First of all, we want to ensure that there is safe reception in the region. We realize that this effort will cost us, including financially. We must do this collectively as Europe. I would ask the President to give me the opportunity to put down the central thoughts for two more minutes and then deal with the interruptions. We want to work in the region towards places, for example building on existing UNHCR sites. We want to make it possible for people to attend education and work there, so that you can safely accommodate people near the fireplaces, while there is also perspective. That's two things. One is that Europe will regularly consider whether we want to give groups from these camps a place in Europe through resolution. The terrible word "overpressure valve" has been used for this purpose. I had not realized that that term would lead a life of its own, but that happens when part of the coalition has a beta background. The second point is that, if it succeeds, there will be no right to asylum in Europe itself, but people who come here will be brought to those safe places. That's one element. The second element for the shorter term is that we take note of yesterday's European Commission proposal on dealing with emergency relocation. We're actually saying you need to go a step further. The European Union should already agree to move much more towards a European asylum system. If someone comes forward, they will see if they are entitled to asylum, but that does not mean that someone who reports to the Netherlands will also receive asylum in the Netherlands. Someone might have asylum in Greece or Lithuania. It is not the person who decides in which country he gets asylum, but that is what the European system determines. That is a short-term point. In fact, the cabinet thinks that this is better than working on emergency scenarios again. Those two things are closely linked. If you are working towards a European approach for the short term, this can only be done in conjunction with Europe's decision to ensure that the medium-term vision will also be realised. This means, therefore, working on locations with a perspective on education and work, developing the resettlement instrument and no longer applying for asylum from those countries in Europe where these facilities are. Those two things are inseparable from each other. That concludes my introductory remarks, Mr President. There are, of course, a lot of questions I would like to answer, but with this I wanted to put the matter precisely on my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u3	The Prime Minister said it a bit softer in a sentence, but he said it very clearly: both are linked. This means that the pressure on Monday's consultation is very high. Mr Zijlstra said in the first term that it must be decided first. It must even be decided in which direction one goes in the medium or long term. That's gotta be taken care of. That has to be decided. I know Europe a little longer than I do today. That means the Minister will never get out this far on Monday. The Minister's linking this up. Does this mean that the Netherlands will be very hard on the distribution key and will not accept additional refugees in the Netherlands in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u4	I do not share Mr Roemer's analysis of the political playing field in Europe. I am thinking here of the contacts I have had with European colleagues in the past few days, after the cabinet decision, but also yesterday's communication from the Commission. She talked about better reception and resettlement. In fact, strangely enough, I refer to the statements made by the High Representative. They were precisely about the current situation, but the High Representative also outlined in the same answer that she wants to work towards more shelter in the region and the realisation of places for it. Monday, the JHA Council meets. A second meeting may be needed. I also thought it was planned for if it doesn't work in one go, but it would be nice if it did happen in one go. I may be wrong, but I honestly expect everyone to agree on that on Monday. If it gets stuck, so is my political expectation, it will be more on the issue of the emergency mechanism for the people who are already in Europe than on that other point. That question was asked to me by the Dutch Government, one cannot do without the other, and these two are linked together. That also makes sense, because they are two sides of the same coin.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u5	The idea of a better reception in the region is, I believe, almost widely supported. That's not the problem. That is not the subject of discussion in most parties, and at least in my party. What matters is the impossibility of agreeing with each other for the medium or long term that everyone in Europe can only be returned to safe countries and safe regions. On one Monday, the Minister will never be so decided, simply because one of the coalition partners does not even say so. If you make such a tough demand, as has been done here by the VVD, and that cannot be done on Monday, then you do not agree to receive additional refugees in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u6	The plan is one and indivisible; that is what I said. But my political expectation is that the part that concerns Mr Roemer will go faster than the part that relates to the temporary emergency mechanism for Europe. Moreover, this cabinet would prefer to move straight to a European mechanism. However, the emergency mechanism is on the table and we will discuss it with each other, but we will continue to argue for more ambition and say that this does not solve the problem of people in Europe seeking the country where they want to settle, so let Europe do so. Back to the other point. It is precisely because of the terrible images of the boats and the smugglers of human beings that I honestly expect from my contacts that they say: we need a solution that breaks through that business model I only use that term, so the economic rational to do so. If you have those secure UNHCR-plus camps in the region, with education and work perspective, where people can go................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Although a reception is possible, you will continue to have the chance of applying for asylum here and being dealt with, with the result that it is attractive to continue on those boats. People understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u7	If you listen carefully to what the Prime Minister says, you're right to say that it's unfeasible what he's trying to say at all. Take Lebanon. In such a small country with such a small population there are already one and a half million refugees. The Prime Minister talks about full education and work prospects. He's just yelling two things in between here. If you see the situation there now, in which children of 3, 4, 5 years old sell flowers in those camps to get something from a sandwich, and you also assume that if someone reports to Europe, we can say quietly to such a country: here you have him back, because I think he got rid of your country. And Lebanon would say: oh, sorry, Mr Rutte, there was one shot in between, come back, we'll pay the ticket? Isn't that an unrealism from the top shelf?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mr Roemer outlines a plan that I do not know, because that is not the plan of the cabinet. I agree with him: if that were his proposal, he would be right to analyse his own proposal, because that is not going to work. The cabinet plan provides that we do not use the existing UNHCR-like sites, but we realize that we as a Europe have a task with the countries themselves to invest in them, so that education and work prospects are created. And that's part of the fact that you're having those conversations with those countries yourself. Those countries will, of course, have to show willingness to do so. One of the spokesmen, I believe Mr Zijlstra, said that the coherent power we have as Europe, as the world's largest economy, with our place in the world and significance in the region, is important and that it will not be without investment. This won't be realized tomorrow. We're gonna have to work on that with each other. I'm not allowed to ask back questions, so I won't, but otherwise I would...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u9	No, no, you're not gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u10	Well, let me rephrase. If, apparently, this is not what Mr Roemer wants, I am so curious as to see how you see it. Because that's what we want in the end. I mentioned those three points. You want to prevent people from shopping in Europe themselves. You want to prevent refugees, wherever they are in the world, from going to a place where it's safe. At the same time, you want to break the business model of the smugglers. These are the three objectives. How do you achieve that third if you continue to offer a perspective on asylum applications in Europe, which would not be necessary because that safe reception is possible there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u11	Now there's the question. I am therefore giving Mr Roemer a chance to say something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What's on the table now is for the longer term. The Prime Minister then has the idea that, after improving the reception countries such as Lebanon, where there are already one and a half million people and where there are still a lot more, with a little money, could manage to organise education for all children and prospects for work in Lebanon. Forget it! That's just not gonna happen. The Prime Minister's just keeping a bullshit story here to have a nice chat for his own supporters, but it just doesn't work out. It's a long way from reality, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u13	I'll do it once.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u14	I would add that if we are going to have the debate in this way, it will take quite a long time. And there are a lot of first-term questions that still have to be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u15	Two things. I'll answer that question first. I was really under the impression that I was also somewhat pleased that the discussion in the cabinet between the coalition parties went in the right direction when Mr Samsom came up with a very good proposal for European asylum seekers' centres at the borders of Europe. Then I thought, "It's going the right way." My colleagues Dennis de Jong and Sharon Gesthuizen proposed this three years ago. So I thought we'd get a long way out of that. But there's nothing left of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u16	Yeah, again. Creating an image and then saying that it is a strange image is something my predecessor often did in debates and successfully. Let me stick to the facts. The cabinet proposal is a different proposal. The cabinet wants to work towards this step by step. It also realizes, as the letter states, that practical issues will be dealt with in order to deal with them. Nevertheless, the need is felt in the region itself, because in a number of countries there is also a certain lack of prospects at the moment, precisely because the provision is inadequate. I'm sure you can talk to countries. I see that Mr Roemer still disagrees. I do not think I can convince him, but it is our view that you should talk to those countries to ensure that care is possible there. That is also the only way, I say to Mr Roemer, to ensure that people have a safe place there and to prevent them from eventually getting on board such a boat.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u17	I would like to return to the Prime Minister's uninterrupted introduction. I must say that I heard a shameless VVD explanation of the letter. It began with the moral side of the matter: refugees must be received in the world. I heard the Labour Party keep a big story about our moral obligation. The Prime Minister then goes into the long-term plan which is very important for the VVD and for the Labour Party something that may need to be discussed later. I find this surprising. I have a question about that short-term story. The Prime Minister says he does not want to move towards a distribution of the 120,000, but towards a distribution of all refugees. Today, in 2014, Europe was concerned with some 560,000 refugees. This year's Europe-wide will be 1 million, if it continues to do so. Then I assume that the cabinet intends to receive between 60,000 and 70,000 refugees in the Netherlands on the basis of the 6% distribution key this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u18	I'll just park the key, because there's a lot you can say about that. The key that is now being used for the emergency mechanism does not allow certain countries in Eastern Europe to do so to a very great extent. We must therefore continue to talk about this. My point is a different and much more fundamental one. The situation we are currently seeing in Europe, that people themselves travel through all kinds of safe countries until they arrive in the country where they ultimately want to come out, is undesirable because it places the pressure on asylum far too much on a limited number of countries. We must therefore move towards a situation in which these things are well organised at European level. I would like to take up the challenge with Europe to work towards it. I realize that in the short term there is this redistribution mechanism. I do not know whether we will be able to take a single step in Europe towards the short-term final situation we would like to see, which is to begin with redistribution and not just as an emergency mechanism now. However, I do believe that its inherent logic is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u19	Now the prime minister is getting back on his VVD leg. This is an important part of the Labour Party, I presume. The Prime Minister himself said that the cabinet does not want to divide 120,000 refugees in the intermediate phase, but all refugees. And "all" I can't help it. This year, it's about the million.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u20	100 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u21	No, it's about a million. That means that the cabinet is proposing to allow the Netherlands to take its fair share of that million or whatever it is. If it's $1 million, isn't that $60,000? I can't do it any other way. If the Prime Minister wants to get around that again and doesn't want to say that, that doesn't leave much of it. All refugees sharing a million is about 60,000 in the Netherlands in 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u22	I would like to make this quite clear because it is clear to the listener that Mr Buma is trying to allocate parts of the letter to coalition parties. I challenge him to go along with the idea that this is perhaps a letter that we are also enthusiastic about together. The question then arises as to how to deal with the situation in the shorter term. I've outlined it. Mr Buma is now focusing very much on the question of the distribution key. I have already said that there is still a great deal to be said about this. That key is far from being fixed because there is also discussion about it. That also means that if you come out with an emergency mechanism for the shorter term, the numbers associated with it are still in motion. The Baltic States are very well off there, and a number of other countries have a difficult task to tackle when it comes to the Commission. I think we should talk about that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u23	It's unbelievable. This is the Prime Minister of the Netherlands. He presented a plan: to divide all asylum seekers in Europe among the countries. I say that the current distribution key is about 6% and that this is going to be 60,000. Then the Prime Minister doesn't say that that gross modo is right, no, he just goes all around it and says that it can change. Yes, it may indeed be 5.5% or 6.5%, but it will not be much more. So let it be between 55,000 and 65,000 this year, or between 50,000 and 70,000. I just want to know from the Prime Minister if he realizes that's the result of what he's agreed to here. So far, the Prime Minister has not answered. I really do not think that is possible, because this is the direct consequence. He should not make all kinds of nice talk for the future, he is the Prime Minister who has to explain to the Netherlands the consequences of cabinet policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u24	Mr Buma mentions all kinds of figures, both the absolute inflow and the percentages that I am referring to. So I can't answer that question like that, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u25	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u26	Germany talks about 800,000 to 1 million people, the Netherlands has 1,800 per week. If, in September, the cabinet doesn't even know what forecasts should apply for 2015, how can it take people in the Netherlands at all? I am speaking to this Prime Minister on nothing but his own letter, which really pisses me off about... and his story about all the refugees. When I ask him if he knows the consequence of that, he says: I'm not going to tell you, but I'm sure there are more than I want to say out loud.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u27	The last thing I want is for Mr Buma to be angry. It's really my goal this afternoon to avoid that. But unfortunately, I can no longer say what I just said, and yet I ask Mr Buma not to be angry. Because he comes up with numbers, both in absolute terms and with the distribution mechanism. All these things are on the move. You really can't draw that kind of conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u28	Would the Prime Minister find that acceptable as a result?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u29	Those are all like-dan questions. Let us conduct the debate professionally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u30	In any case, we are getting back to Rutterian, if only because the Prime Minister just said that we can assume that the coalition partners really wrote the letter together and can also be enthusiastic about it. I can imagine. If you put enough vagueness on paper, everyone can get their own thing out of there. It also happened in the debate we held in the first term. The VVD says that there must be more people in the region, the PvdA says: it is good if we include more people in Europe so that there are fewer people in the region, it is already very busy there. Where's the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u31	The cabinet believes that the region is now under enormous pressure. This also translates into the fact that some people have drifted. We want to change the situation in the region. We want to make arrangements there to invest in it, starting with existing reception sites which are slowly under too much pressure, so that there is a perspective. This also leads to more capacity, but always in combination with the resolution instrument that we also mention in the letter. So you really need to distinguish between where we are at the moment and what the cabinet wants to achieve with this policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u32	Thank you for this explanation. You have the resolution tool and you have the shelter in the region. The question is what will ultimately be the impact of this policy. Is the purpose of what the cabinet is proposing to accommodate more people in the region in order to limit the influx here, or are we going to invite, on the basis of invitation, that is what the coalition parties can find each other in?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u33	You want the pressure to decrease, among other things by improving the facilities. You will always need the instrument of resetlement as a pressure relief valve. At the same time, it is a fact that we assume that this will lead to less than more influx. That's what the letter says. We want to use this money to help finance the additional investments needed in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u34	Did I understand correctly that the Prime Minister said in a subtle way that this policy will lead to more influx into Europe, thus leading to more refugees?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u35	No. We assume it will lead to less influx. That's what the letter says. With the proceeds of this, we will probably have to increase the amount of money to cover the costs of reception in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u36	That's clear. Around 97% are taken care of in the region, but the cabinet says that there should actually be many more people in the region. It also wants to contribute a little bit to that. That is clearly the purpose of the cabinet. I hear the PvdA say something quite different, namely that we, as Europe, should take the pressure off the kettle by inviting more people here in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u37	Once again, the situation is currently such that there is enormous pressure on those countries; Mr Klaver is right. We want to make it more professional. We also want to support this. The letter also shows that this is expected to lead to less influx. That is not even a desired objective, but a factual observation. We use the proceeds partly to finance the costs of investments in reception locations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u38	Does a Syrian family living in a garage box or a basement in Lebanon for two years have the right to seek asylum in Europe under a distribution system to be agreed in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u39	That's entirely up to you. At present, such a Syrian family often falls into the hands of a human smuggler. If the family boards a boat like this, it will most likely request asylum here. It will be dealt with in the current situation. We want to move towards a situation where people for whom there is safe reception in the region are not entitled to asylum in the EU, simply because they come from a safe third country. They won't get asylum. The application is then clearly declared inadmissible or rejected immediately because there is a safe place in the region. This is often not the case at the moment. It will be different on a case-by-case basis. That, of course, leads to the large numbers that we are seeing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u40	What is the current situation in Lebanon according to the Prime Minister? Do people live there in cellar boxes and garages and is there a distressing situation? Or could there be 120,000 more refugees?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u41	I've said something about this a few times. Look at the situation in Turkey, where most of the people do not live in shelters but walk through southern Turkey. Look at the situation in Jordan, where a large number of people live in shelters, but where there is also a great deal of pressure on these locations. Lebanon once again has its own specific situation. That's what a big part of the letter is about. In the short term, you're dealing with an increased asylum influx. The question is not only how to deal with it in Europe, but also how to prevent people from being forced to come here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u42	In two questions, which I do not get an answer to, I am now very clearly exposing the whole problem of this coalition. We have just heard Mr Samsom, who said stirred: people in Lebanon are in cellar boxes and garages; that is no longer possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u43	Yeah, the situation there is terrible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u44	We have also heard Mr Zijlstra, who said: look at Lebanon; 120,000 more can be added when it comes to immediate care. Oh, no, he was talking about Jordan instead of Lebanon. But in Jordan, we also have cellar boxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u45	However, there are different situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u46	Either we accept that people in those countries are in basement boxes and garages, or we can add another 100,000 or more. My problem with this letter from the cabinet is that we've been...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u47	You can also make that clear in the second term. What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u48	No, Mr. Chairman. My question is: isn't this exactly the bed-bath-bread thing we had here a few months ago? A paper reality has been created, but we never hear about it again and the problem remains. I ask the Prime Minister to use this Chamber to find a workable solution. Is the cabinet prepared to take the first step and say: we are going to make full use of the redistribution system, because that is feasible, but we are dropping that ridiculous hard demand now? It is a hard demand that prevents a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u49	I have to give an answer to this, which I gave to Mr Roemer in a slightly different form. Mr Pechtold says that we are doing nothing and that a few more can be added in the cellar boxes he mentioned in Lebanon. Then I understand he thinks it's an unworkable plan. However, I challenge Mr Pechtold to try to look at the letter as if it were not necessarily a compromise. Everything we do here always has elements of compromise in it, but it allows for a moment that this is an approach that the coalition can share with each other. Then Mr Pechtold will see that the letter does not say that we are catching the people in the cellar boxes. No, it says that we are going to invest in host communities that we are actually trying to add to. I mentioned this in order to indicate that we have reception locations, often under the guidance of the UNHCR. We're gonna be looking in the next few days. I've even started it. I've been asked if there's anything I can tell you. No, I can't tell you about it, because if I do that in public, there's no chance. I note a great commitment in Europe to do so, because it leads to a safe reception for refugees, because it leads to the breaking of the business model. I also notice that commitment for the shorter term. However, for this shorter period of time, with the Commission's proposal, we keep the problem that people themselves, to a large extent, are looking for the place where they prefer to receive asylum, while we think it is better to create a more European system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u50	The Prime Minister has just said that we should not see it as a wish, but as a fact. If we invest in the region, if we ensure that reception is better, more people can be taken care of and fewer people come to Europe. Where does he get that wisdom? What's he basing that knowledge on? In what way could there be more people in that region if we already see that the atrocities there are so great? How are we going to guarantee the protection of people there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u51	I outlined that in the letter. We want to do this, among other things, by being financially involved. That really requires a financial commitment. I have outlined that part of the funding has to do with the expected lower influx to Europe. That is not the whole solution to the financial problem; more will be needed. It's not gonna work with the existing locations. You will have to work in the region to improve the situation. You will have to work on shelters that meet a number of minimum requirements, which they do not currently meet in many cases. To people who come from such countries with such safe situations, you can say that they have no right to asylum here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u52	Will you make that concrete? I'd like to ask the Prime Minister. Will you make that concrete? You have to provide facilities that people say are so good, now I really don't have to run to Europe anymore. How are we going to arrange this protection? Ultimately, the protection we must offer these refugees is a responsibility of the country where the refugee camp or temporary facility is located. Why don't you give us a concrete example of what the Cabinet wants to do? The Minister's talking about money. An additional 110 million is being allocated, whereas I believe that this money was intended for other poor people in the world. It is 2.5% of the amount actually needed. What's with the money to be bought? Money alone isn't gonna do you any good. It's what you put it on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u53	I have outlined this: education and work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u54	Is that the only thing this cabinet comes up with? Education and work. Should there be something about food and housing? Should we not ensure that people in these camps are not threatened? Isn't that all part of the compromise that has been reached, excuse me, within the shared vision set out in the clear plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u55	I assumed those elements were taken for granted. Of course they're more than part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u56	The Prime Minister presents an image of more structural reception in the region than now, with new locations, care, education and employment. Is the Prime Minister aware of how much money we are now short for food and shelter alone?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u57	I haven't got the amounts ready, but I know it's serious trouble. It is an approach in which we do three things at the same time. We're working on the locations there. We are aware that we, as a Europe, will still bring people here through resolution, albeit much more organized. Mr Van der Staaij has said something about it. We can do much more than that. If those places are there, you have to say at the same time: you cannot apply for asylum here. There has to be this whole coherence. I am convinced that this is something for which commitment can be made in Europe. That commitment is also necessary in order to agree to this redistribution. I've sketched that out a few times, because it's connected. If this commitment is there, Europe can also make a joint effort to this end. I agree with all those who say that Europe can collectively achieve something. There are already first places in Niger. That's where the first conversations are going on. Of course, that's a lot deeper in Africa. I realize that. I am convinced, listening to the UNHCR, that there are good leads, but we will indeed have to work hard on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u58	The Minister is now presenting this picture, but what message is he going to take to Brussels? What's he gonna do to convince his colleagues? I ask that because he clears 110 million in the letter, while billions are needed, just for the acute need. So I'm not even talking about locations, education, care and employment right now, because then you're talking about billions. Is this cabinet going to persuade other colleagues to release those billions over the next two years? What example does the Netherlands give by first cutting 700 million and now adding 110 million to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u59	The Netherlands is still one of the countries that is doing a great deal in terms of development aid and development cooperation. Europe, of course, has budgets for this. I note from contacts with my colleagues that they also believe that this is true and that we need to solve this problem in a structural way. Solving structuralally also means ensuring that people can actually be provided with safety there. People also realize that it costs money. We often talk about Europe here and, in my view, we find that Europe has added value here. You will have to work together on this in Europe. That also calls for financial commitment. The cabinet realizes that. This coalition realizes that, but the Netherlands does not have to finance it for all 28. We will have to do this collectively, after we have made a collective commitment to this plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u60	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u61	Mr. Chairman. The advantage of having a debate with group chairmen is that the questions that have been put to us a long time ago are repeated in the interruptions. I have already answered a number of them in that way, but there are still a few.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u62	The disadvantage of waiting a long time to continue is that someone else is reporting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u63	We cannot afford to wait for the medium term. The Netherlands is now inundated, Europe is now inundated with masses of people, an invasion of fortune seekers, often from Islamic countries. At the moment 1,800 people are entering the Netherlands. These are three new full asylum seekers' centres per week. But what does the Netherlands want? The reality is different from what we get on television at Umberto Tan and Jeroen Pauw. The reality is that a lot of people don't want this. The majority of Dutch people want borders to be closed and border controls to be introduced. People now want a solution to prevent these people from coming here. I can only hear the Prime Minister keep vague stories about medium-term plans. What he needs to do, what the cabinet needs to do, what the VVD needs to do, is to make sure that those people don't get into the country right now. That you think about the future is wonderful, but the boundaries must be closed now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u64	Now that Mr Wilders is reporting, I would like to say that two elements in his speech show a great weakness in his speech. Moreover, I do think that in his interruptions he rightly drew attention to the fact that people are going to look for it, which is a strong point, to the country where they want to end up in the end. It is characteristic that Mr Wilders emphasizes the Islamic background. As if we could make a choice: Oh, you come from an Islamic country. Then you are not a refugee; you cannot come here. He also mentioned values. I will refrain from doing so, because that does not add anything to this debate. Now for the answer to his question. It also seems nice to me to be the leader of a party that says: for everything is a simple solution. That is what we all long for, but we are really here as mature politicians who have to try to solve complex problems for this beautiful country. This is a complex issue. We have our international treaties. We have our beliefs about what's decent. This means that there is nothing else you can do but tackle this problem as effectively as possible in the shorter and medium term. There are proposals for this and they go further than many countries in Europe have gone so far. That's how I try to do decent politics and not fool people into pretending there's a simple solution for everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u65	This Prime Minister, not the PVV Group, is acting indecently. Once again he lies to the Dutch voters. He's done that before; we know that. "No more money to the Greeks," he said. Everyone would get $1,000. Now he comes up with a vague medium-term plan which is probably impossible. What does the Dutchman notice? What does the VVD, who by a majority does not want asylum seekers at all, notice of this? Three quarters of your own citizens will find that from next week thousands of asylum seekers, lucky seekers or whatever you want to call them, are coming to the Netherlands. That is the reality. You may have saved the coalition with your vague compromise, but you're taking the Dutch to the abyss. You should be ashamed of that!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u66	Even if Mr Wilders had my job, I hope that will never happen, and I will continue to work hard for that, he would have to deal with this complex issue. Then he would soon find that there are no simple solutions. In addition, I am surprised by his contribution when I look at the content. Elements of this proposal, which are more focused on the medium term, were previously embraced by Mr Wilders. I remember debates on this. I'm surprised he's getting so far away from that now. Some consistency in the composition of the PVV also helps us all to have that debate with him properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u67	Firstly, I note that we are now five hours away, but the cabinet has not yet answered one of the questions I have asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u68	I didn't really get the chance! They're all interrupting!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u69	We'll see about that. If you'd like to mention the number of the question, we'll be bingoing. I believe that the demand for the future is essential for the feasibility of this cabinet's plans. In the view of the Prime Minister, can no more refugees come to the Netherlands on their own from Syria or one of the neighbouring countries, because the right to asylum will then cease completely?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u70	For this, it is necessary that we in the region have succeeded in creating these sites, with the perspective I have just outlined. If so, people will still come to Europe through the resolution instrument; Mr Van der Staaij and others have also drawn attention to this. This does indeed mean that people from the region where there is safe reception are not entitled to asylum in the European Union. On the basis of the fact that they come from a safe third country, they will not get that asylum either. An application will immediately be rejected as manifestly inadmissible as they may receive reception at the locations in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u71	This is another example of the feasibility, the paper reality of this proposal? We have not been able to resolve the conflict in Syria for four years, either with bombing or with help or whatever, but the cabinet believes that it is possible to create a situation that meets all security and future prospects in countries such as Jordan and Lebanon, which currently consist of 25% refugees! That's an illusion, isn't it? If that doesn't work already, you're gonna keep people on the run, right? I find it interesting, but you can't put that as a condition for people who end up taking the leap?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u72	I also had that debate at the very beginning with Mr Roemer. If this is true, if Mr Pechtold is in this game, he is actually telling the Dutch people: we will see images of people drowning in the Mediterranean on television very regularly in the coming years. That's what he says. Mr Klaver has a different solution from the cabinet. He says, "Come here!" This has just been demonstrated by his interruption debate with Mr Zijlstra. It is not my view, but at least it is also a way to make life miserable for those smugglers. But if Mr Pechtold is right and if he does not want to work with the cabinet to realise this perspective in Europe, we are actually saying to each other that we cannot fight the phenomenon of people dying on the run to Europe, that we do not have sufficient resources to do so. Isn't it incredibly tragic to draw that conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u73	Yeah, that's it, like the fact that people are going to walk from the middle of Africa because they have nothing to eat and drink and die on the way, and like the fact that there are a lot on the bottom of the Mediterranean that aren't even in the numbers. That's horrible! As long as we do not solve war and famine, that will happen. That's how long people will be looking for a place where it's safer and better. The cabinet is wasting time and wasting opportunities by saying that we are not going to take those people in, but we are guaranteeing for the future education and security, and that they will not be raped, in Lebanon and Jordan. But that hasn't happened in four years. Look at the rest of the world and history. That's my problem. I would like to look with the cabinet in this letter for the solution, but the most important condition for this is to let go of those idiotic conditions between one and the other, which is what we call the compromise......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then we can strive for both.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u74	I never expected to defeat Mr Pechtold on vision. What he's doing here I respect it's a concept, but I'm not going to accept it. This is really capitulating to this problem. I sincerely believe that we need to work together to solve this problem in a structural manner. I do not know whether we are going to succeed in all respects, but I do know that there is support for this in Europe. I am convinced that, if we talk to the region about this in a good way and help to make the problems that are there more manageable, we can work towards a situation where security can be provided. Then we can stop people from coming here. I know that's gonna cost you. And that will cost a lot of energy and manpower and that it will not be realized tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u75	If the Prime Minister says we have to tackle the cause, then he has to step back. Then he must avoid that the financial flight from Africa to the west is ten times greater than the financial aid in reverse direction from the west to Africa. So you must avoid keeping Africa poor and indeed, as Mr Pechtold rightly says, fleeing. For 15 years, we have seen the results of bombing in the Middle East: nothing at all. In fact, more warring parties, the growth of IS and more refugees. It is therefore a good thing that we are being said here, including by the Prime Minister's own party, that we should stop doing so. The Prime Minister just said literally: we are going to do so with the perspectives outlined. He was referring to education for all children and perspective on work. In fact, he says: we will never be able to do that. He knows that's never gonna work out and he's gonna have a little chat around here for the regulars, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u76	I do not paint the picture of a new Amsterdam or a new Leiden in the region. What I'm sketching here is that you're leaving existing shelters. And that you're grunting on the question of what to do to ensure that it offers a long-term perspective to people to stay there. It will not be the alternative to home, nor will it be the alternative to people who would like to come to Europe. By this you can say to people earlier: we have these facilities, and we think that you should use them instead of coming here. I cannot guarantee here that I will be able to teach every child at European level up to the age of 18 or that I will be able to help everyone get a job. However, I do think that you will have to look at education and work as part of a long-term perspective. Let me come back to the beginning of Mr Roemer's analysis of Africa. As far as dealing with root causes is concerned, Mr Roemer and I agree. I would like to discuss the analysis of these root causes a little longer, because there are elements that I do not agree with. Of course, you always try to tackle root causes in policy, but what I can never take away is that, in my opinion, there will continue to be a great difference in prosperity between Europe and surrounding parts of the world over the next decades. That will always ensure a suction effect. We cannot offer a way here to everyone who is sensitive to it. That simply cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u77	Exactly. So we have to do something about this fair trade that this cabinet always does not give at home. I'll come back to my question. The Prime Minister's actually quitting again. In his introduction, he literally said that care should be improved in the region. In addition to facilities such as water, sleeping places and food, this also means: good education and perspective at work. I have now been to many camps, including Kenya on the Somali border, in one of the largest camps in the middle of the desert. I saw a 17-year-old girl with a baby on her hand. She had that baby registered with the UNHCR. The UNHCR man told me that mother was born here, too. So that means never education and never prospects for work. This is also the situation in Lebanon, Jordan and parts of Turkey. Then how can the Prime Minister say with dry eyes: we send them all back; all we have to do is give a little perspective?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u78	With all due respect, Mr Roemer has tried a few times to make caricatures of what I am saying here. It's okay. That's what he's gonna do. He's gonna turn things on. I don't blame him for that. The crazy thing is that his vision is actually the opposite of what he says. He actually says that it is not going to change, that the situation is what it is, that we have to accept it and that people continue to come to Europe in very large flows, also using life-threatening shipping routes and poorly equipped ships. That's what he actually says. I'm not going to accept that. I think it is our common task as a Europe to ensure that people have more perspective. That's part of decency, too. Again, people will prefer to go back to the country where it is unsafe at that time. Others pointed that out, too. Otherwise, even if these camps improve, people will still prefer to come to Sweden or Germany or the Netherlands. I understand all that, but I want to be able to say to those people: we have a decent place for you near the country where the misery is; we have all worked very hard on it and we are going to help you get a good one there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u79	I wish we could say that. I went to check it out. I did see those camps in the middle of the desert. You'll only spend the first seventeen years of your life in a desert without education and perspective on work. I saw it. The situation in Jordan and Lebanon is much worse. Children of 3, 4 years old are trying to get something of money by selling a flower. Maybe Mr Rutte should take a look there too. I wonder if he will still be able to say with ease: it flows across here, we have to send a little bit of money there and then we can honestly say that people have a safe place there and then they'll figure it out. That's what he actually says. I honestly cannot imagine that this policy is shared by both coalition parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u80	That is not the policy either. I also refer to the letter and what the two group chairmen of the coalition parties have said about it. That really goes beyond Mr Roemer's description here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u81	The Prime Minister says he has the ambition to improve conditions in third countries and ensure that people do not have to flee. He's talking about 10, 15, 20 and maybe 30 years. Then why are you linking such a long-term approach to short-term care and redistribution within Europe? Why do you say it's one indivisible plan? Why don't you unplug that? Why don't you say: we have the ambition to make sure that people are safer there and that there will be more peace and security and perspective on education and work, but we will link that separately from the duty we now have to take people in and reduce the pressure in that region? Why is this connection so tight, other than for political reasons, to keep the coalition together?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u82	In previous proposals of the Labour Party and the VVD you can also see many elements that are contained in this letter. That makes sense, because of course this letter is also inspired by thinking in the coalition groups. There's a connection in that. If you confine yourself to the problem within Europe, I believe that Mr Samsom said so, rather than addressing the situation of the region to Europe, if you only do one thing and leave the other, then there is no balance. You're gonna have to do both. My political assessment is frankly not that I expect major problems in the medium term. I would rather expect a lot of discussion in Europe about the solution proposed by the Commission for the shorter term, in which the Netherlands also has reflections. I already sketched it to the Chamber. We say, "Pick it up right away." We'll have that conversation. However, that seems more difficult to achieve given the attitude of many countries in Eastern Europe. I hope and expect, moreover, that I have some indications for this, but I am not sure that our proposals can help to get some Eastern European countries involved in the movements in the shorter term. It can also help to bridge the gap there, because they have concerns about systems of redistribution if this is not accompanied by addressing the situation in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u83	This is another sketch. The Prime Minister does this very often, outlining what the European playing field looks like and how we play a role in it or exactly what our position is in it. My question is: what is the position of the Netherlands and why is the cabinet making this tight connection? Why is that necessary? There's no need to make that connection. You can live up to one ambition without the tight clutch that is now being made. I have another question for the Prime Minister. He believes that the question of the short-term and the redistribution within Europe will not be a problem of the long-term in Europe. Is he prepared not to place the fate of refugees in the hands of a number of Baltic States, but to become a leading group with countries that are benevolent?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u84	This is the second-then again: if the summit didn't succeed... I don't go along with that thought at all. I note in Europe today that many Members say that we really need to solve this problem in a coherent way. I'm really confident that that can work. I've got a lot of phone calls scheduled for the next few days. I know Diederik Samsom is doing his best in his own political circle. I'm hoping for others here, too. I also hope, of course, that Mr Wilders in his political circle will do his best to get support for these plans, and, of course, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u85	A question like that, the Prime Minister says, but as-then it's not when we look around now. The Prime Minister himself sketches it, too. There is a good chance that the short-term plan will not be supported and that we will not find a solution to the problem in the short term. That is not Europe's problem, it is all those refugees. Why doesn't the Prime Minister just say: we want to show leadership in Europe and have a leading role on this continent, so we are prepared to form a leading group? Why doesn't he say: whatever those Baltic states, which should take in a few hundred people, think of it, we're going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u86	If the Eastern European countries heard this, if Mr Klaver were in my place, they would think: well, that's good, we can just say no because they're going to do it anyway. That's not how it works, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u87	It's not a game.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u88	It's a...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u89	You say it's a game.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u90	I am not saying that, but the Eastern European countries have substantive objections and we are trying to convince them of the content. They would say: oh, it will happen anyway because you get leading groups; this, that and the other. Then you'll never get them on the content, will you? That's not wise, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u91	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u92	I suggest that the Prime Minister continue his response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u93	Yeah, that's just my suggestion. I think I have answered a few legal questions about what to do with asylum applications in Europe three times now, thanks to the many questions asked. In the first term of the Chamber there has been some discussion on the question of what a safe third country is. I hope I can shed some light on that. The Procedural Directive contains clear criteria defining a safe third country. And here it comes: the directive does not require ratification of the Refugee Convention, but only compliance with the principle of non-refoulement in accordance with the Refugee Convention. This means that there must be de facto respect for non-refoulement, which means that third countries should not send people back to a country in which they fear persecution. I say this because there was a discussion between several Members of Parliament in the first term. I come very briefly to Mrs Thieme, who made a very special link with the issue of the environment and climate. Anyway, he might not even be that weird. Let me say in general terms that the cabinet is extremely keen to ensure that all the instruments at its disposal are part of the policy. I refer, for example, to the integrated aid and trade agenda and cooperation in the political and security field, and, of course, to combating climate change, especially where it could lead to forced migration. Of course, that's not just imaginary. Now I come to the thorny issue of Syria. Will the Netherlands participate in bombings over Syria? We also debated this yesterday, so I think I will repeat what Bert Koenders, the Foreign Minister, said yesterday. The cabinet is monitoring developments in Syria very closely. We also follow the contributions of allies. The Chamber knows that we have started with five European countries. From the 26 European NATO countries, 5 have become active, including bombing, in the Iraqi part of the conflict. The Netherlands is one of them, so we walked and walked very far ahead. This is also recognised in Europe. The line of the cabinet is also laid down in the Article 100 letter on the operation against ISIS. That line follows the cabinet. It is true that there is an international mandate to intervene over Syria, but this does not mean that you do so automatically. The question whether and if so, how the Netherlands will implement this requires a separate decision. This is an independent Dutch balance and the cabinet will share that balance with the Chamber as soon as it is made. I won't anticipate it. This is an extremely sensitive issue, where all kinds of elements need to be weighed: the long-term perspective, the situation in Syria and the question of what our actions can contribute to solving the problem. We shall look at this whole matter and inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u94	If I understand correctly, will the cabinet make a decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u95	In any case, a decision as to whether or not we are going to do so. We will do so at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u96	The point is, of course, that if the cabinet can do so, it must not wait a day, because the war goes on and the contribution of the Netherlands can have great positive consequences. Can the Prime Minister indicate when a decision will be taken? These are all options that could have been weighed in recent times, aren't they? At some point this will have to be dealt with, politically or otherwise. Can the Prime Minister indicate the timetable for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u97	Before I answer that question, I underline what I said just now, namely that sometimes the picture arises that the Netherlands does very little in the region and in the fight against ISIS. We are among the original five European countries willing to bomb the Iraqi part of the conflict with our F16s. We are clearly at the forefront of this, and I think that is logical, because we are convinced that we must make a contribution. Sometimes I get the feeling in the debate that if you don't extend this very quickly to Syria, you'd be one of the last in Europe to do something. That's really not true. Nevertheless, this is a real debate on whether, given the international law situation, you should be active over Syria, but this issue has many facets and aspects. I don't commit myself at any time. As soon as the cabinet has made all the assessments and has fully mapped out the situation, we will let the Chamber know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u98	My analysis is that you have to make a decision at some point. The conflict in the north is already a number of years old and the F16s have been there for a year. I can imagine the Prime Minister saying: we want to think about this. I ask him at some point to make a decision so that the Chamber can say: good or not good. If that takes a long time, I'll ask you again. After all, the Chamber has no idea what the cabinet has to say yes or no. I may come back to this in second term, but this is my request to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u99	The request is to make a decision on it at some point. We will at some point give the Chamber an update of our thinking on this, sure. I have said this outside the microphone for the minutes at the end of the first term of the Chamber that the questions put by Mr Pechtold on his list are included in my set of answers. Mr Dijkhoff is still being discussed and he will also take a number of things with him. However, we will not now answer all the questions. We're really taking our time. It's like the famous writer who got questions about his book from a Dutch teacher. One child had sent it and he said: what can your teacher ask good questions; I can answer 30 out of 100, but for the other I need more time. That goes for the same thing here. The Court gave complex reflections on parts of the letter and asked for careful answers. I believe, however, that I have touched on the elements mentioned by Mr Pechtold. We can wait for the answer from Secretary of State Dijkhoff and if there are any pressing issues left, we can try to resolve them now, but we will not be rushed. It is an important issue and we must do it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u100	I asked about the situation in Saudi Arabia. Can the Prime Minister say anything about the contacts and his views on Saudi Arabia's contribution? Is there anything new about that? I think that's useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u101	I oppose the temptation to discuss the discussions with individual countries or the reflections on individual countries, because I believe that this will reduce the chances of success of the medium-term perspective that the cabinet is laying down here. This can only be done in confidentiality. It goes without saying that the Chamber is free to have views on what countries in the region are doing or are not doing. In my view, it does not contribute to the cabinet's objective if I am to participate in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u102	I had asked another question about the extra efforts that the cabinet is going to make in terms of integrating the extra influx that we can expect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u103	I see that Mr Dijkhoff will go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u104	Mr. Chairman. I must say, however, that after all the previous interruptions with the Prime Minister, the list has become quite clear. I have thought for a moment of taking a long introduction to compensate for that, but my assessment is that it is not a bad thing if I only answer the questions that remain. I am, of course, prepared to respond to any interruption of the Chamber if there is still a need for more. One of the crucial questions asked by Mr Roemer is whether the Netherlands can handle the current influx. Some questions you get every day and you can give the same answer by default, but this is a question where I think about it every day if the answer is yes. Today's answer is yes, but the situation is that it's squeaking and cracking, that everyone's doing everything in the organization and that we're recruiting people, who of course still have to be trained. People who have applied for asylum must wait a little longer for an answer. All cooperation from interested parties and also from the municipalities is necessary. It is not the case that we are well in our jacket and can afford a great deal of delay, because it can immediately lead to the organisation having difficulty dealing with the situation. So far we have managed to have beds for everyone every day, and that remains the goal, but I'm not saying it's spacious. In particular, the flow of licence holders who live in an asylum-seekers' centre and who should have lived in a municipality on paper, according to the system, is a bottleneck. We are talking to the municipalities to see if we can speed that up, so that the beds in the asylum seekers' centre are used again by people for whom they are really conceived.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u105	That makes it clear that the predecessor of the Secretary of State has messed up. He scared us last year by saying that there would be 65,000 asylum seekers. Eventually, it was 26,000. Secretary of State Teeven of course took into account the 65,000 he announced for the whole of the Netherlands. So I'm assuming there's a room of 40,000 places.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u106	There is that space, as I said, but a lot of these places are now being occupied by people who should have lived in a municipality already, and so no longer in an asylum-seekers' centre, and you can't blame those people for that. In addition, my predecessor has a message in a week. We have also seen in the Chamber that a high number will come out, if you take the highest weekly influx and extrapolate it by 52. If it's so much every week, then... that's what Mr. Wilders did in the first term with the influx of 1,800 a week we have now. We also had weeks in spring with 300. I also often get to my head that I can't count because I predict between 35,000 and 40,000 people, while there are now 1,800 in the week, but that's because not every week is the same. We've prepared and deployed additional capacity. There are additional sections with municipalities. We now come out above the top of those estimates, so that it is necessary to speed up the procedures to be able to handle it. I think this also applies to the countries around us, such as Germany, in the announcement of 800,000. 30% to 40% comes from the Balkans and therefore does not need reception or temporary or permanent asylum. There too you can see that the numbers are higher than others expected.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u107	Then let me compliment this Secretary of State. I thought he was giving a refreshing interview recently. He doesn't go along with the feeling that you have to spread the highest number of the week directly throughout the year. I'm glad that atmosphere is changing under his responsibility. However, in view of last year's announcement, I believe that this cabinet should have done even more to prepare for reception. That has to do with people not flowing into homes. According to the Secretary of State, we now need leaders with guts, who create space for that within their congregation. We need to put all the pressure on that. I hope that the Secretary of State will also let us know at a later date what progress has been made in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u108	Yeah, sure. I am thinking not only of pressure on municipalities, but also of cooperation. I understand that it is not possible to find a solution in one week for the number per municipality that will be provided according to the table. So we're not just calling to say, "Hurry up." We are also really looking at how we can come up with creative solutions together and ensure flow. In the last few weeks of the recess, I sent an update to the Chamber. If there is another update soon, I will also send it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u109	Maybe I can give something to the Secretary of State in this round. A round table was held in the Chamber yesterday. The VNG, COA, RefugeeWork Nederland et cetera met then. There were also voluntary organisations, which have now collected thousands of addresses and names from host families. I actually came to the conclusion that, apart from all the obstacles and questions you may have, there is no directing on matching host families with current status holders in the azc's. Does the Secretary of State want to actively direct this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u110	I'm gonna have to put a nuance in that. We do, of course, have that direction, especially when it comes to placing minors in foster homes. We have had good experience of this and we do. Now there's some sort of luxury problem. The spontaneous supply from society is very large. The direction is there, but the pace is not so high that you can do everything right away. That direction stays. One of these days, I am opening the "self-care" arrangement........................................................................................................................................................... This will make it easier for people to find shelter on such an occasion and no longer have to create a place in the asylum-seekers' centre. In the end, that is more affordable for us and often more pleasant for those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u111	Yesterday, during the round table, we noticed that the COA is looking at the VNG and that the VNG is looking at Refugee Work Netherlands again. If we continue to look at each other like this, it will frustrate the host families who are now prepared to take the people out of the azc's. I would ask the Secretary of State to sit down with the VNG to look at the matching and direct the two possibilities that are now available. I understand ZZA will be available.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u112	This certainly has the attention. If you ask the parties one by one questions during a hearing, they will also stress if they feel that another should help. Fortunately, I usually sit at the table with all of them and we don't look at each other, but with each other at the problem. I feel the commitment of all those parties to manage this properly. However, luxury problems such as a wide range of volunteers, spontaneity and support are also problems in the short term. However, I agree with Mr Voordewind that this should not lead to this, and what I am saying now is well meant that the spontaneous offer falls into hobbyism. We must maintain the professional link, with care for the refugee. Since the lhbt'ers were explicitly mentioned in the letter, Mr Van der Staaij asked whether this also applies to others such as Christians. In the plan we have, resettlement, limited, is ultimately the potential route from regional reception to Europe. In practice, the element of faith will be a major factor in assessing the vulnerability of people. Our resettlement efforts are traditionally aimed at giving vulnerable people priority to resettlement. This also applies to people who are generally safe in regional care but for whom conditions are inadequate in a specific case. So that is certainly a factor that is being taken into account. Mrs Thieme has asked about the intermediate model, the intermediate phase; I have to make the conceptual distinction. About that phase, the cabinet says: you have emergency solutions that can be discussed when there is commitment to the final plan. In that we would like to show even more ambition. We want an EU asylum system where you do not get national asylum but a European asylum with a place of employment. Then how do you avoid calling yourself Romania as a place of employment and being reported here after two days? For this purpose, the Commission proposes a five-year period within which people must remain in that position. A possible use of social security is linked to that place of employment. Furthermore, many questions have been asked which I would like to answer, but which I do not do because it would be a double in relation to the exchange of views with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u113	This has put an end to the government's first-term response. I assume there is a need for a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u114	Mr. Chairman. There is a plan of the cabinet, a letter that is usually inimitable, not only for the opposition, but also for the coalition. It's explainable the way you want it. The VVD says that the plan should ultimately lead to more people being received in the region and less influx into Europe. The PvdA says that the pressure valve is needed, that Europe needs to resettle more people. It was up to the Prime Minister to find the middle line in his first term. He didn't think so. He chose very clearly. He indicated that this will eventually take care of it and that it is also the ambition, that fewer refugees come to Europe and fewer refugees to the Netherlands. That's clear. It's not my choice, but it's a clear choice. We have also talked about the linking of the long-term plan, as far as I am concerned, an unsavoury long-term plan, to the short term and the fact that it is very strange to link it so tightly. I cannot escape the impression that this is mainly to keep coalition interests together and not so much to help refugees. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has presented a coherent plan containing both a short-term component and a long-term component;]] [[Whereas the urgency of the short-term plans, including the distribution of refugees between Europe and additional resources for refugee camps in the region, is such that their implementation cannot be conditional on a long-term agenda;]] [[calls on the Government to implement immediately its proposed plans for a common European asylum policy in the short term and not to make conditional on the EU's support for its desired long-term solutions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Roemer, Mr Pechtold, Mr Voordewind, Mr Thieme, Mr Kuzu and Mr Klein.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2031]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u115	Finally, integration. As politicians, we must be very careful to say that the people who come with the current influx will stay temporarily and eventually leave. I think the reality is that up to three quarters of those people will stay here. And those are our new countrymen. We should not let those people figure it out for a number of years. We must allow them to be integrated from the very beginning. If we do not, I am very afraid of the consequences for the acceptance of these people in the Netherlands and the reintegration of new refugees. Since the cabinet has not said anything about it so far and is doing far too little about it, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas two thirds of asylum seekers are ultimately granted a residence permit;]] [[noting that asylum procedures often last for years and that the possibilities for integration through work or professional training for asylum seekers are very limited;]] [[Whereas it is very important that foreigners are already able to integrate into Dutch society during their asylum procedure;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a plan of action to increase the integration of foreigners through work and training, to mobilise the necessary resources and to inform the Court of Justice on this matter for the consideration of the Social Affairs and Employment budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Pechtold, Mr Voordewind, Mr Thieme, Mr Kuzu and Mr Klein.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2032]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u116	The VVD is also in favour of integrating people who have a residence permit in the Netherlands and who may remain here permanently. Mr. Klaver suggests that you can actually do this from day one. It is not going to be, I would ask Mr Klaver to clarify, that this again leads to rejected asylum applications in which his party argues that the rejected people are so well integrated that they must remain. Hopefully he will continue to support that someone who is rejected, whether or not being integrated, should simply leave?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u117	We have the rules as we know them. For me, the most important thing is that we have to face the reality that most of the people who come here and apply for asylum get that too. I do not want to focus on the small part that is rejected, but on the large group that will eventually stay. If all procedures have been completed and people are ultimately rejected, they will be deported in principle. But as far as I'm concerned, there are always exceptions. For example, when it comes to children who are simply rooted here, I believe that the cabinet or the person responsible should use his discretion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u118	That is exactly why I asked the question, because in fact Mr Klaver wants to introduce a shortcut here for people who have done so. That may be good, but when you do, the "rooted" principle comes to light. So if you're well integrated and you're rejected, you're probably allowed to stay according to GroenLinks. Then we'll be putting the horse behind the cart again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u119	I just said it clearly. I just made an exception. If you come here and you don't follow the rules, you're gonna have to leave eventually. I made one exception, for children who have been here for a long time and who are rooted. As far as I'm concerned, don't send it away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u120	Mr. Chairman. This debate has, in my view, painfully revealed that our coalition parties have a completely different explanation of the cabinet plan. The PvdA says: Lebanon is full, the VVD then says: Lebanon can have up to 120,000 people. The PvdA says: we are going to take in more people, the VVD says: it is only when the European Union promises to close the external borders that we can temporarily take in more people. The VVD is talking about a tough demand, a condition for finally abolishing the fundamental right to asylum, the PvdA ignores this. The PvdA allows the Netherlands to make a complete fool of themselves in Europe with a plan that has long been served. Mogherini says: I do not intend to implement this plan, because Zijlstra can demand what he wants, but this decision will be taken, there seems to be a qualified majority in the Council for a long time and these proposals are binding. That's why I'm filing the following motions. The first concerns the qualified majority to which the first part of the proposal applies. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas decision-making in the European Council will take place by qualified majority;]] [[Whereas the proposals for European resettlement and redistribution are binding;]] [[calls on the Government to implement generously a decision taken by qualified majority on the European Commission's migration plans,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pechtold, Mr Voordewind and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2033]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u121	One of the plans for Monday, not discussed today, is that each country gets €6,000 per asylum seeker placed. My group thinks that's kind of crazy. That's about 750 million in conversion. Please, let us use that money for shelter in the region. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the binding key for relocation of asylum seekers, the European Commission pays €6,000 per asylum seeker placed to the host Member State;]] [[whereas both the European Commission and the Cabinet commit themselves to substantial additional support for reception in the region;]] [[calls on the government, in the Council, to promote investment and assistance to the region rather than to the Member States themselves,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pechtold, Mr Voordewind and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2034]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u122	My final comment was on the fundamental right to asylum. I have a motion for a resolution on this too. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands has committed itself in several international conventions to the fundamental right to asylum;]] [[Whereas, in accordance with the current proposals of the Cabinet, the fundamental right to asylum will eventually be undermined;]] [[calls on the Government not to accept in any way any violation of the fundamental right to asylum,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pechtold. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2035]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u123	Mr. Chairman. I'm getting a bit of a déjà vu. This debate looks like the bed-bath-bath debate. There are great differences of understanding about the solutions between the two coalition parties, even though those solutions are already on paper. Somehow that's very sad. I also get a bad taste when the Prime Minister says, on the one hand, that refugees are in very bad conditions in the region around Syria, but, on the other hand, that the countries around them should do it themselves. A bag of Dutch money is available for this and there are the necessary encouragements from this cabinet, but the fact is that children do not receive education there. Never mind that people there have a perspective on work. We've talked about the terrible circumstances. My fellow party members have seen with their own eyes how vulnerable children are in the region of Syria, Lebanon or Turkey. To prevent a lost generation, I submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the cabinet intends to work at EU level to improve the prospects for refugees currently and in the future in the region around Syria;]] [[Whereas the situation for children in particular in this region is in many cases appalling and that children in, for example, a country such as Lebanon, where they have to lack the most basic things such as safe housing, medical care, automatic protection and training, are in unacceptable danger;]] [[calls on the Government to express its views both independently and at EU level on a more generous resettlement policy in relation to families with young children and to broaden the current Dutch quota,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Roemer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2036]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u124	We talked about refugees. I just had a debate with the Prime Minister about removing the causes. One of the causes is instability in the region. Another cause concerns the run through poverty. Fair trade is particularly lacking in Africa. Let's face it: we can give with one hand, but if we take away a lot with the other hand, we won't shoot anything. Ten times as much money flows from African developing countries every year than it gets. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the solutions proposed by both the Cabinet and the European Commission focus solely on the fight against symptom rather than on the causes of migratory flows;]] [[Whereas one of the causes of migratory flows is the weak economy and the resulting high unemployment in Africa;]] [[whereas the government made available EUR 50 million earlier this year to strengthen the economy and employment in Africa;]] [[whereas African countries miss EUR 10 billion each year due to tax avoidance;]] [[calls on the Government to link the resources for strengthening the economy and employment in Africa with the reduction of tax avoidance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Roemer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2037]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u125	Madam President. The Islamic invasion has received the green light today. Chamber and cabinet have actually been behind that. Our Prime Minister won't even let you say the word "islam." He'd rather not talk about it at all. Let's all put our heads in the sand and surrender. Mr Rutte is the leader of the cultural kamikaze of the Netherlands. There's a total lack of urgency here. One is also completely detached from the feelings and thoughts that live outside this Chamber, with the common man and the ordinary woman. They do not want the borders to remain wide open thanks to the VVD. They do not want 1,800 asylum seekers to come in a week and, as if 1,800 per week were not enough, another 9,000 will be added in the near future. There'll be a lot more if all these people make their relatives come over. They also do not want us to cost €36,000 per asylum seeker. People in the Netherlands do not want that, not because I say so, but because it is clear from all the polls and reactions. Anyone who says they're not, they're foreign to the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u126	1,800 a week. The Secretary of State just said that happened a week ago. There are also weeks with 300 asylum seekers. Is Mr Wilders holding on to this or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u127	Sure, and it's gonna be a lot more. At the interrupt microphone there is such a person who has been sticking his head in the sand for years: the great denier of the Netherlands. That is what Mr Pechtold is. In one night, 3,700 people travelled from Hungary to Austria. 3,300 people have travelled from Serbia to Hungary. They're coming through, too. So that's 7,000 in one night. And I'm only talking about one route. From 1,800 it goes more to 2,000 or 2,500 than it gets less. There's gonna be a lot more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u128	But there aren't any. There are even fewer of them than in the 1990s, when Mr Wilders was just sitting here as a Member of Parliament and accepted it all. There's less of them now. According to Mr Wilders, I'm sticking my head in the sand. I don't know what he's putting his head in.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u129	You're sticking your head in the sand. It is a bit difficult, because they are all miserable interruptions by Mr Pechtold, which means that I have to repeat what I have said before. Mrs Merkel says 800,000 people are coming to Germany this year. I say times three, because they certainly have two people in family formation and family reunification. So we are talking about 2.5 million people. In the Netherlands, the figures also go in this direction to a slightly lesser extent. That's not just an invasion, it's huge numbers. The Netherlands doesn't want this. Mr Pechtold, the Netherlands does not want this. You've all been sung away from reality here. If Dutch people can choose whether they can spend the €36.000 per asylum seeker here in the Netherlands, then the choice is made quickly. I think it's a disgrace. I read and receive e-mails from the elderly of the Netherlands. It's about people who can't afford their own health care risk anymore. It's about people who leave their drugs at the pharmacy because they can't afford them. Yesterday, I received an e-mail from a father who was angry because his daughter working in the care sector, who had to look after 71 elderly people on her own that night. If there had been a fire, those old people would have died. While we have these problems in the Netherlands, we are going to give hundreds of millions to asylum seekers. People like Mr Pechtold are not only lost, but they should be ashamed of themselves. Hence only one conclusion: close borders, introduce border controls, take care of the region and spend the money here and nowhere else. Not only because the PVV wants to, but because the survival of our country is at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u130	Mr. Chairman. I've heard the government's reaction, and it's disappointing. We have heard Mr Klaver van GroenLinks today. He was worried about the children of Lebanon. I have two small children myself, and I am genuinely concerned about the consequences of open border policy, about the future of our country and about the future of our own children. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands, like other European countries, is faced with the arrival of huge numbers of asylum seekers;]] [[Whereas this development entails exorbitant costs;]] [[Whereas it will exacerbate the problems of integration which already exist;]] [[Whereas the AIVD has indicated that asylum seekers are being recruited by terrorist organisations;]] [[Whereas all this is far beyond the absorption capacity of our country and poses a danger to our country's security;]] [[noting, however, that the cabinet continues to pursue a policy of continuing to bring large groups of asylum seekers to our country;]] [[declares confidence in the cabinet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Klaveren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2038]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u131	Mr. Chairman. The two letters from the cabinet, or should I say 'the two coalitions', concerned both the short and the long term. For the short term, the cabinet proposes that all refugees arriving in Europe should be distributed among the Member States. I have to say that the answer to the questions on this matter was in fact what happened a lot in this debate: the Prime Minister does not answer if he does not like politics anymore and he responds extensively when it suits him politically. That is why I repeat my question. It is estimated that some million refugees will be coming to Europe this year. There's 800,000 coming to Germany alone. That is not my estimate, it is Europe's estimate. What does that mean for the arrival of refugees in the Netherlands, if Europe, as the cabinet wants, will divide all refugees? Is it true that this is considerably more than the current estimated numbers? Next to the longer term: are the borders closing or not closing? I'll come back to something that changed in the first term. I then asked a question to Mr Zijlstra about the fact that the VVD always calls for all borders to be closed. Mr Zijlstra replied: no, others say that we say that. It is at the heart of the story for me, because in my opinion, if I may use that big word, there is the big lie, namely that all boundaries could ever be closed. I only had to go back to Mr Azmani's plan to read: there are no more asylum applications within Europe and the European external borders are really closing. Stand in front of it! I say in turn: acknowledge that this will never happen. There is some consensus in the Chamber about what needs to be done, namely tackling the source and redistributing some of the refugees. I briefly spoke with the Prime Minister about tackling this source when we talked about fighting IS in Syria. I realize that it is not customary, and I will not do so in order for the Chamber to ask the Cabinet to take military action by way of motion. What I do want to do is call on the Cabinet to make a decision in the short term. People know what the CDA thinks about this, but we have to make a choice at some point. Hence my first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the issue of refugees requires addressing the root causes and that an important root cause is the atrocities of IS;]] [[noting that there is a legal basis under international law to combat IS in Syria;]] [[calls on the government, in the short term, to report to the House of Representatives whether the Netherlands is prepared to contribute to the growing coalition of countries that are also fighting IS in Syria;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haersma Buma and Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2039]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u132	My second motion seeks to put more action on the goal that can be achieved. In any case, there must be more reception in the region. That is very difficult because, as we have all discussed, it requires international consultation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas increasing reception of refugees in the region and checking their asylum applications in the region of origin requires intensive European and international consultation;]] [[noting that the Netherlands as President of the European Union has an excellent opportunity to set the agenda in the first half of 2016;]] [[calls on the government, during the Dutch Presidency of the EU, to make the sustainable approach to the refugee crisis a key priority,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Haersma Buma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2040]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u133	I had it settled for a while, but I do not understand Mr Buma's logic. He blames the VVD that we are still standing for what we wrote down in March and the cabinet that is about to execute. He said that we would do something different than we promised. I believe that we have indicated that reception is needed in the region and that there is no right to asylum in the Netherlands if there is such a reception. I think it is right that Mr Buma should use the words 'close borders' for this purpose. That's okay, because that's what's being arranged here. But then he comes up with a very strange reasoning to show that that would not be consistent. Can he try to explain it to me again, because I just don't understand him?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u134	I'd love to. Mr Zijlstra says again that it is best if I call it that, but when I asked him this morning whether the VVD wants to close all borders in Europe, he said: that is what others say, but want to go to all shelter there, and so on. I actually read here that the VVD says: if what we want to do is to close all the borders of Europe. I'm telling you, this is never gonna happen. That is why it is a lie, because Mr Zijlstra knows that it will never happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u135	I understand the confusion, because Mr Buma says it absolutely, but we did not say it that way. It applies to those people who are in a safe region, but there are also regions where no security can be provided. That doesn't mean the border's closed. If that is what Mr Buma means, it is true, but for those people who have a safe haven nearby, it is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u136	Well, do I have to repeat Mr Zijlstra's text again? "There are no more asylum applications within Europe and the European external borders are really closing." These are the words of Mr Azmani and Mr Zijlstra. Finally, what I'm saying is recognized. At last we can all say: you know it will never happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u137	Mr. Chairman. If an outsider listens to this debate, he may get the impression that the cabinet letter on this subject is a very philosophical letter. The letter is interpreted in different ways by the different coalition partners, but I think the explanation of the cabinet is clear. There's a conditionality in it. We do not consider them desirable. That is why we have co-signed Mr Klaver's motion. Furthermore, we will support all the motions which tend towards humanity and humanity. We have an international, European and national responsibility. I would like to table a motion on this national responsibility, because there is something we can do now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in the event of doubts about a person's date of birth, the IND regularly places the date of birth "00-00-year' on the asylum permit of people;]] [[noting that this is estimated to be 17,000 people and that this number is increasing on a daily basis;]] [[noting that people with the date of birth "00-00-year" are facing enormous practical problems (when they take out insurance, telephone subscriptions, etc.) and their lives become bureaucratic;]] [[calls on the Government, with great urgency, to look at this problem and make proposals to resolve it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2041]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u138	Madam President. I thank the rulers for their reply. We have all referred to images that have touched us all. These images say that what has to be done, but not what has to be done in the end. This also calls for a political debate which we have had with each other today. Dead power is extremely important, but the implementation requires thought for the short and long term. We support the approach of strengthening the humane reception of refugees within Europe, but also the improvement of reception in the region itself, linked to long-term registration and reception in the region. The SGP Group is right to consider this link, which also makes the cabinet. I am grateful to the Secretary of State for the commitment to take explicit account of the position of Christians in the context of resettlement, in addition to the position of those already mentioned. I have another motion on the cost of receiving asylum seekers. We believe it is important that the cost of receiving asylum seekers who have come here from other parts of Europe should not be at the expense of the commitment to development cooperation, the reduced budget for development cooperation that we are already dealing with. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the costs of receiving asylum seekers in the Netherlands are to a large extent borne by resources designed, inter alia, to strengthen regions of origin, while the strengthening of these regions is indispensable to address migration problems at source;]] [[calls on the Government to aim to ensure that rising costs for the reception of asylum seekers in the Netherlands are not charged from the development cooperation budget as a result of European agreements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2042]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u139	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for answering and explaining the letter. It became clear from that explanation that a link was established between the inclusion of refugees in Europe and the Netherlands and the long-term strategy. My group rejects that link. The need for care is now and that is why we need to act now. That is why we supported Mr Klaver's motion. For better reception in the region, serious investment must be made there. This must not be at the expense of development cooperation; hence the support for Mr Van der Staaij's motion. We have also discussed resettlement, on which I refer to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been an unprecedented humanitarian crisis at the external borders of Europe which has led to a significant flow of migration accompanied by enormous risks for refugees;]] [[Whereas additional vulnerable groups such as women, Christians and LBTs are often unable to flee to safe countries;]] [[calls on the Government to increase the number of refugees invited through the UNHCR resettlement programme, paying particular attention to these vulnerable groups,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind, Mr Slob, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Klaver and Mr Roemer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2043]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u140	The last motion concerns a crucial point for my group, namely the right to apply for asylum. We should not want to end that, even if we look at the right of registration in Africa or the Middle East. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet has presented a long-term migration plan for asylum seekers outside Europe, which is at odds with international obligations such as those laid down in the European Convention on Human Rights, the UN Refugee Convention and the International Convention on the Rights of the Child;]] [[calls on the Government not to undermine the principle of non-refoulement and to maintain the right of asylum seekers to apply for asylum in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind, Mr Slob, Mr Klaver and Mr Roemer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2044]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u141	Mr. Chairman. It is a very lively debate as a whole and in part also an understandable debate; understandable because a number of opposition parties have used this debate to discover the light between the VVD and the Labour Party, when it comes to our vision of refugee and asylum issues. That effort has been appreciated, and it has been successful. That is not surprising, because there is a huge difference in the way the VVD and the Labour Party look at the refugee and asylum issues. That difference was there at the beginning of this period and it will still be there at the end of this period. During this period, however, the PvdA and the VVD have a duty not only to them but also to all other parties to bridge those differences and to do what is necessary. In many cases that kind of compromise led to the agreement: if you don't do this, I won't. Mr Pechtold can always say so tasty about that. Then we don't make it difficult for each other, but the world hasn't made any progress. The bed-bath-bread crisis was a good example that it didn't always work out, but in this case the VVD and the Labour Party managed to say: I think this is very important and that is very important to you. Actually, we think it's important that we both do it because it's both necessary. It's now ten past four, it's getting dark in Turkey. Tonight, there's just a bunch of people getting into a boat like that again. We have to do everything we can to stop that. So that means resettlement. The people who have already made the crossing are in terrible circumstances. Lesbos is the worst right now. At the same time, you must make every effort to ensure that the urge, the despair, which leads to such a trip with a boat, is taken away. That means investing in the region. This means creating opportunities for resettlement, and so the ambition and vision "I am pleased that this Prime Minister is now taking up this point that it can also be a safe region. It is not a misunderstanding about this now, but it can be if we try hard enough. There are discussions here about the link. In view of the debate that is really taking place in Europe, those who are concerned about one part must make a firm plea for a link. Because the one aspect that the Prime Minister and I are quite right to be very concerned about is the need for urgent redistribution of all those asylum seekers who are currently in appalling conditions in southern Italy, southern Greece and Hungary. When you see what everyone brings into the discussion today, again in the Permanent Representation, 28 PV's, the highest officials, preparations are being made.It's getting cold around the heart. I would like to call on colleagues to speak in favour of the linking. The least controversial element is regional investment and increasing resettlement opportunities. The most controversial element, which may well be in danger of dying, is the part of resettlement of asylum seekers who are now in very difficult conditions. I'm making an urgent appeal to hold that link. Mr Pechtold's logic in his interruption was to let go of the clutch, so that both parts reach the finish line. I may be a little too much beta, but I don't understand that logic. If you want to get both parts to the finish line and you see that a part has a stronger engine, the regional investments and the resettlement possibilities, you have to stick to the link. That is what we are trying to persuade the countries to do. I'll make another call. Indeed, as I said in my first term, we all have political families. I almost forgot to mention Mr Pechtold. His political family is still the most proud of its European character. Estonia's Prime Minister Rõivas, Liberal and ALDE Party member, is currently opposed to various proposals for resettlement in Europe. Get the phone, grab that opportunity. I would also like to make that appeal to Mr Buma. Mr Buma, I know how difficult it is, but you will continue to try especially with your political relative Orbán. And we have a few more to go, too. The Social Democrats, too, have a hard time with our colleagues Fico and Sobotka in Slovakia and the Czech Republic. That's where it has to be done, colleagues. Here in The Hague everything happens, including The Hague's game. I'm in on it myself. I love it. But if we really want to do something for these refugees, we will now have to mobilise all the European forces we have. For that, you can look at the cabinet. That's okay, that's their role, that's what they're paid for. I think they should, but we can also play our part. Go do so so so that we can finally put an end to this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u142	We listen again to Mr Samsom's sonata pathéique all over the world, but let's try to bring it close to home. I asked the Prime Minister a question he didn't want to answer. What exactly is the consequence of one of the choices? All refugees in Europe must be divided. That's one of the elements of the letter. Is Mr Samsom prepared to say what the Prime Minister is trying to circumvent but knows, namely how many people this year could be in the Netherlands? On the basis of a certain percentage of about 1 million tonnes, which are the European estimates, it would be up to 60 000.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u143	The Prime Minister didn't want to see that calculation as a historian. Of course, I'm inclined to make her. I don't know if it's a million. I know what percentage it will lead to if we come to a redistribution mechanism in Europe. The Labour Party has advocated this and the Cabinet is now taking it over as a structural step after the acceptable emergency measure. I must put it this way, because this emergency measure is acceptable, but not ideal. This structural step will indeed lead to a percentage lying around 5. This is always the case with the distribution keys in Europe, whether they are money or customs charges. That percentage is always around 5. Depending on the total inflow, 5% will end up in the Netherlands. At the moment we are expecting about 50,000 asylum seekers in the Netherlands this year. Maybe it's a coincidence, but that's about 5% of 1 million. However, we would rather create a fair distribution than let it be decided by chance, because then it does not matter where you enter Europe and prevent 71 people from getting into a truck because they want to go to Austria or Germany and die.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u144	I am glad that Mr Samsom is going in the direction of an answer. I understand that he is adjusting the 6% it is going to apply for more than we are now getting down to prevent him from saying that it is going to be more than this year. I appreciate it very much, and I keep saying that he acknowledges that there is much more going on, but if the Cabinet writes down what it is going to do, I honestly think it should write down its consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u145	Then there's been a misunderstanding. I didn't want to avoid mentioning a higher number. I just thought I knew better than Mr Buma, but you should never think that. That's very unwise. That goes with his calculation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u146	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Cabinet for the clear answer. It was clear today and the letter was clear as well. There must be sustainable and safe reception in the region, and if it is offered, there is no right to asylum in Europe for people from that region. The refugee treaties do not stand in the way of this, as the cabinet clearly said, and even the Procedural Directive does not seem to need to be amended, as I initially thought. That's good news. The debate today was very often about technology, about legal matters, and about 'The Hague' with all due respect. But that's not the point at all. This is about people. It's about people taking advantage of everything to come to Europe. I totally understand that. Imagine if you were in that situation yourself. Then you understand that's what people want. Those people therefore pay unscrupulous human smugglers and take enormous risks, leading to death too often. That's why we see these horrible images. That's why the VVD wants a real solution. That is why we support the cabinet plan, because it is the first time that a European government has provided a solution. I hope other parties will support this. We can continue to see all kinds of bears on the road and talk about them for a very long time, but we can also, as politicians, see the possibilities and try to prevent many, many thousands of people from dying unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u147	This brought an end to the second term of the Chamber. The government has indicated that it would like to discuss the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u148	Before we begin the second-term response by the government, with a response to the motions tabled, two motions will be amended. I shall first give the floor to Mr Roemer. It's about the motion in part No. 2037.Before we begin the government's second-term response, with a response to the motions tabled, two motions will be amended. I shall first give the floor to Mr Roemer. It's about the motion in part No. 2037.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u149	Mr. Chairman. That's right. I have changed the second recital. There is also a slight change in the operative part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u150	The Roemer motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the solutions proposed by both the Cabinet and the European Commission focus solely on the fight against symptom rather than on the causes of migratory flows;]] [[Whereas one of the causes of migratory flows is the weak economy and the resulting high unemployment in Africa;]] [[whereas the European Commission's plans provide EUR 1.8 billion through a trust fund to "help solve the root causes of migration in Africa";]] [[whereas African countries miss EUR 10 billion each year due to tax avoidance;]] [[calls on the Government to act independently and at EU level in addition to mobilising resources to address "deeper causes of migration in Africa" and to develop initiatives to reduce tax avoidance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 2037 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u151	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. The second recital lapses, and where "right to asylum" becomes the "right to asylum."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u152	The signature has also changed, I understand.The signature has also changed, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u153	Sure. GroenLinks signs with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u154	The Pechtold motion (No ) has been amended to the effect that it has now been signed by Mr Pechtold and Mr Klaver and reads: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands has committed itself in several international conventions to the fundamental right to asylum;]] [[calls on the Government not to accept in any way any violation of the fundamental right to asylum,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 2035 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u155	Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u156	Mr. Chairman. I have a slight change in the motion in part No. 2044.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u157	I don't think you'd passed on this change before, but I don't think you'd passed it on before.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u158	No. It is a change in the recital. This will be a finding: "noting that the Netherlands has international obligations'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u159	The Voordewind c.s. motion (, No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been an unprecedented humanitarian crisis leading to significant flows of refugees to Europe;]] [[whereas the Cabinet has presented a migration plan requiring asylum seekers outside Europe in the long term;]] [[noting that the Netherlands has international obligations, including those laid down in the European Convention on Human Rights, the UN Refugee Convention and the International Convention on the Rights of the Child;]] [[calls on the Government not to undermine the principle of non-refoulement and to maintain the right of asylum seekers to apply for asylum in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 2044 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u160	We will ensure that the new text is distributed as soon as possible. The cabinet does not yet have this amended motion. We will ensure that the cabinet receives them as soon as possible. I shall now give the floor to the Prime Minister in the second term for his response to the motions and outstanding questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u161	Mr. Chairman. In the first term, I said that I would do everything in my power not to upset Mr Buma. I think I can meet him even further by giving an in-depth response to his calculation of the consequences of the cabinet plans for the influx into Europe and the Netherlands. Having listened to his argument in second term, I would like to add a few reflections. First of all, in such a divisional proposal by the cabinet, we must look at the people who actually get an asylum permit, while Mr Buma's figures are about the influx. On average, roughly half of the number of applications made in Europe so far in 2015, EU-wide actually leads to an asylum permit: 49%. In the Netherlands, this percentage is slightly higher. An illustration of this is the situation in Germany. Indeed, the German Government estimates that there will be an influx of 800 000, but at the same time it reports that 30% to 40% of them come from safe countries. They do not receive asylum and, in the event of a redistribution system suggested by the cabinet, they would not ultimately be included. As is well known, the figures for the Netherlands are considerably lower for the current year; the Secretary of State for V and J said a few words about this. So there are a few comments on Mr Buma's calculations, in addition to what I said about them in the first term. I will deal with a number of motions and the Secretary of State will deal with the other motions. First of all, I will deal with the Klever c.s. motion. in piece No. 2031. For me, for the cabinet and for the coalition, the combination is essential. I am very concerned about the debate in Europe. I am not so much concerned, as I am now looking at the matter, about the medium-term perspective of the cabinet. I'm worried about the shorter term. At 6 p.m. I have a call with my Czech colleague. I know that several people here in this House will try to find those contacts on the party political axis, precisely to show that the combination of what the Netherlands is proposing here can really remove some concerns in Eastern Europe for the shorter term. That's really my conviction. I agree with the reasoning of the foreman of the Labour Party in second term. I think this one's right. Care is not so much focused on the longer term as on the shorter term. It's a coherent package. For all these reasons, I would like to discourage this motion. The motion-Pechtold c.s. in piece No. 2033 is superfluous, because QMV is legally binding. There's no way to do anything with that. QMV is QMV and then you have to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u162	If that motion is unnecessary, you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u163	Dissuade, for that reason. The Roemer motion in part No. 2036 is about a more generous resettlement policy. In my opinion, it is premature and therefore I advise against it. It is part of the cabinet plans to further develop this. It is not appropriate to deepen one element already. I think that we should look at how we are shaping these kinds of elements in the discussions in Europe, and certainly afterwards with countries in the region. I think it's really premature. This is something for the future, part of the medium-term policy. The same applies to the motion by Mr Voordewind and Mr Slob and others. in piece No. 2043 on the same subject, with the same argument. It is also premature and therefore not recommended. Then I come to the Roemer motion in part No. 2037. This one's about Africa. As far as I am concerned, this motion should be dealt with when dealing with the Tax Plan. My suggestion to the Socialist Party is therefore to hold the motion and deal with it in the Tax Plan. I know that the motion has now been amended, but I honestly do not think it is appropriate here. I also believe that the operative part is not supported by the various recitals. I come to the conclusion, also because of what we are doing at EU and OECD level, that if the motion were to be put to the vote, my tendency would be to discourage it. Let's see how this falls, if it is framed in a broader discussion in the Tax Plan. Then there are also issues such as BEPS, OECD, rulings and so on. For the sake of clarity, I shall put the Van Klaver motion to the vote. 2038. I have already replied to Mr Van Haersma Buma on the motion for a resolution on item No. 2039. The cabinet will inform the Chamber about the progress of the talks on how we look at whether or not to broaden the bombings to Syria. As far as I am concerned, this motion is superfluous. That's why I advise against this motion. This also applies to the Van Haersma Buma motion in part No. 2040. At yesterday's State of the Union and in the letter of intent for 2016, this issue was one of the five priorities in the Council's strategic agenda. I fully agree with Mr Van Haersma Buma that the Dutch Presidency will, of course and without doubt, be working on this to a large extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u164	Let me see if we are talking about the same thing: this replaces the four priorities that have been put forward so far? One of the Presidency's priorities was that Europe should focus on the main priorities. This can also be changed into the priority refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u165	It's getting complicated now. Of course, the cabinet's focus in the European Presidency is on employment, the economy, the relevance of the common market, the digital agenda and so on. I assume that I find Mr Buma entirely on my side. The second priority is a Europe of key issues and not of secondary issues. That's what this is all about. It will immediately fall under focus point 2. Paragraph 3 is the Europe that connects. It therefore does not prejudice the commitment of the Netherlands to the Presidency, but it fits brilliantly in. It's actually in the State of the Union. This one even started it. I haven't been able to see these, but I understand from the media reports that this was the central point in the State of the Union. We don't have a disagreement about that. Mr Buma and I share that view. I would ask the President to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to comment on the other motions. If it is correct, all motions should then be commented on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u166	We're gonna keep track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u167	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the Klever c.s. motion. in piece No. 2032. I'll advise against this, but I'll do it with an explanation. When I read the motion, it's like nothing can happen right now, and it just isn't. The operative part refers to foreigners. These fall into two categories: the licence holders and those who are still in proceedings. Authorisation holders may work. Wide-ranging education is also available for them. Students will of course first receive language training, but also regular education. Language teaching is also available on a professional basis for adults. People whose proceedings are still ongoing and who have not received a permit after six months and who have not received a rejection may also work under conditions. I do not have the idea that the regulation would create problems that would be solved by this. If, in a material sense, there is a reference to social affairs and employment, then I suggest that this debate on integration should take place during the budgetary procedure. However, if I look purely at the rules we have in the field of work and education, it appears that language education is available to everyone and that everyone has the opportunity to work. I understand that this doesn't always happen. Let us be honest: if these people are just here, they often have something quite different to their heads than a job straight away. You must first learn the language and customs of the country in which you are. That's a big deal. As has often been said before, it is very often about people who come alone and are especially busy with the process of after-travel. Mr Wilders said something about that. I would like to make some corrections to that. Now 1,800 people come in in a week, but a third of them are already after-travel. So you can't say that these detours themselves create after-travel. This is about people, not rabbits. The motion-Pechtold c.s. in piece No. 2034 I also advise against. Firstly, it is very difficult at European level to remove the €6,000 per redistributed asylum seeker, as this would reduce the acceptance of other countries for which this is already difficult. Secondly, if I make an exception for the Netherlands, it is a bit of a pocket. The money we get from Europe for these people is, if it all goes on, money that I would otherwise get from my colleague Ploumen's budget for freshman care. Then a little bit is pushed and in the end that doesn't yield the same thing. If I were to shift it for the whole of Europe, you would be talking about substantial sums. The chances that we will have countries to accept redistribution for the short term are even smaller than we are today. The Van der Staaij/Vordewind motion in part No. 2042 I also advise against. We have now agreed that asylum reception will be charged to the development cooperation budget in the first year. In the letter, the cabinet announced that it will continue to look at how both ambitions, the reception of today and the investment in reception in the region, can continue to be met. The cabinet does not like letting go of this link. My colleague Ploumen does not like that, and of course I certainly do not, because then I have even bigger problems. However, the cabinet as such does not see it as such either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u168	Moreover, the link we have made here only applies to the reception of additional asylum seekers as a result of European agreements. So the question is not to let go of the whole system now, so that nothing can be done. The question is only about the additional obligations that we now have as a result of the European agreements. Don't let that go at the expense of our national development cooperation budget. If I just heard the Secretary of State right, he'd say there's in fact already some funding. He also said this in response to Mr Pechtold's motion. The redistribution is already linked to the budget and therefore does not have to be borne by the first year's reception.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u169	If the compensation provided by European funds were not there, the burden on the development cooperation budget would be even greater. It won't be fully covering. Europe's contribution to the people we may want to take up is not cost-effective, but without this concession, the tax would be even greater due to these costs of the first-year care budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u170	In that case, my motion will stand. If we take on additional obligations for people coming to Europe, I do not think that they should be financially at the expense of our efforts in the countries of origin to improve reception there. That is the political statement I would like to put to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u171	This is indeed a political difference of opinion. Whether it is a redistribution or a direct one, for example, because people report themselves in Ter Apel, or by any means whatsoever, the cost to people who flee from fireplaces and are eligible for shelter, we want to be charged in the first year of the money that would otherwise have been spent on development cooperation in other ways. Now the motion in part No. 2035. It is not the ultimate purpose of the cabinet letter to amend all kinds of treaties. The motion requested could be amended without any treaties, so in that sense this motion would be superfluous. But we have the goal of providing shelter and protection in the region, and if that can be done in a way that falls within the Treaties, that is fine. I found the comments made by Members of Parliament very valuable in the first term. However, as Mr Samsom pointed out, if it is more convenient in the negotiation process to amend a treaty article somewhere in order to achieve the reality of good reception in the region, then we should not say in advance that we should not do so. The letter clearly states what guarantees and demands we maintain. In that sense, I advise against the motion because we do not want to take any further steps. For the motion in part No. 2044 is the same. A requirement for safe reception arrangements in the region before we can refer people back to it, so we can return to a shelter in the region, which is the ultimate objective, is that that country does not send those people back from the shelter in the region to the place where they are at risk. We are already doing this, so in that sense the motion is superfluous. As far as I can tell that it has to go further, so that the possibilities of reaching that final goal should be restricted further, I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. Mr Kuzu's 2041 is actually a very different story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u172	I would like to ask a question on the motion for a resolution on item No. 2044. It is good that we agree on the first part of the operative part, so that right should be retained. In my view, we can also agree on the second, because this right is also retained in the cabinet plans, in case people come from unsafe countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u173	Yes, but there is no material treatment of the application of people coming from regions where safe country agreements do exist. In that case, it is a fairly formal and short process of inadmissibility. I have the impression that this motion wants more than that. Therefore, I advise her, also to avoid future misunderstandings. Now to Mr Kuzu's motion on item No. 2041 on the IND and the Municipal Basic Administration. Recently, the First Chamber asked questions about this, which my colleague Mr Plasterk answered. This problem is known to us. Minister Plasterk is in charge of resolving that problem. The House of Representatives will soon be informed of this. So we're working on this. We are working on it, the Chamber is being informed about it, so this suggestion is unnecessary and I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-10-tweedekamer-7.u174	This brought an end to the government's second term. I think we are voting on the motions tabled today at 5.30 p.m. after the forthcoming VAO.
