ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. Until last Sunday, the gay pride in Istanbul in Turkey actually had quite a beautiful history. I believe it was in 2003 that a gay pride took place for the first time, with a few dozen participants. It was a somewhat timid meeting. More than ten years later, the gay pride had become a manifestation for freedom of sexual preference, involving nearly 100,000 people. During the intervening period, more and more lht'ers in Turkey felt free not to hide their mode anymore. Another great development is that more and more parents of lhbt children are proud of their children and want to give them the freedom not to hide their mode anymore. The day before yesterday, however, we read the sad report of a serious incident in Turkey, in which the annual gay pride was brutally beaten apart and sprayed apart by the riot police. My group is shocked by this. Turkey is a candidate country of the European Union and has signed numerous human rights treaties. There were also Turkish Dutch who participated in these festivities and informed us via social media about the aggression of the riot police. That is why I have a number of questions for the Foreign Minister. What is he aware of the facts that have taken place in Istanbul? To what extent does his information show that there was targeted violence against lht's people and against gay pride participants? Has the Minister asked his Turkish colleague about this, perhaps via the embassy or directly with his own Turkish colleague? Will the EU also ask questions about this to the Turkish authorities? Turkey is an EU candidate country and such action at an IBT meeting is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u2	Madam President. Last Sunday the gay pride took place in Istanbul, as it has been for years. In recent years, there has been a policy of tolerance. No permission was requested and the pride took place without any problems. Thousands of people were festively dressed up before the start of the Pride, until reports of the police performing. The governor had forbidden the Pride at the very last moment, according to him because a Pride was particularly sensitive in the Ramadan. Turkish MEPs, MEPs and the US Consul-General then intervened with the Governor, after which the Pride could start. The Pride initially went quietly. I would of course have asked our Dutch consul-general to join us. The Deputy Consul General was also there, as was a member of the Amsterdam City Council. They've reported to me that the police have intervened with tear gas and water cannons. After that, the Pride was terminated. The violence last Sunday against participants of the gay pride in Istanbul is worrying and disappointing. By the way, homosexuality is not punishable in Turkey. We had hoped that it would be a good and beautiful gay pride. There should be room for peaceful demonstrations that focus on equal rights for lesbians, gays, bisexuals and transgenders. That is all the more true, as Mrs Maij rightly says, for a candidate country of the European Union. The Netherlands will continue to promote equal rights and social acceptance for lhbt'ers. We expect that next prides in Turkey can be organized without any problems. The European Union and the Netherlands will therefore address Turkey on this issue, including the rights of lht'ers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u3	As the Minister points out, police action has been quite aggressive. I understand that in March of this year a law was passed in Turkey which gives the police more room and freedom for such action. I was surprised at another moment too. I was in Diyarbakir as an observer in the Turkish elections. On 5 June an attack took place there at the HDP election meeting. 100 people were injured and 2, later 3 people were killed. And what did the police do? She put the water cannons in there. That was an incomprehensible action, given what was happening there at the time. That action was as incomprehensible as the action of the police at the gay pride. The freedom to demonstrate, to support your party or to show your orientation increased in Turkey at the beginning of this century. But since the last few years, that freedom has been under pressure. The actions of the riot police and the arrest of journalists, for example, are a very poor illustration of this. In line with what the Minister himself said, I ask him: how does he judge the action of the riot police in Turkey in general? Does he recognize the negative trend, the reversal over the past two or three years, as I just outlined it? What can be done to safeguard cherished freedoms, not only for lhbt citizens but also for activists in other areas, such as journalists? Is this also addressed bilaterally or at EU level?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u4	First of all, let me say again that last Sunday's crackdown on gay pride participants in Istanbul is worrying and disappointing in my view. The European Union and the Netherlands have addressed Turkey in terms of human rights, including the rights of IBTs. There are two elements to be mentioned in this trend. It is true that at the beginning of "the Erdogan period," to put it bluntly, the number of democratic freedoms seemed to increase. That effect was also measurable. However, in recent years we have seen a different trend. We have discussed this repeatedly in this Chamber, including the right to free journalism. One will remember the case of a Dutch journalist some months ago. The Dutch Government has reacted very proactively to this. We have also raised this issue in the European Union, and we have even established a relationship with pre-accession support. We will continue to do so. In this case, it is striking that the police took action against a peaceful demonstration, regardless of the exact way in which the process of consent was conducted. Responding to a peaceful demonstration with the use of water cannons is, I think, not the right method for a country that wants to become a member of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u5	Thank you to the Minister for his answers. Finally, I would like to ask him the following. As he himself pointed out, it was a peaceful demonstration. To what extent did there turn out to be targeted violence against lht'ers? It was a peaceful demonstration and I believe that this demonstration in the past also fell into Ramadan, also last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u6	In fact, it is right to say that the violence was directed against the demonstrators. During that demonstration, people who were in solidarity with ltb'ers, such as Dutch representatives, were mainly lesbians, gays, bisexuals and transgenders. In that sense, it was directed against them. Mrs Maij herself has just said that it may also have to do with a more general trend in police action. This would thus show that it was more related to police action than to the target group. However, it is important to stress once again the importance of equal rights for lesbians, gays, bisexuals and transgenders, including in Turkey. It is necessary to say again here this afternoon that their rights must be fully respected.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u7	Can the Minister indicate whether the Dutch post in Istanbul has supported defeated activists? Is it general policy that lhbt activists are supported from the post? Is there any need for tightening up on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u8	In general, the Dutch embassy, in this case the Consulate General, is very proactive with all gay prides, precisely because we see this as a priority and a cornerstone of human rights policy. For this reason, the Consul General and the Deputy Consul General were also present at the demonstration. Of course, they have also protested and spoken to these people. I do not have any further information on whether or not reception was needed. I don't think that was the issue. But it is quite clear that the political signal has been given clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u9	The whole ban on this peaceful procession, which has never caused any problems in the past, is, of course, already reprehensible. That prohibition must be rejected. The unjustified and violent police action against these peaceful people must be condemned in the strongest terms and openly by the Dutch Government. The animal must be mentioned by the name: here Erdogan has shown his ugly face and here Islam has shown its ugly face again. Is the Minister going to denounce this in this way, or does he think that this again has nothing to do with Islam?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u10	I am not going to raise this in the way that Mr De Roon is proposing. I turned that down, and I'm doing it now. I do not directly relate this to religion, as Mr De Roon does. I certainly don't want to say that Islam was against this demonstration. A lot of people who walked in the demonstration are Muslims. In this sense, Mr De Roon's comment is not at all relevant either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u11	Would you like a second question for the PVV Group, Mr De Roon?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u12	Yes, because I don't understand the Minister's answer. The whole ban on this demonstration was inspired by Islam. This demonstration was not allowed to continue, because it fell into the Ramadan, and then the feelings of the Muslims might get hurt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u13	I think that was indeed the consideration of the board in Istanbul. That is what I think mine and yours are about, namely that this should not be a reason to give form to discrimination against immigrants in Turkey. In that sense, therefore, I agree with you, but I would not want to put a whole religion in the corner again, as you would like to do, while many of the people who adhere to that religion themselves participated massively in that demonstration. So I'm just not going along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u14	This incident but also other examples show once again how far away Turkey is from EU membership. In the meantime, billions of pre-accessional funds are going to go there. Does the Minister not agree with the VVD that the events of this weekend, but also the other examples mentioned, are reason to initiate the possibilities of discounting if one does not behave properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u15	That is possible, but I have already told the Chamber that the Dutch Government has taken initiatives to this end, but no other Member State has supported us in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u16	Mr Van 't Wout, your group's second question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u17	I'll take a look at the other members.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u18	You've been given permission? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u19	I know the Minister has tried that before. In the meantime, it is developing further, and not in a positive direction. So is it not time to tie the game back to the car and see if there are any other Member States that are prepared to support the Netherlands in this matter after this weekend's footage and other incidents?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u20	I am not necessarily against it, but I do think that we should now operate as effectively as possible on the matter as far as the people we want to support are concerned. I have just given a number of examples of how we rejected this. We are now also in the process of supporting projects directly in the field of lhbt in Istanbul. We also supported the Amsterdam council member. He was helped by the consulate when he got caught up in the chaos that night. The long-term effects are of course also important and, of course, I am prepared to take your suggestion with me. However, I would like to point out that Turkey is now in a period of government formation and I would first like to see what the policy of the new government will be. However, we share the horror and criticism of this action.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u21	I thank the Minister for his answers and his coming to the Chamber.
