ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Six women recently cracked a house in Amsterdam. They are outlawed and left to their fate. They were lured to Morocco by their husbands and dumped there. After returning under their own power, they could no longer go anywhere because of their so-called dependent residence permit. This is the problem of abandonment, marriage coercion and marital imprisonment. Every year, hundreds of girls and women are left behind by their partner or family. They are also called "hidden women." Take Lamia, who was written by her husband at the bourgeois stand and then dumped in Morocco. Back in the Netherlands she received no help and could only go to the Salvation Army. In Amsterdam alone there are 40 women like Lamia. They fall between shore and ship. Firstly, does the Minister agree with me that these women have a human right to care? Secondly, the question is how to prevent these kinds of nasty situations. This is a question I would like to put to the Minister, who is responsible for prevention. At the beginning of January he came up with the Self-Decision Action Plan. That is why it is also about supporting municipalities and professionals. I have a number of supplementary questions on this. Does the Minister, who is responsible for combating wedlock and abandonment, find it acceptable that there is sometimes no adequate care for abandoned women? Is the Minister prepared to have a short-term discussion with local authorities and aid workers in the context of his own action plan, in order to strengthen the policy and signal of marriage restraint and abandonment? Is he willing to inform the Chamber about this? Finally, is the Minister prepared to work with his colleague in Health to ensure that there is a national shelter for women such as Lamia?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for this question following a painful broadcast by EenVandaag of 29 January. This kind of situation of abandonment or dumping is almost always linked to violence of honour and marriage, as Mr Van Dijk pointed out. Marriage coercion and honor violence do not fit in with Dutch society. They are at odds with that in every respect. They also oppose the sense of justice and human rights. That is why, in addition to a whole package of criminal law measures, we in the Netherlands also have a preventive policy laid down in the Self-Decision Action Plan. This is intended to prevent so many girls, women, men and boys from becoming victims in the future. I therefore believe that people have the right to protection against wedding coercion and honour violence. They should not be dumped. At the moment I do not know enough about the specific case in Amsterdam, but I understand the questions very well. Written questions have also been asked by the Labour Party on this issue. I am going to contact the municipality of Amsterdam and will ask about the precise nature and background of these cases, in order to find out if they have actually landed between shore and ship. Indeed, there is provision for such women. There are almost always criminal offences, either by force or by force of marriage or by threat. Because there is an acute threat, care can be provided. If not, the municipality also has a task for people who are still legally resident in the Netherlands. If we are talking about the intermediate category, I would like to see whether it is up to us to do more about it. I will inform the House of this in response to Mrs Yücel's questions on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-4.u3	That's really good. Thank you for that commitment; we await it. This is one case, but there will be more women in a similar situation. That is why I asked: how will the Minister's plan of action strengthen the policy on left behind women? And is he willing to vouch for or defend a nationwide shelter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-4.u4	Two things are important for that; my answer was perhaps too short for that. Firstly, this is expertise, as Mr Van Dijk mentioned. Recognizing abandonment and marriage coercion and signaling it on time when there are signs of it are incredibly important. That is what we are working on with the municipalities and with everyone who can get in touch with people who are involved. Secondly, if women or others have been left behind, it is very important that they report to one of the official bodies. I have not been able to verify whether this has happened in this case. When that happens, it is very often possible to adjust a sleeve. Then the GGD or any other agency can do something. There is in itself a covering system for receiving women through VWS. The question here is rather whether they were entitled to do so and if there had been a possibility in this situation to do something for these women, but to answer them I need to know more about the case. But again, I think the question is right. I will go after it in contact with the municipality of Amsterdam and will return to it in response to the written questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you. It is a good thing that the Minister is taking action on the basis of this case. Perhaps in abundance, I say that it should not be the case that we take action on the basis of television broadcasts, but that this minister, who is responsible for prevention, should always stand before these women. Perhaps he would like to emphasise that again. Finally, I have the question of what we are actually doing with these men dumping their wives abroad and perhaps getting away without any punishment. Does the Minister think it's right if we go after these men?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. Through you, I would like to thank Mr Van Dijk for calling the first part of his question 'in abundance'. The Chamber is well aware that this is a very serious problem which I am working hard on. It is not for nothing that this action plan has come about. In addition to criminal law and everything that is already there, we need to do more to make people resistant to it and sometimes to change the culture in which group pressure can lead to people not being able to exercise their right to self-determination. Because that's what it's about: choosing your own partner, setting up your own life. That's an inalienable right, but it's under duress in marriage coercion, honor violence and abandonment. I would certainly like to emphasise the point that Mr Van Dijk is asking for. We do that every day, but when new cases emerge in the media, I think it is our job to go after them and see if policy can do even better. On the second question, the answer is yes. There are very often criminal offences, even if they have been committed abroad. In this case, I do not know whether this is the case or whether it is possible to prosecute, but in general it certainly is. The criminal trail must also be fully followed, because men who do these things must be prosecuted as soon as there is a criminal offence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-4.u7	I thank the Minister for his answers. We will keep him to the commitments he has just made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-4.u8	I also heard the stories; I mean last Friday. They're poignant stories. Marriage is a form of legal protection, including for vulnerable parties. We see that this has failed and that this does not work in these cases. How is that possible? Is it not necessary to enter into consultations with Morocco, too, where women are left who do not return to see how legal protection can be guaranteed there? After all, marriage must be a safe place. Where that is broken up and where that is ended, there must be legal protection for vulnerable parties such as these women.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-4.u9	There is. We have often spoken in this Chamber about the reception of girls and women and boys and men who report abroad, for example in Morocco, through consulates or embassies. I'm always with the Chamber looking for the optimum in there. Mr Koenders is responsible for this, but the staff at the consulates and embassies are certainly aware that we have a duty to stand up for such victims. Again, I do not know what exactly happened in this case. First, I want to get the facts straight and then report them to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-4.u10	As the Minister pointed out, the Labour Party has asked questions about this issue, not because of the television broadcast, but because it came to us. I am glad to hear that the Minister will come back to that in detail after he has got a good idea of the situation. My question for now is, also in the run-up to the debate on the approach to self-determination, with which the cabinet is very good and ambitious, whether the establishment of women's rights ambassadors/human rights ambassadors can also play a good role in preventive terms. Is the Minister prepared to take that point ahead of the debate on self-determination?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-4.u11	It's a whole spectrum. You have violence against, often vulnerable, women. Criminal law must take action against this. You have forms of abandonment. Then help is provided through shelter, either abroad or in the Netherlands. However, you also have the task of trying to prevent so many people from getting hurt. We have seen that it is more than an incident in the Netherlands. It's about dozens, even hundreds of women and men. In order to do something about it effectively, it is also necessary to increase awareness of the rights that one has, the awareness of the right to self-determination, and to be aware that regardless of whether one belongs to a group or to a community, everyone in the Netherlands has and may exercise those rights, such as the right to choose one's own partner and the right to set up one's own life. At local level, women's rights ambassadors, as well as education and formal public authorities can play a role in this. I think it would be a good idea, when we discuss this action plan, to include all the variants. We are concerned that everyone who lives in this country should grow up and live in full use of the right to self-determination.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you for your comprehensive answer and for coming to the Chamber.
