ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. 400 tailor-made medicines, mainly for the elderly and children, are suddenly no longer reimbursed by the health insurance companies, so we could read in the newspaper on Saturday. There has been no consultation with doctors, pharmacists or patients. The health insurance companies have decided this unilaterally. And why? Why does a little kid with swallowing problems suddenly have to take pills when he's had a drink until recently? Why does a cancer patient suddenly have to inject his sedative rectally when he can hardly move from pain? Is this custom-made care? Is this putting the patient at the center? Does the Minister support this decision of the health insurance companies? Or is she going to ask them to reverse this decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. In our system, politics determines the basic package, and then the health insurance companies have to implement it in a way that is good quality, but in the most efficient way. It's about the appropriate treatment. The size of the medicines produced by the pharmacy itself is really increasing. A while ago, we assumed a few dozen preparations. That has now become many thousands of preparations. Questions that insurers have raised as a result are: is there a similar registered product? So is this preparation necessary? Or are they products you can buy at the drugstore, for example against warts or hemorrhoids? They are not covered by basic insurance. Is there a self-care product possible, or is there not and should the pharmacy be preparing? Has anything been scientifically proven to work? On the basis of a list of all these kinds of questions, insurers have been going through many thousands of preparations at the end of the last year. They offered this to the pharmacists in mid-January, according to the insurers. The pharmacists say: no, we got it February 25th. I don't know what the timing was and who's right about it. What I do know is that insurers have to do this. And We gave them that task and that command. They must do so carefully and in good time. I think that if you communicate it on 25 February, you will give patients very little opportunity to adapt to it, and so it is too short a day. It must be clear that we have found politically that medicines that are not in the package should not be reimbursed, not even if they are prepared. It is also not good if medicines that are not in the package are reimbursed via the detour of the preparations. It has been agreed that insurers will continue to check whether care is covered by the basic package, including with regard to the preparations. It has also been agreed that they will do so in cooperation with the KNMP and communicate it in good time, so that the field can prepare properly and so that patients are informed in good time and well. Of course, it will always be possible to ask insurers for authorisations for certain resources in individual situations. If you have swallowing problems and you need drops instead of a pill, you can ask your insurer for an authorization, so that you get the more expensive drops.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u3	Healthcare insurers make billions of euros and have billions of euros on the shelf. And yet the profits over the backs of the patients are increased again. It's not up to the health insurance company to determine if anything's useful, is it? It is up to the doctor, the pharmacist, to deliver customised solutions in cases where standard treatment does not provide a solution. Does the Minister agree or does he not agree that special preparations for children, the elderly or vulnerable patients will no longer be reimbursed? Did she not call herself: cheap where it can be done and expensive where it should be? Or does that turn out to be cheap where it can be done and otherwise you have to pay for it yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u4	As I said, politics determines what is in the package. The items contained in them must be bought in as efficiently as possible by insurers and of good quality, but there may be reasons why they are insufficient for an individual situation. For that there is the system of permissions. You can go to the insurance company and say, "I've got a kid who needs drops, 'cause it can't take that pill." Or a doctor could say, "I have a patient who can't tolerate suppository." That's how we set up the system. We now have to note that, by means of the preparations, with which individual tailor-made products were delivered, a separate drug production is actually becoming more and more massive. However, that route is never meant for that purpose. Healthcare insurers also have the task of paying attention to this. They must ensure that care remains tailor-made, but also that care remains affordable for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u5	I conclude that the Minister is therefore against customization for vulnerable patients. It is against customization for patients who have difficulty with standard administration. So the minister is okay with the health insurance company sitting on the doctor's seat, but it's the doctor who judges what's best for a patient and not the health insurance company? Does the doctor's judgment for this minister no longer have any value? Is the Minister prepared to ask the health insurers at least if they wish to consult with the healthcare providers and patients? The PVV finds it incomprehensible that people are denied necessary care and that the drink for the child with swallowing problems is only accessible to those who can afford it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u6	I feel like it doesn't really matter what I'm saying. After all, I have said that tailor-made work is still possible. It is still possible not to go out with a pill if you need drops or to get a drink instead of a suppository if in an individual case this is customized care for the patient. It's still possible. However, it is about the bulk and the route that has arisen. You can buy something against warts yourself, for example at the drugstore, but also a diversion has been created through the preparations. The supply along that route has gone from dozens of products to thousands. So you can see that's gonna be a lot more massive. That route needs to be cut off. At the same time, customisation in the form of preparations should remain possible. However, I do believe that there should be proper consultation between pharmacists and health insurance companies, which has not been sufficiently done so far. That is what I have addressed parties to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u7	I am pleased that the Minister is now calling for consultation. Is the Minister prepared to at least suspend this decision until such consultations have taken place and parties are out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u8	I've already done that. I have addressed parties in the course of events. The customization for patients who are dependent on the preparations was also discussed. It's for those patients. If you can't take a pill because you have swallowing problems, you should be able to get drops. That's what it's for. However, the following has happened. Insurers see that not tens but thousands of products are supplied through the preparations. It's not meant for that very large bulk. It's a detour chosen at everyone's expense. That's not what it's for. That road must therefore be cut off. That's exactly what I'm trying to do: customization where it's supposed to be. A self-care product that is not included in the basic package should not be provided via the preparations at the cost of the basic package.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u9	In January and February, people were simply compensated for this care. When they looked at their policy for the new year, they looked into whether they could still get these medicines reimbursed by their health insurance company. Now the health insurance company changes the rules during the ride. They are suddenly not getting those funds reimbursed anymore. Can you just do that? In this respect, it is true that the question raised by the Minister does not answer the question as to whether that measure has been frozen until proper consultations have taken place between the parties. Now, during the journey in people who have been reimbursed in January and February, care is stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u10	Patients who depend on it because they cannot use the alternative can obtain an authorisation from their insurer. For the rest of the patients, it means, for example, that they have been compensated for care where other patients who have to pay themselves at the drugstore. We have determined here in this house that this is not part of the basic package. So that these people have to pay for their own care now, like all the other people who get the resources at the drugstore, I don't think it's wrong. That is something we have also established here. However, those who depend on this care can indeed apply to their insurer for an authorisation for a preparation. That's how the system's supposed to work. A preparation is something special.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u11	It is really to be ashamed of you to read that people who need bladder medicines now have to pay €560 a month themselves or that people who are dying cannot go home because health insurance companies do not want to pay and so these people have to die in the hospital? Can we not simply observe here that patients have been robbed by this measure on the one hand and, on the other hand, they may have gone too fast on the other? Is the Minister still prepared to suspend this measure until there has been proper consultation on which medicines can or cannot be prepared by pharmacists? We have still not received an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u12	I have indicated that I believe it is short notice. I don't know who that is. The insurers say that the pharmacists knew as early as January when the pharmacists say that this is not true. At least it's short notice for the patient. What matters to me is that people who need it, people you mention as examples, can continue to have this concern. They can continue to receive them by applying for authorisation from their health insurance provider. That authorisation will be granted by that health insurance provider if it turns out that someone needs it to go home, for example, or because he cannot handle the other means. We have determined that route with each other and so that route can also be continued.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u13	Once again, the Minister does not answer the question of whether this measure should be suspended. Apart from the panic of patients, apart from the uncertainty as to what is being paid and what is not being paid, we simply know that there has been no proper consultation. The Minister admits that, too. I think the Minister should suspend this measure. Shouldn't there just be an independent advice from the Zorginstituut Nederland, which makes it no longer a financial matter of health insurers, but a substantive test of an independent party? That last one would be much better. Then the Minister would not have to defend the policy of health insurers here either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u14	I'm not. Mrs Leijten cites the example of bladder fluids. A decision was taken on the basis of an explanation by the Zorginstituut Nederland. That wasn't thought up by health insurance companies, it didn't happen in the afternoon. First, the Zorginstituut Nederland gave an explanation and then the insurers acted on the basis of that explanation. The Zorginstituut Nederland has been appointed for the provision of package advice. It has indicated that these funds should not be part of the package. So it's not like this happened one afternoon. It's just that I don't think the communication's good enough. I do not think we should do that. I think we should do better next time. For anyone who says it is a specific situation for him, it is arranged that he can explain it through his insurer and that he can get customized work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u15	Mrs. Voortman, welcome back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This decision will be taken on 25 February. On 1 March, the funds will be withdrawn from the package. That time is too short. The Minister has said that a few times. It's too short for the patients. Does the Minister guarantee that those people who really need it will all still get the medicine they need?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u17	I believe that the insurers, because the communication initially did not deserve the top prize or the top prize. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for his excellent report. If an insured person calls you, you should be able to give a quick answer as to whether the request is subject to individual customization.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u18	The minister says the health insurance companies didn't communicate well. That's what she talked to them about. Mrs Leijten has already said something about this, but should those health insurance companies decide which medicines are no longer eligible for reimbursement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u19	A lot of medicines that are already not eligible have increasingly crept into the package by the way of the preparations. First, we're talking dozens, cut to size. Now there are thousands and you see that a shortcut has arisen, in which medicines are prepared in bulk that are not at all covered by the package. That's the point, of course. It's not like insurers came up with it all on their own. The Zorginstituut Nederland has determined that those bladder fluids should not be part of the package. Insurers reimburse the medicine, then hear from the healthcare institution that it does not belong in the package and therefore have to take it out. That's always a difficult time. You need to get something out of it that's been wrongly compensated before. It is the responsibility of health insurers to set such a moment, but it has now happened far too short a day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u20	The fact that communication does not deserve a price of beauty is something we can determine with each other, but we are now at an impasse. Healthcare insurers don't want to reimburse a drug, while pharmacists say it's necessary. It has already been asked by two predecessors who should judge that. Does the Minister intend to submit this list of 400 medicines in question to the healthcare institute in order to assess which medicines should be reimbursed and which should not be reimbursed? That way we can get out of this impasse.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u21	Health insurers have followed a standard basic package criterion. The first criterion is: is it a self-care tool? A lot of resources are self-care resources. They don't belong in the package. The second criterion is: what has been established by the healthcare institute in the meantime as to what is and is not covered by it? It turned out to be a lot of resources that didn't belong in it. That's how the list is finished. Of course, I've also asked why SIN doesn't do this. Zorginstituut Nederland has informed me that it cannot do that at all. If it had to do that for all those loose products, it would have to bring in a lot of people. We determine with each other: bladder fluids whether or not, self-care agent X or Y whether or not. Then an insurer can say: I have a patient here who really cannot be asked to take pills, because he needs drops. In such a case, there is an authorisation option. You should; that's tailor-made care. However, it is not a procedure. It is now suggested that the insurers have come up with this on their own, but they do so on the basis of criteria either established by politics or by Zorginstituut Nederland. Eventually there is a category that you say: the bulk doesn't have to, because it can take a pill, but people with swallowing problems can't do that and for them this preparation is meant for. I am sorry that this did not become known until the end of February. I would have preferred it to have been known at the beginning of January, because then everyone would have been much better prepared. I really think that's a mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u22	A second question for Mr Van Dijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u23	It is, of course, important for people to know when this deadlock will come to an end. Can the Minister state when it will be clear to patients, pharmacists and insurers whether or not funds will be reimbursed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u24	This can be done on the basis of the list of criteria applied by health insurers. That list is a mix of what has been decided in the Chamber, for example antacids in it or not. There are all kinds of criteria. They passed those criteria. However, the individual case cannot be defined in criteria. It's up to patients to say, "I'm one of those people who can't take pills but needs drops." They should call their insurance company.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u25	It is, of course, an extremely complex issue. If people have been given certain resources for a long time, but they do not get them at once, that always raises questions. I understand, however, that insurers do not compensate for what is not eligible for compensation. That is what we are talking about, and on that basis they have laid down the criteria. I would like to mention one more criterion mentioned by the insurers. That is also an understandable criterion. For some means there is insufficient scientific evidence of effect. We run into them all the time. It is right that if there is no evidence, there will be no compensation. In the case of medicines that are sometimes used and prescribed by certain patient groups for years, very hard evidence is not ultimately provided. Then it's up to the scientific association to do that. In such cases, can the Minister make an effort to ensure that the scientific association, together with the patients' association, sit down again to see if that evidence can be produced quickly and that it can be clarified?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u26	That is the category that Zorginstituut Nederland has to determine whether it is covered by the package or not. These are precisely the means that insurers should not judge. As with the bladder fluid, this must be returned to Zorginstituut Nederland. That's where all the experts and medical professionals are. They determine with us what the implementation of the package will be. They also advise me and they let me know: 'this actually belongs in the package' or 'it's now in the package but we can't actually scientifically prove that it works'. Then it ends up back here, in this house. Politics then ultimately determines whether it is part of the package.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u27	Thank you for your answers and thanks for coming to the Chamber.
