ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice. I call Mr Van Nispen of the Socialist Group. His speaking time shall be fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mistakes are human, but with judges, mistakes have very serious consequences. In order to correct errors, we have the usual remedies, such as appeal and cassation and possible revision, although the latter is extremely complex and the thresholds are too high according to the SP. But all that alone is not enough. We must also dare to ask ourselves what we do with judges who make real mistakes, who behave unauthorizedly or who simply don't work. What's that? Who's controlling the judge? The need to increase the possibility of imposing sanctions on the courts has been clearly and generally accepted for a long time. In 2007, the Supreme Court pointed to the lack of a differentiated system of sanctions. In 2009, the Stevens Working Group, set up by the Judicial Council, also concluded this. The current instruments are too limited to address misbehaviour of life-appointed judicial officials with disciplinary measures. Today's law really doesn't offer enough opportunities. If there is any illegal behaviour with a judge, then you can dismiss the judge.It must be very serious; you don't just do that or give a warning, but that is very light again. The fact that there's nothing between firing or warning is a gap. It is therefore a good thing that the written reprimand is introduced by the Supreme Court. The disciplinary suspension is possible, from now on a judge may be removed from office as a matter of urgency and the Supreme Court may transfer a judge to another court. The latter two are not disciplinary measures, but order measures. Those possibilities are extended in order to impose an appropriate disciplinary measure on a judge in the event of unlawful conduct. The SP welcomes this, because trust in justice is crucial. In order to maintain that confidence, it is necessary to be able to take appropriate and appropriate action against judges who have committed misconduct in damaging the reputation of the case-law. For example, the suspension measure is a necessary supplement. A suspension may be highly justified in the case of behaviour which is too light for dismissal and too heavy for a warning. That is not to say that all this is now very common and that these measures are so often necessary. For example, in 2013 only one disciplinary measure was imposed, a written warning, and in 2012 none at all. The point is that the law allows for the right and appropriate sanctions. That is what is happening with this bill, in the opinion of the SP Group. I have a specific question to the Minister about the proposed Article 46ca, which proposes that the Supreme Court may provide that the judge who is suspended shall not receive any salary during the duration of the suspension: total or partial retention of the salary. The SP finds that right, because if you don't work, you basically don't get a salary. But it's a determination. What kind of situations do I have to think of where it is not justified to withhold the salary in the event of a suspension? When will it be and when won't it be? I would like some explanation from the Minister. I have a single question about the dismissal of a judge. I am referring to the substantive criterion. When is there any dysfunction? Are there sufficient opportunities for the Supreme Court to dismiss a non-functioning judge? The disciplinary measure of dismissal laid down in Article 46c (2) may be imposed if, by act or failure to act, the court seriously harms the proper conduct of the case-law or the confidence to be placed in it. Then there's really a lot going on. Furthermore, a judge may be dismissed if he is physically or mentally unable to do his job or if he has been convicted of a crime. In other words, if a judge is sick, mad or criminal. Then there is a substantive ground for dismissal, namely in the event of incapacity for employment, as stated in Article 46l (1) (a), such as the lack of the necessary legal knowledge and skills. But how good and how strict is this judged? There are, of course, working conversations. In the written preparation, the SP has explicitly asked to what extent quality testing is now being carried out and to what extent it is being discussed and how a lack of quality can lead to dismissal. I am not entirely reassured by the answer. I would like to ask you about that now. The bottom line is that underperformance could lead to dismissal only after repeated discussion and warnings. According to the Minister's list, these are: below-average performance in terms of work rate, insufficiently open to peer consultation, lack of decision-making skills, unfortunate presentation, failure to comply with working arrangements and the disclosure of private conduct which undermines the dignity of the office or the authority of the case-law. All of this "in conjunction with each other" may be a sufficient reason for dismissal for incapacity. "In relation to each other," does the Minister mean that only when all these factors are mentioned in this list of qualitative dysfunction can there be dismissal? I would like to have a clear explanation on this point. The SP has asked, or actually proposed, for internal review committees to be set up in courts that periodically and systematically assess judgements on quality. That's not supposed to be non-binding. The aim should be to correct the weaknesses of judges and to take measures if judges do not function properly. We have not received an answer to this question. We now know, thanks to the visitation committee-Cohen, how things stand. However, I would like to ask the Minister now, in this debate, whether there are no good reasons for extending the internal quality assessment and assessment. As I understand it, internal review now only takes place on appeal. Shouldn't this be applied more widely? If it is not possible tonight, I would appreciate it if the Minister could come back to this later in a letter, so that we can, for example, include it in the general discussion on the case law that we will have. However, if it is possible tonight, it is also good. I come to the subject of integrity. The core values of the judiciary are independence, impartiality, professionalism and integrity. The SP thinks we should be very careful about this. Where necessary, we need to strengthen it. This is also the view of the Court of Justice itself. In response to the investigation Systemic safeguards for the core values of the case law, the council states that the Dutch system knows vulnerabilities and that the Netherlands can make a little more effort to go beyond the internationally established minimum level. The SP very much agrees with that. I have asked questions about this before, but today I urge the Minister to take further action or at least to initiate it on three points. The first is that of the incompatible functions, for example those of the right-wing alternates. They make the system vulnerable by having a different main function, with different standards than in the caselaw. Possibilities to participate in integrity training and debates or to discuss dilemmas with colleagues are less because they are less often present in the workplace. How does the Minister see this? And does the Minister consider certain functions compatible with the function of Judge-Alternate? Should an attorney, for example, also be a judge-alternate? And what about an official, as part of the executive, or a politician, as co-legislator? I do not think so, but I would like to hear the Minister on this in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u3	Before we listen to the Minister, there is first an interruption by Mr Van der Steur.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u4	I fully agree with Mr Van Nispen that it is good to ask these questions periodically. It's always good to think about it. For example, in 2006, in the previous examination of this bill, the VVD and the PvdA tabled an amendment on judges' alternates. It was also on the agenda back then. So I think this is good in itself. But doesn't Mr Van Nispen agree with me that lawyers, whom he explicitly mentioned, can learn a great deal from acting as a judge substitute, with all the guarantees that we have developed over the years, and that it might even be very good if some judges looked at the other side of the law for a while? I would also like to see Mr Van Nispen's motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u5	I am not going to table that motion, but Mr Van der Steur is free to do so himself. Then I'll look into it. Mr Van der Steur is right to say that it is good to ask a question on a regular basis. However, I raised this question and made a point of view: it is not desirable for a lawyer to be a substitute for a judge at the same time. It is true that Mr Van der Steur has a point when he says that you can learn from each other, but that is not the purpose of our case law. It's not for you as a lawyer to learn what it's like to be on the other side. They really play a different role in the rule of law. So I don't think it's a good idea to be a lawyer and a deputy judge at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u6	I understand that Mr Van Nispen says that, but I do not agree with him. I am a little ahead of the Minister: I think that the replacement of the judge is essential. For example, in the Business Chamber of the Amsterdam Court there are accountants and people from the business community. They are not judges, but they are essential to the quality of justice in this area. Exactly the same applies to judges who are, for example, lawyers, because they can look forward to the work of judges from the practical point of view and from their experience with a different, fresh perspective. The VVD Group therefore certainly does not share the opinion of the SP Group on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u7	It is a pity that Mr Van der Steur does not share that view, because it is a good position, even if it was only because I also said that if you do not work full-time within justice, you also have fewer opportunities to participate in those important matters. I call it an exchange of views on securing integrity and training. Those possibilities don't have people who are rarely judges. Mr Van der Steur mentions a number of groups as auditors and people in business. I can add the professors myself. Yes, of which I can imagine that they do, because of certain expertise that is otherwise not available, limited or difficult to obtain from the judiciary. However, I have explicitly mentioned a number of categories, namely politicians, civil servants and lawyers, which I really believe have a different role to play in our rule of law. It would be a good thing, in the long term, to say that we will not do so tomorrow: those people who have a different role in the rule of law should not be judges at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u8	The idea that there should be a critical review of whether there is a conflict of interest, I can follow. However, there is already a system of absolute incompatibility, where as a politician you cannot be a judge, and relative incompatibility, where as a lawyer in your own district you cannot be a judge-alternate. You have to do that somewhere else to avoid conflict of interest. Isn't it more convenient to keep that system against the light and see if that still works? And if that is indeed more convenient, are there any examples that Mr Van Nispen says the system does not meet? Has he seen somewhere that the system as it now operates does not sufficiently separate the interests?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u9	That is a fair question from Mr Recourt. Are there any examples of cases where it went wrong and where it should have been different? I do not have any examples in which things have gone wrong, but I am making this proposal today, because I do not think we should wait until there is trouble. We need to get ahead of that. Mr Recourt says that the law lays down exactly what is and what is not allowed. That is not exactly the case. That was dissected in the report I mentioned about the core values in the judiciary. On the contrary, there are vulnerabilities, which the researchers unfailingly expose. In other countries, these rules are much stricter. And not just that. We must, of course, look at how they have dealt with it in other countries. There it is much tighter regulated than in the Netherlands. In my view, contrary to what Mr Recourt said, it is not even excluded in the Netherlands that someone is a politician and a judge at the same time. I'm sure that's in standards and codes of conduct, but not in the law. In other countries, it is. In addition, organisations such as Transparency International and GRECO, have encouraged the Netherlands to take further steps to better ensure this, including in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u10	Mr Van Nispen continued his speech. No, I see that Mr Oskam has changed his mind and still wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u11	Mr Van Nispen may want to change the law, but what is wrong with these codes of conduct? There are two examples here, Mr Recourt and I. We're both still judges with a zero-hour contract. We can't judge as long as we're in the Chamber. That does not apply to First Chamber members; they are allowed to. So there are clear agreements on this and they are respected by all the courts. Does Mr Van Nispen know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u12	Mr Van Nispen, if you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u13	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u14	That is a short answer and I see that there is no follow-up question. I would ask you, however, to continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u15	It is so fair to add a brief addition to that. Of course, there are codes of conduct, directives and agreements. I do not know any examples in which things are dramatically wrong; I am very honest about that. I think Mr Oskam is a valuable addition to the Chamber and I do not see at the moment what is wrong with that zero-hour contract. It's good to see if we can't better lay it down in laws and regulations. I therefore call on the Minister to take a look at this, also encouraged by the researchers, the practice in other countries and the international organisations I have just mentioned. My second point concerns the financial interests and functions of partners. At this moment, fortunately, secondary functions must be registered. This does not apply to the financial interests of judges, nor to the side functions of partners. There are critical comments on this. The report also discusses this in detail. I also see that such steps would go a long way and could raise questions about the privacy of the judge and his or her partner, but I would be pleased if the Minister could go into this more comprehensively today, or in the long term in a letter. This too, of course, affects the issue of conflict of interest and the appearance of partiality; the appearance of it. If a judge has shares in company X, it is not desirable that he conducts a procedure in which company X is party. In other countries such registration seems to already take place. That is why I ask the Minister to take a good look at this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u16	Here too, it is always good to ask questions. However, I believe that the SP Group must have concrete indications that this is a problem. Just asking the question and suggesting that partners of judges should make their interests and jobs public is a fairly serious breach of the privacy of judges and their partners. There is also a huge discussion about the definition of what is a partner, what interests are and what you want to know and what is not. Is there a specific problem that Mr Van Nispen says: that is serious, that we must do something about?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u17	If Mr Van der Steur is referring to a particular scandal or something like that, I cannot give him an example, but there is a question here. There are complaints that are well founded. So you can say that it can be done on the basis of current legislation and regulations, but this proposal does not fall out of the blue. It comes from a study by professors and professors commissioned by the Council for Justice itself. They reveal that there are vulnerabilities in the Dutch system compared to other countries. We have been encouraged by Transparency International and GRECO to be even clearer about how we can prevent the appearance of bias and conflict of interest in the Netherlands. I don't think that's wrong with that. It is indeed a little more than a question. I urge the Minister to do so. Then there is the question of how far you should go, what exactly you should register and to what extent that should be made public; I agree with Mr Van der Steur. Those are complicated questions. However, I do not have a detailed amendment prepared for nothing, because if I had done exactly that, I would have tabled it as a proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u18	I know Mr Van Nispen as someone who is carefully preparing his work and he has done so again in this case. However, the VVD Group goes a long way to suggest in a debate that there is a serious problem and to say, if anyone asks, that the problem is not there, but that we should do it anyway. We're not here to make agreements and rules for problems we don't know. It seems that the SP Group is now proposing rules for a problem that still needs to be created. That's a big deal to me. I do not know whether Mr Van Nispen knows how the system of changing works, but that works perfectly. The judges have a great deal of integrity in that. That also prevents us from having a problem. Can Mr Van Nispen say something about this and express his appreciation for the way in which the judiciary has done so very neatly and for many years?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u19	I can fully appreciate that, because that is indeed working well. But when Mr van der Steur talks about solving problems that are not there and come up with laws and rules, I would like to remind him of his five or six amendments, which could be put to the same question. I am not suggesting that there is a huge problem that needs to be solved acutely, but we need to take the vulnerabilities in the system seriously and see how we can ensure them better than we do at the moment, precisely in order to avoid fuss. The third point I would like to put to the Minister is the allocation of cases. There is room for improvement there too. It is now unclear on the basis of which the administration of the court assigns a particular case to an individual judge. In fact, it should be clear on the basis of which a case is assigned to which court. That too can prevent fuss. The appearance of partiality can thus be avoided. There is also greater transparency in other European countries. Can I also have a response from the Minister? The SP is therefore a matter of avoiding conflicts of interest. Any doubt as to the integrity of judges must be removed as far as possible. Any appearance of bias is undesirable. The confidence in justice is rightly high, but we must keep it that way. This requires that we continue to pay attention to this and not to improve matters further where possible. I hope the Minister agrees with the SP. In this debate on disciplinary measures and the integrity of judges and justice as a whole, it is also appropriate to make a comment on the cuts that the judiciary still faces. These cuts are, in my view, the real threat to the quality of our justice. The judiciary has been shorting millions of euros on the budget for years now. There are red numbers. Well considered, of course, that's just numbers. It is mainly about the content and signals from judges. Things are getting heavier and more complex on average. This means that you have lost more time on average at the same cost, with higher workload and/or lower quality as a result. Whether you're talking to a criminal court, an administrative judge or a canton judge in government cases, they all notice. And that's when the real cuts actually have to come. I have heard from several judges that 2016 will be a disaster year in the financial field. We have discussed this in detail in the course of the budget debate, but the Minister has not been shrinking so far. At least that disappoints my group. Once again, we are discussing a good law today, but more important for the quality of justice is that we do not make the work impossible for judges by making too little money available. In this way, it is possible to deal with cases, but important trainings, intervisions and peer review are put under pressure. Is the Minister prepared to acknowledge and take stock of this by consulting the Judicial Council? Is he also willing to listen to his ear again in the various courts in the country? Can he see for himself how things are going over there? I'd like to get a response and a commitment to this. I think it is appropriate to say something about the amendments that have been tabled. Since they were only submitted yesterday and today, I have not been able to assess all aspects of them. I am trying to do this, and it means that I am not in favour of these amendments. The reason for this is first of all that the proposals that the VVD has sometimes submitted together with the PvdA and sometimes with the CDA affect the authority of the case-law. Secondly, I strongly question the added value of these proposals. For example, why would you want to fire a judge on parole? Why would you want to impose financial sanctions on a judge? Does the quality of his work increase if you don't pay someone? Besides, it doesn't make me as happy when the judge, who I'm supposed to go to, is on parole or doesn't have to do his job without a salary. So, frankly, I find it strange proposals that add little to the arsenal that we have agreed on, or rather, the arsenal that is in the legislative proposal today. I would also like to say a few words about the amendment to item No. 15 by Mr Van der Steur and Mr Recourt. I cannot escape the impression that the VVD does not like the union of judges being allowed to talk about this law and that it makes it difficult to change or tighten it up. In response to this, at least my impression is that the VVD, together with the PvdA, has even tabled an amendment which severely restricts the power of the trade union. Instead of a right of consent, which is perfectly normal for a union in legal matters, we now have an advisory right. I think you'll make a tiger without the union's teeth. I would very much regret that, because judges have no other means of defending their legal position. I very much hope that the authors of this amendment will consider this further. Moreover, I place my hopes on the Minister. I don't do that much, but I do today. I really hope that the Minister will convince my colleagues to come back to this, so that the judge's union remains a tiger with teeth. Let us not use the Minister's disciplinary measures to force the proposal forward with proposals that no one is looking forward to in practice, which have no added value and, above all, involve risks. I really hope that the Minister will make a clear statement on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u20	Which union, according to Mr Van Nispen, can ignore the wishes of the majority of the Chamber and, based on the law, say, "Office and Minister, you do whatever you want, but we do not do it because it is in the law.' In short, what union is above the legislation in the formal sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u21	I don't think that's the point. In my view, this is Article 51, which refers again to Article 48 of that law. In my view, this is being changed by the proposers in such a way that the judges no longer have the right of assent in legal matters. If I understand correctly, it is also about pay, salary, whether or not working on Sundays and so on. If it is different, I would like Mr Recourt to defend it in a moment. We will also hear the Minister about this. The union can talk about all these things right now. In fact, the union also has the right to consent. If I understand correctly, the PvdA would want to take that away from the union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u22	It is right that the union should stand up for wages, working days and the position of the judicial officials. That's quite right. However, it is not right that this is enshrined in the law, that it is a right of assent. The law states: you may pass the law, but whether the law is implemented depends on the consent of the union. That's a democratic hole. Even the PvdA, I hope that this also applies to the SP, says: participation is good, but a democratic gap seems to us less desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u23	I very much doubt that there is a democratic gap, as Mr Recourt says. Of course we can work on this bill here in the Chamber. I am critical of that, but that is for other reasons than those I specifically mentioned in the amendment to item No. I have mentioned 15 of them. The added value of the amendments to Parts Nos. 9-14 I strongly question. I have other arguments for that. I will come back to that if the President will allow me to do so later. In the amendment to item No. 15 That is a proposal from the PvdA... is really about the legal status of the judge. In my view, this union or those judges have no other way of defending it than through the article that Mr Recourt now wants to restrict strongly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u24	You will continue your speech. You have more than two minutes for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u25	Once again, I hope that the Minister will speak clearly against the various amendments that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u26	That concludes your first term. I give the floor to the representative of the Group of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy, Mr Van der Steur.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u27	Mr. Chairman. It is very important for the VVD Group that a serious rule of law ensures the independence of the judiciary. We have done this, among other things, through a life appointment, a privilege that no other profession in the Netherlands knows, so that the judge is completely free to form a judgment within the framework of the law. The Netherlands should be proud of the judiciary, both the standing and the sitting magistrate. If we, as MPs, look at the confidence that the Dutch people have in us, in politicians, then we must see that the judiciary is putting us at the crown, because according to the Central Statistical Office 70% of the Dutch population trusts the judiciary. As far as the VVD is concerned, that is absolutely right. The 2,182 men and women of the judiciary, I am talking about the sedentary magistrate, do their work in a more honest manner every day. They do this very well and with full conviction. This does not always happen in an environment that is financially well equipped and with ample resources. This situation has naturally arisen because of the financial problems we have found ourselves in in recent years. Since judges are appointed for life, self-regulation within the judiciary is the starting point. It is a starting point that the VVD Group fully supports. We have already said to this minister in 2011: if you have self-regulation and you have to control your own organisation, then it is important to show society that you are doing this. As a result, since then, the judiciary has been very active in indicating what is happening internally in disciplinary matters. This has also been published very transparently in annual reports. Fortunately, as the SP said, there are very few major problems. I shall now turn to the amendments on a statement for part of that phenomenon. There is, however, a problem, which is only partially resolved by the current legislative proposal. We also asked in 2011 to make the complaints submitted by citizens using the justice system transparent and to simplify the possibility of submitting complaints. That's all happened. It is also a good thing that the judiciary is available for this and that it is open to complaints from people using its services. That's very important. On the basis of all this, you come to the conclusion that the judiciary deserves respect and that he also deserves it at the same time. This means that self-regulation must be visible and that abuses, if they occur, must also be addressed effectively and firmly. In this way, you can continue to feed the trust of society in the judiciary. In the context of this trust, society is entitled to the fact that if there is a person within the judiciary with that privilege of appointment for the rest of his or her life, then he or she does not meet the standards or requirements or even there are abuses, he or she can see that action is followed. From the overview provided by the Council for the period between 2001 and 2010, you can see that there are indeed abuses. For example, there are cases of sexual harassment, unprofessional behavior, abuse within and outside working time, poor quality of work, alcohol use leading to public drunkenness and violation of the confidentiality of duties, which I suspect many people can still remember. What you also see is that because of the current system there is often discharge at your own request. This means that there will be a serious discussion with a judge who then chooses to resign at his own request. This was the case, for example, for someone who announced that he wanted to violate the secrecy of his office and someone whose question was whether he was ill or who was leaving work in any other way. The Court of Justice has mentioned the aspect of private conditions, as well as the abuse of alcohol. If you want to ensure trust in the judiciary, you need tools to protect integrity. This requires a wide range of instruments. In the current system, so without this law, you only have the possibility of warning on the one hand and dismissal on the other hand. Many years ago, the Stevens Working Group found that this was far too little, but then there were very few extras, which put you in the position as a judiciary that when you want to do customization, you can't do that, because you still have very little opportunity to take appropriate action against judges who do not or do not comply fully with the agreements. That is exactly the background to my amendments. Some of them I submitted together with the PvdA and the CDA; others the CDA submitted and I supported them. That's the background to that. You have to be able to deliver that customization. You're gonna need tools for that. Those instruments should be in the law, because otherwise you cannot apply them. That is precisely why it is important that these amendments have been tabled. In recent years, I have made frequent use of the opportunity to visit a number of courts. I've attended hearings and talked a lot with judges and judges. I will answer the question that the SP promised to ask in the event of interruption. Those visits very often mentioned that people said: we should actually have more room and opportunities to do customised work in border cases, so that we can do something precisely in those cases where it is not very serious but where appropriate action is needed; for example, we should be able to impose a penalty conditionally or unconditionally, for example by setting out a warning that possibility would disappear according to the current legislative proposal, with over and above the reprimand proposed in this bill. If you have those two possibilities, both the warning and the reprimand, you have much more space and possibilities to deliver customization. That is of great importance in an organisation, especially in an organisation I would like to point out once again that you do not have the ultimate means of power that you have further in every organisation in the Netherlands, namely the dismissal of someone who does not keep to the agreements. Then it is of extra importance that you have various other possibilities to act disciplinaryly, both through an order measure and through a disciplinary measure. This is not only the VVD Group, supported by the PvdA Group and the CDA Group, supported by the VVD Group, but also the European Court of Human Rights. In the Volkov case against Ukraine, it is amazing that it is being discussed again this evening, but it is true that the ECHR indicated that in similar examples there were too few means to take action within the framework of the independence of the judiciary. In the meantime, even a judge has written an article about this, in which he concludes that the Dutch legal system, the system including the legislative proposal that is here today, probably does not comply with the standards imposed by the European Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u28	In fact, almost everything in Mr Van der Steur's speech supports the legislative proposal before us: on the one hand you can give a warning and on the other hand you can fire someone; there is nothing in between; therefore, there is now the possibility of a reprimand and a suspension. Mr Van der Steur says that the Minister's proposal cannot pass the test of criticism of the European Court of Human Rights. I would ask him to give further support to this, because I do not read it anywhere, not even in the Minister's answers. Mr Van der Steur has already asked for it, I think. I would also like to point out something else. Mr Van der Steur began his speech by saying that the confidence in justice is rightly high, that there are few incidents and that things are going very well. He then tabled six amendments. That number of amendments is greater than the number of times that judges have proven to have gone wrong. Can he respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u29	I'd like to respond to that. I shall begin with the European Court of Human Rights. There is a discrepancy between the government's position on that statement and the vision of the VVD Group on that statement. The VVD vision is shared by a judge who has written an extensive article about it. This judge has indicated that, with the current measures, including the proposals made in the new legislative proposal, we still have too little to guarantee that the judiciary is truly of high quality. That's the answer to that question. Mr Van Nispen may disagree with me on that, but that does not mean that it is not true. Mr Van Nispen said that the scope of the legislative proposal has been extended. Well, go see any other organization or any other company in the Netherlands. On top of that, everything proposed in the legislative proposal, including all the amendments, has much more opportunities to make agreements with people about their functioning than with the judiciary. We accept that, too. It is precisely because of the independence of the judiciary that there will still be a huge difference between an ordinary employee and a member of the standing or sitting magistrate. That's right. That also justifies the peculiarity of the appeal. In my group's view, however, it is very strange to assume that you can accept that we do not; we do not think that it is right that only the small additions that have now been made should be made. That's just not enough. You need more tools and more tailor-made to be able to act precisely in these small, different cases. My work visits have shown me that there is a need for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u30	Customization always sounds very sympathetic, but it does not give a pass if its added value has not been demonstrated. I still do not hear why there is a need for the proposals made by Mr Van der Steur with the other colleagues. The measure of suspension seems to me to be a useful addition, in which a person is temporarily unable to exercise his profession. If you have that opportunity, what does it add to saying: we're not gonna suspend someone, we're gonna demote someone? Demolition, then. Or: we're going to impose a financial penalty on someone. Or: we're gonna fire someone on parole. Isn't that actually affecting the authority of the judge, who at that time exercises his profession, but who is affected by that measure? Suspension is a much more logical measure, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u31	It may be a more logical measure. If so, the board of the court or the Supreme Court must also apply that measure. That is precisely the joke, and that is precisely why we are standing here. It may also be that it is not a more logical measure, but that another measure would make much more sense. I mention, for example, the conditional suspension, in the vein of: if you do it one more time, you will be suspended. That can be a very logical measure. In a lot of organizations, that's what happens. That is now being made possible. The big point is this. We create the instruments, but we do not say to the judges: you must do so all day. They should only apply it if necessary. In doing so, it is essential that you can deliver customization. Now all you have is the warning and the resignation from the Supreme Court. Mr Van Nispen will also agree with me that there is a far too big gap. The bill barely fills that hole. In fact, even the warning disappears, in exchange for the reprimand. For what? It is very nice to be able to say something very small: I am warning you now, it must never happen again, otherwise I will take other measures. If it does happen again, you could impose a reprimand or a conditional reprimand. You could also look at other measures that we need to create. You'll have to have the instruments. There is no objection at all to adopting the amendments, for the simple reason that they enable the judiciary to be optimally limited, but many times better than the legislative proposal has now decided to do what is necessary. That trust also gives the VVD Group to the judiciary. That is why, as far as we are concerned, independence and also the appointment for life are not at issue. I will briefly explain the amendments that have been tabled. The first amendment tabled by the VVD and the PvdA Group is the amendment that makes it possible to transfer a judge within a court or court or to another court or court as a disciplinary measure if necessary. The same amendment regulates the possibility of demotion. A judge who has obtained a certain degree or position may then be placed back if that is useful, necessary and desirable. Of course, that goes without saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u32	I will not repeat myself, but I have a slightly more technical question about this amendment on the subject of demotion. The explanatory statement says something like: a judge working in a court of law would "demove" what do you call it? They may at any rate be demoted to a court of law. Of that, the question is whether it is actually demotion. A judge in a court of law doesn't necessarily rank higher than a judge in an ordinary court of law, does it? That's one. The second thing is, what do you do with a judge in a court of law? Where does it go in case of emotion? Will he be a clerk? How's that going?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u33	Among judges you also have degrees: you have judges A and judges B. In that you can already look for emotion. That is the answer to Mr Van Nispen's last point. So that way you can already come to some kind of emotion. Moreover, I fully agree with Mr Van Nispen that you will only want to apply the demo in a few very specific cases. You always end up with the problem that, even if a judge really doesn't work, but doesn't work badly enough to recommend him to resign, you have to be able to do something. Then this is a measure you can apply. The ultimate measure is so complicated, and perhaps it is also right that there is no question of a dismissal, which would be given in normal business. So it's a possible means, and you have to see it as part of a whole palette of possibilities that you can apply in cases where it's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u34	We will not agree on the added value of this, but I would like to understand exactly what this amendment is proposing. I don't think that's clear. There is therefore no difference in rank, even according to Mr Van der Steur, between court and ordinary court. So how can you apply emotion? Then why is it called "going to a lower position" when you go from court to an ordinary court of law? In Mr Van der Steur's proposal, you first become Judge A and then you become Judge B or Judge C. What does this add? And can Mr Van der Steur explain to me in technical terms exactly how that works? I simply did not understand that from his answer to my first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u35	How it works seems very simple to me. The authorities of the court shall enter into the interview with the court concerned. There is no doubt that this is the case because it is a rather serious measure, and all other things have been discussed and done. I'm sure there's already been a warning. There may have been a reprimand once already. Then it is said that we now feel it is necessary to impose the measure that we are looking at a demotion. This may mean a different function within one scale, but it may also be from the court to the court or, if you like, from the court to the court. But one thing is certain: it will at least give you the opportunity to laugh at Mr Oskam, he will be able to explain what he thinks of it and what he means by it to impose a measure that may be necessary in the context of independence and trust in the judiciary. I come to the second amendment, which has also been the subject of a change between Mr Recourt and Mr Van Nispen. That is the amendment that transforms the right of veto of the Dutch Association for Justice, which is incorporated in Article 51 of the Wrra, into an advisory right. This is a very special piece of legislation, because a similar measure in civil service law provides for several trade unions which are part of a similar consultation. In the caselaw, on the other hand, there is only one trade union and so there is only one trade union that ultimately determines whether or not a particular change can and may not be legally proposed by the Minister. The article does not stipulate that Parliament is bound to do so, but in fact it does. The Minister cannot say: what an incredibly good idea. I am sure the Minister will not say that either, even in order to meet Mr Van Nispen. He can't say that either, and that's exactly the point. The Minister cannot even say in this debate that he thinks this amendment is a good idea, because he is legally bound to have consulted with the Dutch Association for Justice before he agrees or says that he is right. Both the Minister and the Parliament, as legislative power, are, in a sense, excluded by this provision in the law. As you know, the VVD Group does not always consider trade unions to be equally representative. The NVvR is also not every prosecutor and not every judge member. I also know that the SP Group has much less difficulty with this than the VVD Group. We have a problem with that. This means that an enormous power has been laid down at the Dutch Association for Justice, which is not necessarily justified or proportionate to the primacy of parliament and the exchange between government and parliament. A nice example of this is the following. When I decided that the VVD Group might want to table a number of amendments to this bill, I found it logical to consult with the same Dutch Association for the Justice of the Sea. However, with the argument of Article 51 in hand, the Dutch Association for Justice refused to hold that conversation with me. I understand that, because I don't have to. After all, it's not in the law. They assumed that the Minister would never embrace or approve such an amendment or leave it to the Court to decide. He would then have to discourage it, because that is the result of the law. That is not acceptable to the VVD Group, and that is precisely why we have tabled this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u36	One is that it does not say in the law that they should talk to Mr Van Nispen, but they did, so I do not think they are so strict about the law. Point two: Mr Van der Steur also says a lot about the representativeness of the NVvR. So what's the figure? How many prosecutors, how many percent of the officers and judges are members, according to Mr Van der Steur?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u37	For the record, that does not matter to us at all, because the amendment is separate from that. Even if every judge was a member of it, and even if every judge who is a member was also in agreement with the NVvR's position, it doesn't matter. Even if you are a member, you do not necessarily have to agree with NVvR positions, as Mr Van Nispen knows as well as I do. In any case, in my political party, it is common ground that not all Members agree with the positions we take. That also makes our party so interesting, the debate we are having. That does not mean, however, that you have to have a right of assent at a legal level, with which you completely exclude Parliament and the Minister. What we are giving in place is an advisory right. Is that a gratuitous thing? No, that's not a gratuitous thing. Is that a trade union ban, as the press release on the NVvR website said today? No, of course that's not a trade union ban! How do they even know that? Interesting that judges can read such an amendment! As far as I am concerned, there is no prohibition of the NVvR. That won't be necessary. The only thing we think is that the position of the NVvR should not be higher than that of the parliament and the government. In the exchange between Parliament and the government, the freedom must exist to do what we consider to be in the interests of Dutch society and the judiciary. I am very glad that the SP Group has spoken to the NVvR. I did make a visit there in the end, but during that visit the NVvR did not want to discuss the substance of these amendments with me, referring back to Rule 51 Wrra. So I have not been able to have the substantive debate, which I regret, because perhaps there would have been more or better suggestions than what we have now been able to write down. Moreover, all these suggestions come from the judiciary. As far as that is concerned, it's probably not gonna be so bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u38	According to my information, the NVvR is highly representative. 70% would be included. That's very few unions. That's where it's gonna be okay. I understand that we differ in certain areas, but is it true that the amendment also removes the right of consent of the trade union of judges and officers when it comes to working or not working on Sundays, 24 hours a day and seven days a week within the framework of ZSM, and about salaries? It's perfectly normal for the union to have the right to consent to that sort of thing. Is it true that this right is removed by this amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u39	I do not agree with Mr Van Nispen's view that it is normal for a trade union to have a right of assent to such points. The VVD considers that an important point. But you will also have to ask the NVvR for advice on these matters. I believe that a legally-based advisory right is appropriate in the circumstances. It goes without saying that you do not ignore this lightly; let me look at the Minister. Even if the minister ignores this lightly, which in theory might still be possible, there is always, in the end, the parliament that guarantees the rule of law and the independence and interests of the judiciary. That guarantee is therefore exactly where it should be, namely in this Chamber, where we take decisions on such matters together. The next amendment tabled by the VVD, supported by Mr Oskam of the CDA, concerns the retention of the written warning. The current bill provides for a reprimand for the written warning we now know. However, the charming thing about this warning is that it is a very light, small, beautiful, fit and balanced instrument. As President of the Court, you can say: "Follow, this was not convenient. I'm not going to complicate it, but I think that we need to record that this is not possible." I can imagine that then, if it happens again, there will be a reprimand. You have to want that opportunity. As the board of a court, a court or even the Supreme Court, you have to want those kinds of instruments. You must have a pyramid of measures that you can apply if you want to guarantee the independence of the judiciary and continue to strengthen confidence in it. Next, the current legislative proposal provides that a statement of conduct is to be sought and issued when the judge appoints. It's necessary, too. It is not arranged that you can ask for an explanation of the behavior after that. That is strange, because in many cases we are talking about now, such as childcare and other areas of activity in which people work with sensitive material and where it is important that people are integrity, it is often required to provide an explanation of behaviour once in a while. That even applies to taxi drivers. Why should this not apply to the most sensitive and honest profession we have in the Netherlands, the judiciary? The government replied that it would be excessive to apply for a statement of behaviour every so many years. We have given in to that argument, but have decided to make it possible at least. You can say as a court board that you think it's important to do that now. You can specifically ask that of one person, but also generic. Personally, I think it would be very sensible for you to do so regularly as a court, because it is not automatically arranged that you are always informed when there is a criminal law problem with a judge. That usually comes out, but it is not regulated in our current system, according to the information I have obtained about this. It would be a very logical addition to having that possibility within the judiciary. You can't actually be against this as a judge, because this, if it's okay, is always a pointless action. Because you're always entitled to a vog, except for the one time that one judge doesn't get her, when no one knew that was the issue. Just for those cases, you want the opportunity, so we'll make it possible with the CDA. The last two amendments seek to impose both conditionally and unconditionally the whole of the resulting pallet or pyramid of measures. For example, you can give a serious warning by imposing a suspension on a conditional basis, imposing a dismissal or taking other measures that you consider necessary on a conditional basis. That's how someone really knows: if I do this again, I have a big problem. That is perfectly logical and something you should want in an organisation like the judiciary. Finally, for example, there may be bad work, work that is under the norm or people who are paid full-time but do not work full-time because of all kinds of circumstances. Then it is good, useful and useful to have the power to take some of the remuneration. Within normal business, this is all very easily regulated. That is not at all settled in the judiciary. It seems to be the VVD Group, together with the CDA Group, or let me put it the other way around, it seems to the CDA Group, together with the VVD Group, that we support these last two amendments by the CDA Group, because it is a very sensible idea to give that power. I hope that all the powers now laid down will be used as little as they have been used in recent years. But then we have the certainty that the judiciary can get through when it is needed and that it has the opportunity to properly implement the independence and the enormous privilege of a life-long appointment. That is why the VVD Group has tabled these amendments together with the CDA Group and the PvdA Group. We know that the Minister cannot and may not advise the Chamber on this, for the simple reason that this is legally excluded. This also indicates that that amendment should be adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u40	Mr. Chairman. At the moment there are two disciplinary measures that can be imposed on dysfunctional judicial officials: the written warning and dismissal. The bill adds disciplinary measures. One is the disciplinary suspension. This is different from the current suspension as stated in Article 46f of the Law on the Law of Judicial Officials. The written warning only undergoes a name change and becomes a written reprimand, because that sounds less non-binding. At least that's what it says in the explanatory memorandum. However, it also states that it remains the lightest measure that can be imposed. Not only the President of the Supreme Court, but also the Supreme Court as a college can give that written reprimand. These small changes are a very small step in the right direction. However, my group believes that it has little deterrent effect. To illustrate the following. Research carried out some time ago has shown that wrong judges are hardly being dealt with. Only once has a judge been fired and that only happened after this judge had caused problems for as many as 14 years. The Court of Justice replied to that investigation: "the gap between the existing measures of a written warning and dismissal is too large and there is a need for interim measures'. However, the disciplinary measures announced in this legislative proposal would be inadequate in many of the cases examined. The PVV therefore wants to know why the Minister believes that a name change of a measure or the proposed measure of a suspension of up to three months or the suspension that can be imposed as an urgent measure of order will solve those problems. My group does not believe in that. Why doesn't the Minister go through with it? Let it be clear that the proposed Article 46fa regulates the possibility of acting as quickly as possible if a judicial official cannot be maintained in the workplace because of his actions. The aim is to make it possible to bring an action for suspension before the Supreme Court in those cases. A provisional measure can then be taken as a matter of urgency. And in order to distinguish this from the suspension that still has to be followed, a request for out-of-service status is then referred to. The out-of-function clause, which is also stated in the explanatory memorandum, does not have the purpose of sanctioning. How is the Minister going to ensure that judges who have been dismissed for misbehaving no longer receive financial compensation? And how is the Minister going to make sure that judges can't keep each other's heads above their heads? If the measures are then hardly used, then of course we will not achieve what we want or what the Minister wants. That's not supposed to happen, is it? Is the Minister prepared, while respecting the independence of the judiciary, to promote faster use of these instruments of action? I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. I have just pointed out that my group believes that more needs to be done. As far as my group is concerned, too much internal handling should be avoided. I was just talking about judges holding hands over each other. There is an integrity agency within the police organization. Why is that not so in the judiciary? Or why is there no independent disciplinary board for judges, as Mr Knoops has already suggested? There, the procedures can be speeded up, citizens can easily go to court with their complaints and judges can be judged independently, for example by former judges. The Court of Justice indicated at the time that consideration would be given to whether there should be a disciplinary board or an integrity office. What's the outcome of this? Is the Council going to deal with this and if not, why not? Can the Minister ask the Council for its ruling on this matter? In doing so, the PVV, as we know, believes that judges should no longer be appointed for life. Judges must be appointed for a certain term of office, which shall automatically expire after, for example, 10 years, after which reappointment may be possible. Previously, during a general discussion on the judiciary, my group has already indicated that this reappointment should be discussed at a college set up by the judiciary itself. It is not easy to see why every employee has a working and assessment meeting and the gentlemen and ladies of the judiciary should be protected from this. In the same general consultation, the Minister also announced that there would be a move from evaluation discussions to operational discussions. What is the state of play? Judges are also people and people make mistakes. For the sake of completeness, reference can be made to the statements made in the cases of Lucia de Berk and the Putten murder case, which are known to all. A fixed term appointment is not contrary to the personal independence of the judges as laid down in Article 117 of the Constitution. This was already decided in the 1970s by the European Court of Human Rights in the Ringeisen versus Austria case. In Switzerland, Norway and Finland there are also fixed-term appointments. I'm coming to a conclusion. Finally, the PVV considers that judicial officials should register all their functions. This means that a deputy judge must also register his principal relationship. That is why I have tabled an amendment which provides for the obligation for judicial officials whose secondary relationship consists of a principal relationship to register the same relationship in the register. This is not yet explicitly stated in the law. I am referring to Article 44 of the Law on the Law of Judicial Officials. This affects, as a general rule, judges and alternates, but they often also have a number of relationships in addition to that deputy courtship. We have already discussed in general consultation that it is also about the spirit of that register. The intention is that one can see what kind of functions a judge has and whether there may be a conflict of interest. That is why my group considers the amendment necessary. Openness is important to control and prevent any conflicts of interest. The purpose of mentioning a secondary relationship is to prevent this and to identify any conflict of interest between a judicial official. Full openness to relations carried out outside that office is essential to the confidence in the independence of a judge, regardless of whether it is a principal or ancillary relationship. On that point, I would like a response from the Minister. That brings me to the end of my speech. I see I still owe you an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u41	Yes, it has been a long time, but Mr Van der Steur has now made up his mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u42	I thought Mrs Helder was going to say something about the first part of her amendment. I have just received the amendment, but if I read it correctly, it requires in the first part that judicial officials disclose the membership of a political group. Would she like to say something about that, too? I did not hear that in her speech. That seems to me to be at least a rather violent change to the system we have, in which judges are independent but above all impartial, literally and figuratively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u43	It seemed obvious to me that you'd just mention that. That's kind of nice to know for the citizen who comes to court. By the way, it's already happening. I know an example where that is just neatly in the register. It concerns membership of Mr Van der Steur's political party. It's just in the register. So I do not see why this is at once a very serious breach of current practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u44	This would fit in with a joke. You could say that it might be so special that a judge is a member of the VVD that that should be mentioned separately, although I think that is not so bad in the judiciary. But I do not hear what Mrs Helder is trying to do with this. What is the importance of membership of a judge's political party? And what does it do with the impartiality of the judge? I'm not saying that for nothing, because judges are supposed to be impartial. There is also no record of any belief or sexual orientation of judges. Perhaps this is also interesting for the citizen in Mrs Helder's reasoning. But that is not exactly what we want with the Dutch judiciary. That is why I am asking Mrs Helder for an explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u45	I've just given that explanation, and I'm sticking with that. It is already happening, so I do not see why this is so shocking and Mr Van der Steur makes such a point of it. It's already happening. It's important for the citizen to know. That is what more people think, because in Vrij Nederland there is almost every year an investigation which states which political party judges are part of. That's a survey. They fill them in neatly, so they themselves do not see the danger of Mr Van der Steur at all. I mean 'the danger that Mr Van der Steur sketches', not 'the danger of Mr Van der Steur'. Let me just say that for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u46	With that danger, will your speech end?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u47	Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u48	Well, at least we'll know. I would like to thank Mrs Helder for her first-term contribution. I invite Mr Oskam of the Group of the Christian Democrat and Reform Party to shape his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u49	Mr. Chairman. We saved the judges for the last time. A legislative proposal is under discussion today to allow more disciplinary action to be taken against judges if unacceptable behaviour is involved. The CDA Group supports the idea of expanding the range. The first question that arises: why is it necessary? The reason is clearly not that the number of disciplinary measures imposed within the judiciary would give rise to this. As Mr Van Nispen said, a written warning was issued once in 2013. That is good, because that would imply that there is not often unacceptable behaviour within the profession. The CDA Group therefore expresses its support and admiration for all those people who judge every day according to conscience. Then why is this bill? Justice is at the heart of society. Judges make judgments on matters that affect citizens directly or can have a major social impact, particularly in criminal law but also in other areas. Judges have a large but also a heavy responsibility. As a result of this heavy responsibility, it is a logical requirement that people who judge undisputed behavior should be. This is very important for the credibility, independence and impartiality of justice. If there are reasonable doubts about this, it must be possible to respond appropriately. That is not the case at the moment, because the instruments are limited. On the basis of the current Law on the legal status of judicial officials, only a written warning or resignation can be given. Such a written warning, as I know from my experience in justice, is already seen by judges as very painful. There is a gap between them, and the wish of the case-law itself is to be able to react more flexibly in the event of incidents, as evidenced by the report of the Stevens working group. That report made useful recommendations which partly form the basis for some of the amendments tabled by Mr van der Steur and myself. Recent case-law of the European Court of Human Rights also shows that disciplinary law for judges should be strengthened. The CDA Group therefore supports the proposed extension of the measures. The CDA Group still has a number of questions and suggestions through the proposed amendments, which aim to tighten up the legislative proposal and also allow tailor-made measures to be applied in the application of disciplinary measures. If it turns out that judges have shown unacceptable behaviour, and this behavior directly affects cases that they deal with, does that weigh extra heavily in the assessment? This includes a judicial official who specialises in fraud cases and is subsequently convicted of fraud. That's directly connected to the case. The report of the internal working group on disciplinary interim measures, the Stevens working group of 2009, also raises the question of whether the proposals for disciplinary interim measures should also apply to the non-life-appointed members of the judiciary, namely the members of the Public Prosecutor's Office. This question will, as indicated, be brought to the attention of the College of Attorneys General. However, in the note following the report, the Minister states that the Bra, the Decree on the legal status of judicial officials, already contains sufficient instruments for sanctions against officers and Advocates-General. The CDA Group asks the government whether this decision allows for the same measures proposed in the present legislative proposal, in accordance with the opinion of the College of Attorneys General that it is only logical that disciplinary measures should be imposed on the courts comparable to those which can be imposed on prosecutors. So I would like an answer from the Minister on whether it works in two directions. I will conclude with the amendments tabled by the CDA and the VVD. These aim to strengthen the legislative proposal in a number of logical parts and also to provide tailor-made work in disciplinary justice for judges. The first is the possibility of providing for a written warning. The written warning is so heavy that it could lead to dismissal if you get it twice. You could say, "Twice yellow is red." That's not entirely true. It is ultimately up to the President of the Court, depending on the degree of unacceptable behaviour; but it is a very heavy measure. Another possibility is the re-consultation by a judicial official of a proof of good conduct, the vog. In the meantime, a person who has been appointed for life may have committed miscarriages and failed to report them to his President. Well, then it's okay if the president gets wind of that and says, "Come on, let's have that dog." That's how we make it clear and discussable. The CDA Group looks forward to the government's response to the amendments on the possibility of imposing sanctions on a conditional basis and the retention of remuneration as a measure. In the meantime, I understand from Mr van der Steur that these amendments will be submitted to the Council of State. That's what I get from the walkways, by the way. I would like to return to Mr Van der Steur's remarks on the interruption of Mr Nispen. Judges do work in ranks. At the courthouse, you have the normal judge in scale 15. The senior judge, formerly the vice president, is in scale in 16. Vice Presidents at the court are paid as much as a councilman at the court. Up there, you used to have vice presidents named senior councillor. I think they're in scale 17. Well, there's room for fluctuation. You also hit a judge or a counselor in his wallet when he gets that kind of emotion. Finally, a final comment on the holding of remuneration. This possibility is lacking in the Minister's bill. The Minister indicated that the Stevens working group did not mention this. That is not the case, because on page 10 of the report, the working group writes that it would be advisable to include such a provision, namely the provision of remuneration in accordance with Article 14 of the General Government's Rules of Procedure, also for judicial officials in the Wrra. In the opinion of the CDA Group, this is a logical recommendation because it is also the case in other professions. Hence the amendment tabled. I would like a reaction from the government or from the Council of State. The reason why the government has chosen not to take over, I would like to hear from the Minister, as well as how he looks at this amendment. I'm ready, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u50	I suspected that, but before you leave the rostrum, there is another interruption by Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u51	I have a question for Mr Oskam on that last amendment. Mr Oskam's proposal is a disciplinary measure to withhold a judge, for reasons of course, for a maximum period of three months. Then something must have happened or something must be wrong with the quality of the court and its judgments. Does the quality increase if you don't pay someone for three months, but you make them work?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u52	It is a disciplinary measure that can be applied in the event of unacceptable behaviour. Unacceptable behaviour, for example, could be a judge in this case. Today, judges have to keep their own leave in the system, which takes a few weeks' extra leave but does not book off and runs into the lamp in an audit. The president can say I can suspend you, I can give you a reprimand or a warning, but it's much better if I catch you in your wallet if you've taken too much leave. This does not reduce the quality of justice, but it is a punishment that is functional and appropriate in such situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u53	I have already understood from the Minister's current bill that someone who does not work is not getting a paycheck. The question I would like to ask the Minister is whether this is indeed the case. Has the bill already dealt with that if you haven't worked, so taking up too much vacation, the pay can't be paid? And then there's the measure. I do not want to compare it with it, but in certain poorer countries we are very reluctant to do so or we are precisely ensuring that judges are properly paid. We do that to prevent corruption and so on. I certainly do not want to compare it with that, but we must be careful when it comes to financializing judges. I don't know if I want a judge on a case I know he won't get paid for three months.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u54	In the end, the imposition of that measure is reserved for the President of the Court. He'll handle it appropriately. It is obvious to hit someone financially if they have also benefited financially from their work. When it comes to fraud, of course it's gonna be fired. But in cases like this, you could be thinking of holding up your salary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u55	This has put an end to Mr Oskam's contribution in the first term. We are going from one judge to another, even though Mr Oskam does not deny his past as a referee, I think I have noticed. We're going to see a judge with a zero-hour contract and 15 minutes' speaking time. I call Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u56	Mr. Chairman. I've been a politician and not a judge for over four years. The case law in the Netherlands is at great height. Research after research simply shows the good quality and integrity. So when discussing this bill today, it will be about exceptions, large exceptions, cases where it goes wrong. The Court, the Government and, moreover, the case law itself consider that the range of sanctions should be wider. This bill is a good initiative. Society has long stopped accepting authority and authority as a given. Nor is the authority and authority of the judge given. In this case, this is particularly true because judges have also been appointed for life. That's right. This is due to their independence. On the other hand, however, there must be transparency, proper functioning, good internal control mechanisms and action if this is not to be the case in this very exceptional situation. I take a side step: I have already suggested that an outsider should be included in the right of complaint within the judicial system, i.e. if a complaint is lodged with the President, in order to introduce eyes from outside and increase confidence. Trust in the judge is necessary. In order to maintain this, an appropriate sanction, not too heavy and not too light, is necessary if it is not going well. I've looked at what's been proposed by the government. I did that with these glasses on: what is there for ordinary officials and why should you deviate from that for judges? This is a more limited palette than the palette that applies to ordinary officials. First of all, there has been a good hearing of the profession, of the various bodies within the profession. For example, the duration of the suspension has been reduced from one year to three months in response to comments from the profession. That's fine. In anticipation of the amendment by the VVD and the PvdA groups on Article 51, which concerns the right of consent of the trade union of judges, I have the following question. To what extent is this what the cabinet really wants? Or has the cabinet, just sticking to Article 51, come up with a more limited range of measures than it really wanted? After all, if there is a right of consent at the back, then you should also consult with that partner. I also read in the explanatory memorandum to this bill that this consultation took place on page 7. It explains what Article 51 of the Law on the legal status of civil servants means, and then it says: "A final agreement was reached with the NVvR during the consultation of the proposal." In short, the cabinet only submitted this bill after agreement with the union. That's a strange situation. I'll come back to this later. The amendment I tabled together with Mr Van der Steur of the VVD is about emotion and forced transfer. That was an additional measure which I thought might make sense. What kind of situation am I thinking about? I am thinking in particular of the senior judge in the past you would have called that "Vice President" who is in charge of the management of the court. You can imagine saying, if anything goes wrong, you go back to the execution. Then it makes sense that you don't do that in court or court where you work, but that you do that in another courtroom. Hence the addition of the forced transfer as a penalty measure. You already have it in the framework of an order measure. That's all I can think of. As I say to Mr Van Nispen, I have already received e-mails from former colleagues saying: if you are being transferred from court to court as a punishment, that is not a punishment at all; it is rather a punishment if it is the other way around. I do believe that you can think differently about this sanction measure. So I think that's a less valid argument. In particular, for the example I had in my head, I wholeheartedly support that amendment. On the other amendments, I am still looking at the cat from the tree. I'm not sure about that. There are good elements in it, but I also have some questions. I think the idea of the Vog is good, but I do have a question for the Minister. If a judge comes into contact with the criminal justice officer, is that automatically known to the court board? Depending on the answer, I can assess whether I can also support the amendment, which regulates the possibility of asking more often for a vog. The same applies to the other amendments, on the retention of remuneration and the written warning. I wanted to ask what is the difference between the written warning and the written reprimand. In any case, I read in the explanatory statement that the cabinet considers these two cases to be the same. It says that there is now a written warning by the President, and that it still exists after the introduction of this bill, but it is called a reprimand. Apparently, the cabinet thinks this is the same. Mr Van Nispen has also made a number of proposals. They'll strike in a motion, so I'll take a critical look at that. I do take a critical look at his proposals. Again, I like to see if functions are compatible, but we already have a system for that. Maybe that system needs tightening up. If the government is asked in the motion to look again at whether the system needs tightening, I am more enthusiastic than if the motion goes much further and a whole new system has to be put in place. We already have a register of secondary functions. Well, let me just wait and see the motions. I find it difficult to respond in detail without knowing the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u57	I get that. I will certainly refer the motions to Mr Recourt if I so wish. I will not ask for it at the level of detail, but more generally ask him the following. It is good that Mr Recourt wants to think along with this and look at it with an open eye. So far, however, it has been mainly about the disciplinary measures, penalties and sanctions that we still need, which we really need very little. I am critical of the added value of this; that should be clear. My proposals relate much more to trying to avoid fuss, so the appearance of conflict of interest and bias. I hope it appeals to the PvdA to look more at prevention than at repression.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u58	Mr Van Nispen hits the nail on the head; he totally agrees. It is, of course, the case that these measures fill the basket of possibilities in particular. In that sense, they only promote customization. So I would like to make a comment back: I assume that the SP is also very suitable for customization. Prevention is always good, but you shouldn't shoot through it either. Again, there's a register in which one has to give up side functions, but do you have to build up that register further? I have private shares in a number of companies, for example. Do you have to put that in? What interest should I have in stock? Should my husband's work or my partner's work be in it? I'm a little hesitant to make this extremely transparent, while all the general norm exists that you change at the moment you're not free. I'm really afraid of over-regulation, I have to be honest. But I like to watch critically. Or critical... I like to watch positively critically. I come to the point that stimulates me most, namely Article 51 Law on the legal status of judicial officials. I must say, I was rather surprised when I read that article. I didn't know it. If you read that article correctly, you can see that it's nice that the minister is here, but he doesn't have the last word. We in the Chamber do not have the last word either. If we unanimously say that the Minister must do something, the Minister says that you can accept that law, but I do not know whether I am going to do that, because the union has the right to approve it. To be honest, I find that an absurd situation. I give the trade unions everything and I am very much in favour of participation, consultation and all those things more, but I think this is a democratic mistake. I've been looking for where this came from, but I haven't been able to find it. I do have some reasoning about it. This right of assent already exists for ordinary officials, only for General Measure of Management. You can get over that with a law in a formal sense. If the legislator finds anything in a formal sense, the union cannot say: you can find what you find, but we are not going to do it anyway. Because, for example, you lay down the remuneration in the law with judges because of that independence, and that is entirely right as far as I am concerned, I think that this measure too has been promoted to law unintentionally or not. And then you get this crazy collision where you suddenly aren't the highest body in democracy as a parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u59	Colleague Van Nispen asked if there had been any talk with the NVvR. It was initially an amendment by Mr Van der Steur and you were added later. Have you discussed the substance of this amendment with the NVVR?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u60	No, I didn't talk about it in substance. That is not the fault of the NVvR, because I myself found out relatively late. I myself began to make an amendment which looked a little different than Mr Van der Steur's. My amendment sought to exclude disciplinary measures from Article 51. Anyway, this afternoon I spoke to Mr Van der Steur in the hallway. He said that he had been working on his amendment for some time and that he would submit it this afternoon. Since I do not think that we should table double amendments, I am happy to join him. So that's how it happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u61	Earlier in his speech, Mr Recourt said that he was a little dissatisfied with... No, let me rephrase. Mr Recourt asked the Minister how it went. Apparently it has been discussed and the NVvR has had a lot of influence. He asked what the minister himself had in mind. I conclude from this that Mr Recourt is dissatisfied with the influence the trade union has had on this bill. The result of this discontent is an amendment which not only allows the trade union to stop talking about disciplinary measures and so on, but also deprives the right of assent of all kinds of other legal measures. Is it proportionate to change that article if you are dissatisfied with the way in which this law came about?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u62	What I wanted to say earlier is that I do not know whether this is the position of the cabinet or whether this is the position of the cabinet after it has been restricted by the NVvR. That's the point I wanted to make. A bigger point is that I think this is a democratic gap. I really don't think that's possible. However, this is without prejudice to the fact that I believe that a union should have a firm foothold and a firm position towards the employer. However, I do not know any union that has such a strong legal right. No matter what the Chamber or the Cabinet thinks, the NVvR can stop that in execution. So I think that is too strong a tool. However, I do think that trade unions, and hence the NVVR, should be able to reply. Moreover, the remuneration of judges is linked to that of civil servants, but they have a separate scale laid down separately in the law for reasons of independence. I heard Mr Oskam say that he suspects that all this is still going to the Council of State. Let us ask the Council of State what he thinks of this, whether this is indeed a strange legal arrangement and whether this makes sense because otherwise we will be in the courts in its independence. It doesn't make any sense to me. I almost wanted to use big terms again, but let's see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u63	I would just like to say that I think it is very appropriate that we should submit all these amendments, which go a long way in some respects or which are at least far-reaching, to the Council of State. I will certainly support that, as far as I am asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u64	It's on the record. Mr Recourt continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u65	I'm gonna finish this subject. Moreover, the right of consent of ordinary officials governed by the General Measure of Management has already been deleted with the consent of the House of Representatives. It's in the First Chamber now. I do not remember the other party, because I myself was not present in the discussion of the legislative proposal on the equalisation of the legal status of civil servants with that of ordinary workers, this right of assent for civil servants has also been deleted. The House of Representatives agreed to that. My group has also agreed, I say reluctantly. However, I do not know whether the SP Group has agreed to this. Is the Constitution, Articles 116 and 117, then guaranteed? Is the independence of the court, which is governed by this, among other things, guaranteed? I've seen the press release, too. It states that the independence of the judge is at stake as soon as you change the colour of Article 51. I do not see how independence is at stake. All the measures we are talking about here are imposed, reviewed and controlled by judges themselves. We only fill the tray with possibilities. Even if you limit Article 15, both the NVvR and the Council have the right to advise on everything regarding the court. This is then always discussed in the Lower House and in the Upper Chamber. Both chambers have a duty to test this against the Constitution. If it has passed all those steps in the democratic process, then there is also the judge himself. Although he cannot check the Constitution, he can, for example, check the European Convention on Human Rights and other conventions that guarantee the independence of the courts. So I really do not see how the independence of the judge is affected by the fact that Article 51 of the Law on the Law on Judicial Officials is actually normalized. Having completed the discussion on this last point, I have come to the end of my speech. I'm waiting with interest for the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u66	I thank Mr Recourt for his contribution. Perhaps in abundance I mention the following. Mr Van Nispen just referred to asking for the opinion of the Council of State. The Minister may be asked to do so. It only fits MPs to ask the Council of State for information. I think Mr Van Nispen referred to the first possibility. This brings to an end the first term of office. I understand the Minister has requested a ten-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u67	I call the Minister for Security and Justice for the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u68	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the honourable Members for the good and open manner in which they have dealt with this important legislative proposal. Let me begin, like the spokesmen, with a few introductory words. An integrity, impartiality and independence of justice is the cornerstone of the democratic rule of law. The quality and integrity of justice and its trust are of the utmost importance. The maintenance of trust and the strengthening of confidence are constantly calling for attention, including from the legislator. This confidence means, among other things, that we expect judges to carry out high-quality work. We also want judges to be extremely honest and undisputed. If that is not the case with a judge or if there are reasonable doubts about it, appropriate action must be taken. Judges must be independent but not actually untouchable. If a judge does not perform his duties properly, appropriate corrective measures should be possible. This is also the purpose of the legislative proposal: to provide for a modern and differentiated system of measures so that, in practice, proportionate measures can be taken when a judge flies. Two disciplinary measures have now been introduced into the law: warning and disciplinary dismissal. All the spokesmen have also pointed this out. In addition, the law contains several measures of order that can be imposed. The current package is perceived by the practice itself as insufficient. In the light of the report of the Sevens working group itself, I repeat, the case law has called for a more differentiated system of correction. In this legislative proposal, I meet this need with the following disciplinary measures and measures of order. There will be a disciplinary suspension for up to three months in which the salary can be deducted. There will also be an accelerated procedure in cases where the court can no longer be kept in office: an emergency temporary dismissal. In addition, in exceptional cases an involuntary transfer is possible. It also provides that a judicial official who deliberately does not perform his duties may be reduced to his salary. Finally, a statement of behaviour becomes a legal requirement for appointment. The question can be asked.. some spokesmen have also done so...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I think I have found a good balance in this. There has been a wide-ranging discussion with and within the case-law on this proposal. The judiciary also sees this as an appropriate and proportionate package. This gives me confidence that in future there will be sufficient opportunities to act appropriately in the event of unacceptable behaviour. That is what I want to say at the beginning of my reply. There has also been talk of the NVvR. I can tell Mr Recourt that I believe that the NVvR has listened to me very carefully. We have normally had strong discussions and the result is now before us. He may say: that's a nice start but it needs to be widened. That is why we are holding this consultation. In any case, I would like to make it clear that I came to this package in good consultation with the NVvR. I shall now make a proposal for the further procedure on the amendments. I would like to say, however, that the requirement of conformity has a history. It has been in the law since 1994, but has a longer history.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u69	Before we get to that history, it might be good to have Mr Recourt ask his question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u70	I assume it went into good consultation immediately. It's not about how it actually happened either. The point I wanted to make is this. The cabinet finds something about it, then the NVvR finds something about it and then we find it in the legal history and then we can make a judgment about it as a Chamber itself. However, that is not happening now. I now read in the explanatory statement that you have an agreement. And that is the bill of law, but I would not know what that agreement was about and what the points of discussion were. Do you share that observation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u71	I'm sticking to the law. That's obvious. I have not come to a legislative amendment in which Article 51 is no longer in force. The bill's here on the table. That does not alter the fact that there are amendments. I just wanted to point out that this bill has a history and that it is not for nothing. I think it would be a good thing for the debate, as some of the spokesmen have already said, to make a proposal for the procedure in advance. The Council of State is involved in this. However, I see Mr Recourt...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u72	You mean Mr Van der Steur.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u73	... look at Mr. Van der Steur. Yeah, I know the positions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u74	Yes, and you're watching that from your side again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u75	And now I keep my mouth shut to give you the opportunity to allow Mr van der Steur's interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u76	That's what I'm gonna do, especially on your authority. It seems to me that the Minister will soon have the opportunity to indicate his own procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u77	By the way, I am used to getting all kinds of names in the Chamber, so I will also be glad to wear Mr Recourt's name. Before the Minister goes into the substance of the amendments, I would like to ask him whether he agrees with the observation by the VVD Group that the instruments now laid down for the judiciary, including all the amendments, are still far from what you can do in a normal company with employees. This is justified by the special position of judges in society, but it is a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u78	I have clearly recognised this in Mr Van der Steur's speech and others. I think it would be good for the debate procedure to have a clear assessment of the content of the amendments. For that, I would like to have an opinion from the Council of State. I'd like to explain that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u79	I see Mr Van der Steur standing at the interrupting microphone, but I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to indicate how he is going to structure his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u80	I'm so done with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u81	Then Mr Van der Steur can post his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u82	Yeah, then he can interrupt after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u83	Yes. Mr van der Steur, I will not count your first question as interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u84	I have listened carefully to everyone's input and I have taken note of the amendments tabled by the various groups, particularly by Mr Van der Steur, but also by Mr Recourt, Mr Oskam and Mrs Helder. In general, I would like to say the following about the amendments. The law states that regulations governing the legal status of judicial officials are only implemented if they are approved by the Sectoral Committee of the judiciary. In practice, this means that the NVvR is requested to give its consent before a legislative proposal is submitted. That is what has happened with this proposal, and I repeat that. We agree that proportionate and adequate action should be taken if judges fail to perform their duties properly. The consent requirement applies not only to the legislative proposals submitted by the government; it also applies under the law to the regulations which are incorporated into a legislative proposal by means of an amendment. The NVvR did not accept the amendments. If I had to give a judgment now, I would have to discourage them as Minister of Security and Justice. That is what Mr Van der Steur said. I think that many of the substantive questions on the legislative proposal are related to the amendments. I would therefore suggest that, before we discuss the content of the legislative proposal further, I will, of course, answer the questions later, and the government will ask the Council of State for its opinion on the amendments. As far as I am concerned, this opinion could cover both the content of the amendments tabled and the absence of the agreement of the NVVR. I am, of course, taking that amendment into account. All the amendments that have been tabled will then come from me with the opinion of the Council of State plus, of course, the opinion of the Cabinet, heard from the Council of State. I will, of course, also be free to discuss the amendments with the NVVR before I ask the Cabinet for a position, as I have heard the opinion of the Council of State. I will then let you know and then we will be able to enter into the second term. I would show no respect for the opinion of the Council of State, which is yet to come, if I were to preach now a possible position of the cabinet on the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u85	The Minister clearly states that he wishes to request an opinion from the Council of State. This means that he does not now give a substantive opinion on the amendments. Perhaps he will answer a number of outstanding questions; I cannot entirely judge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u86	I had not yet given my opinion on this suggestion on the part of the Minister. The VVD Group agrees. I think it's very good that the Council of State is giving advice. Moreover, this is exactly the same route that was followed in 2006, by one of the ministers of the current Minister of Security and Justice, who also asked the Council of State for advice on the Weekers/Wolfsen amendment. That opinion was ultimately negative, but the Chamber adopted the amendment. I think it's good that we know that. There is one question I would like to ask the Minister. Suppose the Council of State gives a positive opinion on these amendments, whereas the NVvR, which the Minister rightly says will speak with, advises negatively and refuses to accept. Do I see it right that, despite the positive opinion and despite Parliament's wish, the Minister will still have to discourage the amendments, because this is the result of the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u87	In essence, it is exactly what Mr Van der Steur says. I have to enforce and enforce the law. I took an oath to do that, so I'm gonna do that. Of course, I always hold my own responsibility. I would first like to see and read the opinions of the Council of State. I want to speak to the NVVR, open and with the cards on the table. I also want to listen to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u88	Of course, the VVD Group appreciates that very much, but I note that the Minister's reply shows exactly why Mr Recourt and I believe that this amendment is necessary. In essence, it means the following. Suppose Parliament has a wish in the area of this bill, on which the Council of State gives a positive opinion and perhaps so does the Court of Justice. Then the Minister is forced, by the refusal of the Dutch Association for Justice, the union of judges and prosecutors, to say in the Chamber that he should discourage the amendment, even if he himself thinks it is a very good idea. That is proof that this article cannot and cannot remain in this law as it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u89	All the amendments I am not giving a substantive opinion on this, not even at the beginning of it, will be discussed in the Cabinet and will receive an opinion and a judicum from the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u90	I suspect that this is the answer to many questions that will follow. In order to continue the debate, it is essential that members be able to agree to the Minister's intention to make this request for an opinion. That is why I ask Members to speak out. I do not know if that was your intention, Mr Van Nispen, but I am now giving you the floor for your interruption or your agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u91	I shall then reply to Mr Van Nispen's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u92	Let us wait and see what Mr Van Nispen has to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u93	Exciting. I absolutely agree with asking for advice from the Council of State. My opinion is that Mr Van der Steur is turning a mosquito into an elephant. I understand what Mr Van der Steur is trying to do, but I am pleased that the Advisory Section of the Council of State is being asked for an opinion, including on the amendment relating to Article 51. After all, it is not just about the disciplinary measures we are discussing today, but about all the legal measures, including the protection structure that we have built in specifically for judges. It is very good that the Council of State is going to look at this and that we will not be forced to vote on it in the very short term, even though we only received the amendment yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u94	Then your appreciation of the request for advice is clear. I would like to ask the same question to Mrs Helder and Mr Oskam, in that order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u95	I did not get up so quickly after Mr Van der Steur had used up his interruption. Mr Van der Steur did not ask the Minister's opinion on the amendment, he concluded with a question. This was about Article 51 of the current Law on the legal status of judicial officials. The fact that he wants to amend that with an amendment is unrelated to that. I have not yet heard a reply from the Minister to Mr Van der Steur's statement that the current article of the Law on Civil Service Law provides that the Dutch Association for the Prosecution of Justice has the last word, rather than the Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u96	That's the question. What is your appreciation of the advice that the cabinet is going to ask the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u97	I think this is a good step. Let's do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u98	That is important to know for the progress of this debate. I would also like to ask Mr Oskam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u99	I think it's a sensible step forward, so I'm okay with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u100	That goes for me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u101	Now that the Minister has received a broad response from the Chamber to his intention to seek advice from the Council of State, I would like to ask the Minister to reply to those questions which he believes he can answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u102	There are a number of questions I can answer. They could perhaps lead to motions in the second term in due course. Mr Van Nispen asked whether there should be a ban on lawyers, civil servants and politicians acting as a substitute judge. Judge substitutes are incredibly valuable to justice. For example, they bring in specialist knowledge and are a source of additional capacity and quality. That is why a great deal of thought is being given to how the use of these judges' alternates can be regulated in such a way as to avoid conflicts of interest. The Directives on the prevention of conflicts of interest therefore include specific opinions for judges-alternates. In addition, a working group of directors has specifically considered this issue within the case law. This working group will shortly come forward with concrete proposals for, for example, additional rules of conduct. The case-law is therefore also constantly working to see whether there is still enough work to be done. I have a lot of faith in that. I await these proposals and the Council's position before taking a position on them. Should there be a ban on the combination of active justice and membership of parliament, parliament, politics? Mr Oskam and Mr Recourt have said something about this. It's clear. The starting point for judges to be an active part of society is unchanged. The holding of ancillary posts is therefore seen as a useful complement to the judicial office. As far as the combination of an active courtship with politics is concerned, in the caselaw the combination with a membership of the House of Representatives is generally considered undesirable. It is therefore not recommended in the guide to impartiality and secondary functions in the case law. Such combinations are no longer in practice either. It is still being examined whether a legal ban is necessary and has added value. This is discussed in a working group in which the Presidents of the courts, the Court of Justice and the NVvR meet. It will make recommendations on the further improvement of existing guidelines and codes of conduct. Once the working group has given its opinion, the Council will take a position on the matter in the case-law. I will involve this in the further decision-making process. I think this is typically a situation which I can leave to the organs of the judiciary themselves with confidence. That is the quality that is guaranteed within the sedentary magistrate. Should the financial interests of judges be registered? This, too, concerns one of the recommendations in the System Guarantees report for the core values of the case law, from 2014. The Court of Justice has asked the Working Party on Integrity Measures within the case-law to advise on reporting of the financial interests of judges; what is and what is not? The Working Group has also been asked whether it is advisable to include it in a public register. The opinion is expected to be finalised in the first half of 2015. The Council for Justice will then come up with a position. The Council's position on the case law will then be taken back into account. So we're gonna take a good look at this. The judiciary is working on this in all its parts. How do I stand on the idea of registering the side functions of judges' partners? I know that one of the judges is generally aware of what he's doing. Within the case-law, the so-called "Guidelines impartiality and ancillary functions in the case-law" of the NVvR is used. The guide sets out principles for monitoring impartiality. One of the starting points is the recommendation that a judge does not deal with a case if there is a relationship in this case with a function or ancillary function of, inter alia, a partner. The System Guarantees report on the core values of the case law recommends that attention be paid to the registration of those functions and secondary functions of the judge's partner. The Justice Council asked the Working Party on Integrity Measures within the case-law to come forward with a response. We'll wait for them. We shall first allow the judiciary itself to express its views on this matter in all its parts. Is there a need for greater transparency on the allocation of court cases? This, too, concerns one of the recommendations of the report I have just mentioned, Systemic safeguards for the core values of justice. At the request of the Court of Justice, a working group has been working for some time on the design of a model for the allocation of court cases to judges, the so-called code of case allocation. The development of this code took some time, as a working group of European Councils for Justice also looked at the same subject. The findings of this European working group were awaited so that they could be taken into account. Here, too, the Council of Justice is in the final stage. They urgently ask that they be given time to determine the direction in which they are going to go. I have a lot of faith in that. I come now to Mr Van Nispen's question...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u103	I think he has a question first on the previous subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u104	The Minister responded to the three proposals I made. That sounds positive. I appreciate the fact that the case law itself has started to work on this. I have not tabled any amendments on purpose either, because I believe that the case-law itself should be given time. Here and there, the Minister has set a deadline. I also understand that we should not be rushing them, but it would be nice if we could include this subject in the second term. Does it look like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u105	I honestly do not think so, because I think the Council of State mans enough to deliver an opinion on the amendments within a reasonable time. I don't want it to last too long. Moreover, I think that you can see this issue separately, because the thought that Mr Van Nispen has put forward does not need to lead to additional legislation. I think we need to be patient here. At least that's my position in this. There is no reason to put any pressure on the judiciary to look at this. They look at it and are very closely involved on the basis of the report with recommendations that they themselves have asked for. They have working groups there. Let those people do their job. Give them the peace that the Chamber otherwise wishes them. Otherwise, we would not increase the workload in a good way and we should not do so in this context. I come to another question from Mr Van Nispen. How can a lack of quality of content in courts lead to a measure against them? In principle, poor quality of content should be addressed within the normal system of working conversations, additional training and peer coaching. If the normal system of working conversations does not work, this may give rise to dismissal for incapacity for work. Well, there's got to be something going on. It is always up to the pg at the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court to assess whether there is sufficient reason for dismissal. It is not for me to make that assessment. It is also in line with the system of the Constitution that only judges judge the conduct of judges. Mr Van Nispen asked when the measure of suspension would have to withhold wages. The question in which cases which measure is appropriate must be determined in practice by the case-law itself. The legislator fits in with distance. However, the legislator has a responsibility to ensure an appropriate set of practical measures. That is also the purpose of this legislative proposal and, I understand, of a number of amendments. It cannot be ruled out in advance that there are such serious infringements that a full deduction of the salary is appropriate. There is room to provide customization in relation to the personal circumstances of the judge. The final verdict is also here with the Supreme Court. Mrs Helder spoke about the pursuit of more imposed disciplinary measures. Of course, the question is whether the number of measures will increase. I do not expect that to happen, given that the trust in the integrity and quality of the judiciary is very high and that it is also receiving a great deal of attention within the ranks of the judiciary itself. In the unexpected event that something serious is going on, we must, of course, be able to act in an appropriate manner, even at this time. Therefore, the possibilities of tackling different forms of unwanted behaviour are increased. It is particularly important that targeted and proportionate action can be taken. It is not a goal, of no one in the Chamber, to impose more measures in future. If there is an increase, I do not expect that increase to be substantial. In the light of Article 117 of the Constitution, it is for the judiciary to decide on the imposition of a measure. Mrs Helder asked how I am going to ensure that judicial officials who are dismissed no longer receive financial compensation. That's how I understood her question. There is no provision for judicial officials to receive financial compensation if they leave the office by way of resignation. Certain agreements can be made by the case law as an employer. This may be justified in individual cases. I will not go into that, because it is up to the courts as employers to decide. Mr Oskam asked whether unacceptable behaviour is more important if this is related to the kind of cases the judge is doing. Again, this must be weighted by the case law itself, not by the legislator. The caselaw may take into account all the circumstances of the case. It's not for me to judge. Mr Oskam further asked what disciplinary measures could be imposed on a prosecutor. Does the Decree-Law permit judicial officials (Brra) to take the same measures as in the legislative proposal, given the position of the College of Attorneys General? Article 34b of the Bra provides that a range of measures may be imposed on officials other than judges. What's arranged here is equal to the ARAR. This is far more extensive than for judicial officials entrusted with the administration of justice, also in addition to the proposed amendments. So no, there is no complete equality with the Bra. I come to a number of questions that remain. Mr Van Nispen asked whether the internal quality review should be extended. I have already said a lot about this. In the case-law, a project is under way to assess the quality of judgments. Pilots have been experimented with methods of testing. On the basis of the results, a proposal has been made on how to introduce quality testing of judgments on a permanent basis. The proposal will be discussed this month with the Presidents of the courts and the Court of Justice. More generally, the quality of the case law has been extensively examined by Mr Cohen's Committee on Visitation. The External Visitation Committee has established that Dutch case law is going well, but that things can be done better. That is the right wording and the balance of my view to summarise briefly the Cohen report. Claims in this respect vary from court to court and also vary from team to team. It's a very good report. It is therefore now up to the courts to take up the recommendations together with the Council. They therefore differ from court to court and are thus also picked up by court. I think that's the right way to do it. The cuts were again brought in by Mr Van Nispen. He knows: it's a répétition between us. We have a proper agreement with the Justice Council until 2016. I don't need to mention the numbers again. We have already done so in detail in the budget and no changes have been made to it. I'm not worried about that. We will enter into negotiations again after 2016. As with the Public Prosecutor's Office, we have said that we are constantly, continuously monitoring this. The relationship between me and the Council of Justice is good, just as it is good between me and the College of Attorneys General. I believe that justice currently has a very good and sound financial starting point. Mrs Helder asked for the abolition of appointments for life. I think that's a shock. I am not shocked to hear her say that, but we are all formed here in this house and this country by the independent judge appointed for life. I can't imagine anything else. Nor can I imagine that this is for a certain period and that there will be a reappointment. It is about independence that is guaranteed in that appointment for life. Moreover, in 40 of the 47 countries of the Council of Europe, judges are appointed for life. Let's stick to the 40; our judges don't do bad. Mrs Helder asked about the state of play on the functioning discussions. Since 1 July 2014, the Decree on the legal status of judicial officials has included the need to conduct operational discussions. From the report of the Visitation Committee it can be concluded that this is not as frequent in all dishes and that improvements can still be made in practice on this point. The courts will work on the recommendations of the Visitation Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u106	Before you continue, Mr. Van Nispen had already jumped out of his chair. I'd like to give him the floor right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u107	The Minister said a number of things about the visitation report of the Cohen Commission. He has highlighted a few positive points, but he has not mentioned the critical notes, for example, that there is a very tight financial framework. I must also point out that what was to be read in the newspapers yesterday, namely that the cuts in justice would not apply in any case to justice. These cuts are going to continue. That's my conclusion. In my speech, I explicitly asked the Minister whether he was prepared to re-assess the Council's concerns for justice, the individual judges in the courts, who are dealing daily with this pressure to perform within the limited time required by the cuts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u108	After the introduction of the judicial card, in order to follow two processes very clearly, I naturally make effective work visits to all districts and courts, both at the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary. It concerns the KEI process and the strengthening of the criminal justice chain. That's what I'm focusing on. In my opinion, a task is often a means of strengthening yourself in a transition, because a number of things need to be done at that time. That's not really what the conversation's about. The conversation is, of course, about the content, the quality and the functioning. It is also a question of whether it is better, because it must always be better, and whether there are complaints. Of course I'm very receptive to that. There is no reason to take stock of anything now because of the financial situation. No, I am interested and have always gone to the Council for Justice. If there is reason to intervene, then we will not fail to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u109	That hand was mostly put out to spread a lot of cuts over them. It may be that the Minister does not hear those noises because he does not want to hear them, because he does not ask for them or because he sets the agenda and wants to talk in particular about the digitisation and strengthening of the criminal justice chain. All this must be done, of course, but I do hear those sounds, especially from judges who are concerned about the quality of the cuts. I would therefore ask the Minister once again whether he would like to inform the Chamber within a month of how he is dealing with this and what this means in concrete terms for the judges in the workplace. The Minister can actively ask for it and look for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u110	There is no reason to comply with Mr Van Nispen's request. We have talked about this once and again. There's no reason to do that extra. Nor should we continue to take stock; we should simply give the judiciary the room to do its job. That's what people want. We will certainly be discussing this in an AO, and I am always looking forward to it, and I can then, in my speech, express my experience and the impulses I have received from the work visits. Mr Recourt asked whether it was settled that criminal convictions should be reported to the court where a judge works. The Attorney General at the Supreme Court shall be responsible for bringing an action for dismissal or suspension of sentence for criminal offences. From that position, he's aware. I can't imagine a judge dealing with the criminal court not reporting that to the college. That should be the normal course of action, I think. The pg is at least aware of this situation and of course has a position in it. Mrs Helder asked why the case law does not opt for an integrity agency or disciplinary committee such as the police. It is primarily up to the courts to work on their own integrity. I have given a number of examples which show that there is a lot of work going on, for example through reports and working groups. At the end of 2012, the courts decided to take the basic standards of the Public Sector Integrity Promotion Office (BIOS) as the starting point for the integrity policy. They have decided to develop and implement them for the justice system. The courts now have integrity committees. These correspond in practice to an agency integrity. I don't like to be judged by old judges as a disciplinary judge. Article 117 of the Constitution provides that judges can only be judged by a judicial college.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u111	Then I would like to hear from the Minister who the members of that Legal Integrity Committee are.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u112	Those are the members of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u113	I feel that this has put an end to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u114	In the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u115	In the first term. Since we have just taken stock of the reaction of Members to the government's intention to seek advice from the Council of State, this obviously has an impact on the progress of this consultation. I think we should suspend the debate pending the opinion of the Council of State and the appreciation of the government. Then we can hold the second term of this debate at a time to be determined. Can the Members agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u116	Yes, but for the Acts, I would just like to say that my amendment has now been amended. The amended amendment must therefore be submitted to the Council of State. Membership of a political party is not such a big deal for my group, and that is why I took that point out. Main relations should be entered in the register, but not membership of a political party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u117	Not at all, Mrs. Helder. That amended amendment has now gone around. We have taken note of it. I assume that this will be submitted in amended form to the Council of State for advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u118	Just one more point of order. In my view, we have not yet completed the first deadline, because the Minister still has to respond to the amendments following the opinion of the Council of State. I think we should keep the first term, which will be completed next time, and only then will we have the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u119	It is suggested here that this could also be done in writing. That was probably also the remark that Mr Recourt, who was just about to come to the interrupting microphone, had in mind. It seems to me the most logical thing to do in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u120	This could initially be done in writing, but if there is a need to ask questions about it, I can imagine that, following the written policy response, we will decide to continue the first period. I don't know if that's procedural. I find it difficult to decide on that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-27.u121	Well, technically, that's possible. Then you will have to come back to that again at the procedural meeting and you can decide to do so. With the suspension of the debate, I did not end the first time. Mr Van der Steur seems to agree with that. Apparently, he was already on his way to the minister to shake his hand or to one of the members of parliament. In any case, I hereby suspend the debate under the conditions I have just mentioned.
