ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. The Algemeen Dagblad reported this morning about a considerable shortage of district agents. District agents make an important contribution to the maintenance of public order and security, but also to the viability of society. Neighborhood cops are the eyes and ears of the police nearby. They can identify and prevent problems early, warn local residents about burglaries, keep in touch with schools about troubled young people and help fight radicalisation. In short, this local anchoring is indispensable for the National Police. That is why, in examining the cabinet plans for the National Police, the Chamber made the law that there should be at least one district agent per 5,000 inhabitants. That's a legal standard. Last year, the Chamber adopted a motion reminding the Minister of that legal standard. At the WHO in November, the quota for the district agents had not been reached. The Minister then asked for a respite until 1 July 2015. He was gonna make it, and that was confirmed by the Chief Constable. But what do we see in practice? In a number of regions, job vacancies have still not been filled. We are also getting signals that cops with other jobs are getting labeled "neighborhood cop" to boost the numbers. However, it is not a question of whether there are on average enough local agents in the country, but of whether there are enough local agents everywhere. In the legislative consultation we have just had on the annual report, the Minister said: wait for the reorganisation plan to be reviewed. But that's what the previous minister said in November, and we're still waiting. The situation is getting serious because half the police stations disappear. The question is where and when the public will be able to turn to the police. That's why I have the following questions. Does the Minister agree with the CDA Group that the district agent plays a crucial role in the organisation of the National Police? How many vacancies are currently available for district agents across the Netherlands? Is this only about the regions of the East Netherlands, Zeeland, West Brabant and North Holland, or is this also a problem in other regions? And how is it that the firm commitment of Minister Opstelten has not been fulfilled? What is the Minister going to do to get the number of district agents up and running, and what period is he going to set?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Oskam for the proper definition of the task of the district agent and the importance that we, as a society, attach to the district agent. They are indispensable for the service of the National Police. And indeed, as Mr Oskam says, they are very important in their role of public order and security, in terms of quality of life in neighbourhoods and, in particular, as the first point of contact for citizens. This morning's coverage in the Algemeen Dagblad, as well as in the Brabants Dagblad, partly corresponds to the findings of the Safety and Justice Inspectorate. She was asked by my predecessor to look specifically at the point of the district agents. This has been done in the context of the fourth report on the formation of the National Police, which I will send to the Chamber this summer in accordance with my predecessor's undertaking. This shows that a huge catch-up has been made with regard to the number of district agents, as my predecessor promised, but that on 1 July, so tomorrow, 100% will not be achieved. The additional efforts have certainly had their effect. As of July 1st we are at 95% of the standard. A number of points are therefore still under the standard. Mr Oskam already pointed to the North Holland, Zeeland, West Brabant and East Netherlands units. In these units an additional catch-up was made, precisely because of the problems that were known. A large number of vacancies have already been filled. There's only a small part left open. As a result, the differences between the units have been greatly reduced. Now the bottleneck is mostly in the next. Because of the reorganization of staff, there are agreements with the participation and the unions, which are again related to the fact that there will be police officers left who will not immediately take up office. They should be able to qualify for the function of district agent. To make that possible, we cannot fill out all the vacancies at the moment. This is expected to be settled by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u3	I am glad that the Minister also sees the importance of the district agent, but there is now another six months. It was planned to be settled by 2014. We said to the Minister at the time: it has to be done by April. Then he said, "Give me another three months." It's still not settled. Another important point of contention is the extent to which district agents actually do district agents work. Police often take the view: if they do 80% of district agents work and 20% are multi-enabled, then it's good. But in practice, the district agent is often used to fill the gaps in the schedules for emergency aid. How is the minister going to get the district agent to do what he's supposed to do? And in the Minister's view, what is an acceptable relationship for a district agent? What percentage does he really have to go into the neighborhood?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u4	First of all, I should like to comment on the final point. Mr Oskam concluded that it would not be settled. Because of the time I was not yet able to report that there are of course 100%-neighborhood agents available. These people do not have the function of district agent but operate as such. Each Dutchman who fills in his own zip code on the Police app or on www.police.nl I did it in the break prior to this question by chance.. will find a district agent with whom he can contact directly and who he can follow on Twitter. Everyone in his or her neighborhood therefore has a district agent, but that does not mean that it cannot now be the case that those in another neighborhood are also a district agent. Mr Oskam is right about that. Mr Oskam asked about the actual commitment. The norm is that a district agent should be able to operate 80% of his time for his neighborhood. It is then up to the local authority and the leadership within the units to send those base teams at this point. This is a choice that can be made within the neighbourhood teams and that can be made by the local unit. This choice must ultimately be addressed by local authority. I will do so if it turns out that this is not happening as we have agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u5	When a district cop has two neighborhoods, part of it is a bit of a paperwork. We have discussed this with the corps leadership and he says that the district agent is important in combating radicalisation, especially in large cities and in areas with MBO schools. Does the Minister recognise that importance and what is he going to do to shape it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u6	District agents play an important role in countering radicalisation with many other parties. That will not apply in every neighbourhood, by the way. Mr Oskam will agree with me. Not every neighborhood in the Netherlands requires the district agent to be afraid of radicalisation. This is the case in some neighbourhoods in the Netherlands. But that's not what the neighborhood cop does alone. He can't do that alone. The problem is far too big and too complicated for that. Within the framework of the approach to radicalisation and jihadism, a subject which is mainly the subject of my colleague from Social Affairs and Employment, there is an incredible amount of action, including the 38-point plan, in the approach against jihadism presented. In this, Mr Oskam can see exactly how the district agent fits as part of a very broad spectrum of preventive and repressive approaches to radicalisation and jihadism.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u7	It is not for nothing that the Police Act states that every 5,000 inhabitants must have a district police officer. We should not be given a semantic game of having functional district agents and district agents performing the function. I really don't think that's possible. We know, as a result of the Hoekstra Committee's report, how important the function of district agent is. I think it is too easy for the Minister to postpone the date again. We have been discussing this over and over again for many years, including in oral Question Time. That district agent should be there, should be able to do his job and should not close any gaps, for example in emergency services. Can the Minister show us how active he wants to be in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u8	I thought I'd explained where the problem was. 95% of the standard for district agents has been filled in. The additional vacancies are open in the most vulnerable regions. My predecessor has already done that. Now we have the problem that the placement advisory committees have to ensure that everyone actually gets a place. You need capacity for that that you need to be able to use for people who want to be a district cop. That process is under way and agreements have been made with the unions on this matter. As much as I would sometimes like to open agreements with the unions, this is not a good idea given the importance of the reorganisation of the workforce. That is why we will have to live with the reality we have on this issue for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u9	Thank you for your answers. That was the second question. Mr Ulenbelt had already asked a question. Apologies, Mrs Kooiman may, of course, ask a second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u10	I have an important question. The condition for the opposition to agree with the National Police was that that district cop should be there. Now there's another delay. There's gonna be a huge cut on the police. Half the police stations are closed. The neighborhood cop only gets extra duties on his plate. When is this minister going to make sure that the police are actually anchored in the neighborhoods? That is the wish of the Chamber but also of local authority. We're not supposed to just chop away everything with the blunt axe from the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u11	With at least 49,500 police officers, actually much more than that, i.e. a total of 65,000 employees, I cannot quite imagine that we are working with the blunt axe to chop into the police. The police are one of the largest employers in the Netherlands. So I don't recognize myself in the image Mrs. Kooiman sketches. What we are talking about here is very simple. We have entered into agreements with the unions and with the participation which mean that vacancies cannot be opened in all areas as I might wish. You can't do that until the end of the year. Then we know exactly what is going on with the placement of all people, in accordance with the agreements with participation and the unions. I know that Mrs Kooiman attaches great importance to this. Then we can make the implementation take place in order to reach that requirement 100%. Is that how I'd like it to be? No, I'd really like to do all that stuff right now. Do I understand why things are going the way they are? Yeah, because when you're finally declared redundant, it's kind of fun if you're able to become a neighborhood cop. That is a function which Mrs Kooiman, together with other members of this Chamber, rightly says is an essential condition for the successful operation of the National Police in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u12	We were recently in New York, where we saw the neighborhood agents there doing their job in a very special way. For example, they have a kind of consultation hour where everyone in the neighborhood really knows their district agent and also talks with the district agent about the problems, so that the district agent doesn't have to do a lot of things himself anymore. So, where the Minister is now working for a longer period of time to make things right, I ask him to use that time usefully by looking specifically at this task so that we can ensure that everyone in all neighbourhoods really knows: this is my neighborhood agent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u13	My impression is that this is already the case in large parts of the Netherlands. I'm just going to say it in public: anyone who's going to look at their own zip code on www.police.nl or on the police app will see who the district agent is and how to reach it. I just read my own neighborhood agent's tweets myself. I feel extremely close to that, despite the fact that I have met the person concerned a few times but have not yet approached every day. I don't need a consult myself, but I know there are. So I think Mrs Van Toorenburg is referring to her remark that it is necessary that the minister himself in New York goes to see what is going on with the district agents there. I would, of course, like to accept Mrs Van Toorenburg's invitation, but perhaps in the area of the National Police there will be a few other aspects in the coming weeks and months that are so urgent that I will deal with them before I go abroad to look at them personally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-6.u14	Thank you for your answers and thanks for coming to the Chamber.
